<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090227_10-K_edgar_data_59478_0000950152-09-001897_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1944549</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>598926</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>141532</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>890719</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>55</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950152-09-001897.hdr.sgml : 20090227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090227111934
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950152-09-001897
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		21
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LILLY ELI & CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000059478
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				350470950
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06351
		FILM NUMBER:		09640420

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		LILLY CORPORATE CTR
		STREET 2:		DROP CODE 1112
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46285
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3172762000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		LILLY CORPORATE CENTER
		STREET 2:		DROP CODE 1112
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46285

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 MeWgSwFDEDQzr/y7GwG6LLWle7npS0+3NOfnArBOxQD262nqZ3L3AV6jdai7kxpt
 VCHycUEmulDyOGN6ZvYDaQ==

 0000950152-09-001897.txt : 20090227

10-K
 1
 c49534e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

FORM 10-K 

United
    States 
    Securities and Exchange Commission 
    Washington, D.C. 20549

Form 10-K   

Annual report pursuant to
    Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934

for the fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2008

Commission file number
     001-06351 

Eli Lilly and Company  

An Indiana
    corporation          I.R.S.
    employer identification no. 35-0470950

Lilly
    Corporate Center, Indianapolis, Indiana 46285

(317) 276-2000 

Securities
    registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Securities
    registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
    None  

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
    requirements for the past
    90 days. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of Registrant s knowledge, in the definitive proxy
    statement incorporated by reference in Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large
    accelerated
    filer    
      
           Accelerated
    filer    

Non-accelerated 
    filer    
      
           Smaller
    reporting
    company    

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company
    as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act: Yes     No   

Aggregate market value of the common equity held by
    non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the
    common equity was last sold as of the last business day of the
    Registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
    (Common Stock): approximately $46,687,100,000

Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of
    February 13, 2009: 1,149,015,882

Portions of the Registrant s Proxy Statement to be filed on
    or about March 9, 2009 have been incorporated by reference
    into Part III of this report.

Part I

Item 1.    

Business

Eli Lilly and Company (the  Company  or
     Registrant , which may be referred to as
     we ,  us , or  our ) was
    incorporated in 1901 in Indiana to succeed to the drug
    manufacturing business founded in Indianapolis, Indiana, in 1876
    by Colonel Eli Lilly. We discover, develop, manufacture, and
    sell products in one significant business segment  
    pharmaceutical products. We also have an animal health business
    segment, whose operations are not material to our financial
    statements. We manufacture and distribute our products through
    owned or leased facilities in the United States, Puerto Rico,
    and 25 other countries. Our products are sold in approximately
    135 countries.

Most of the products we sell today were discovered or developed
    by our own scientists, and our success depends to a great extent
    on our ability to continue to discover and develop innovative
    new pharmaceutical products. We direct our research efforts
    primarily toward the search for products to prevent and treat
    human diseases. We also conduct research to find products to
    treat diseases in animals and to increase the efficiency of
    animal food production.

Products  

Our products include:

Neurosciences products  ,  our largest-selling
    product group, including:

Zyprexa   ,

     for the treatment of schizophrenia, acute mixed or manic
    episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, and bipolar
    maintenance

Cymbalta    ,

    for the treatment of major depressive disorder, diabetic
    peripheral neuropathic pain, generalized anxiety disorder, and
    in the United States for the management of fibromyalgia

Strattera   ,

     for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity
    disorder in children, adolescents and adults

Prozac   ,

     for the treatment of major depressive disorder,
    obsessive-compulsive disorder, bulimia nervosa and panic disorder

Symbyax   ,

     for the treatment of bipolar depression

Endocrinology products ,   including:

Humalog   

     ,  Humalog Mix
    75/25   ,

     and  Humalog Mix
    50/50   tm  ,

    for the treatment of diabetes

Humulin   ,

     for the treatment of diabetes

Byetta    ,

    for the treatment of type 2 diabetes

Actos   ,

     for the treatment of type 2 diabetes

Evista   ,

     for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis in
    postmenopausal women and for the reduction of the risk of
    invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis
    and postmenopausal women at high risk for invasive breast cancer

Forteo   ,

     for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women
    and men at high risk for fracture

Humatrope   ,

     for the treatment of human growth hormone deficiency and
    idiopathic short stature

Oncology products  ,  including:

Gemzar   ,

     for the treatment of pancreatic cancer; in combination with
    other agents, for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer,
    non-small cell lung cancer and advanced or recurrent ovarian
    cancer; and in the European Union for the treatment of bladder
    cancer

-1-

Alimta   ,

     for the first-line treatment, in combination with another
    agent, of non-small cell lung cancer for patients with
    non-squamous histology; for the second-line treatment of
    non-small cell lung cancer; and in combination with another
    agent, for the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma

Erbitux   ,

     a product of ImClone Systems Incorporated, joined our
    oncology product portfolio upon our acquisition of ImClone in
    late November 2008. Erbitux is indicated both as a single agent
    and with other chemotherapy agents for the treatment of certain
    types of colorectal cancers and as a single agent or in
    combination with radiation therapy for head and neck cancers.

Cardiovascular products , including:

Cialis   ,

     for the treatment of erectile dysfunction

Efient   ,

     for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients
    with acute coronary syndromes undergoing percutaneous coronary
    invention, was approved in February 2009 in the European
    Union. The drug is undergoing final regulatory review in the
    United States, where it would be marketed as
     Effient    .

ReoPro   ,

     for use as an adjunct to percutaneous coronary intervention
    ( PCI ), including patients undergoing angioplasty,
    atherectomy or stent placement

Xigris   ,

     for the treatment of adults with severe sepsis at high risk
    of death

Animal health products , including:

Rumensin   ,

     a cattle feed additive that improves feed efficiency and
    growth and also controls and prevents coccidiosis

Tylan   ,

     an antibiotic used to control certain diseases in cattle,
    swine, and poultry

Micotil    ,

     Pulmotil   ,

     and  Pulmotil
    AC   ,

     antibiotics used to treat respiratory disease in cattle,
    swine, and poultry, respectively

Paylean   

     and
     Optaflexx   ,

     leanness and performance enhancers for swine and cattle,
    respectively

Posilac    ,

    a protein supplement to improve milk productivity in dairy cows.
    We acquired the worldwide rights to Posilac from Monsanto
    Company in August 2008.

Coban   ,

    Monteban   ,

     and
     Maxiban    ,

    anticoccidial agents for use in poultry

Apralan    ,

    an antibiotic used to control enteric infections in calves and
    swine

Surmax   

     (sold as
     Maxus   

     in some countries), a performance enhancer for swine and
    poultry

Elector    ,

    a parasiticide for use on cattle and premises

Two products for dogs:
     Comfortis   tm  ,

    the first FDA-approved, chewable tablet that kills fleas and
    prevents flea infestations on dogs; and
     Reconcile   tm  ,

    for treatment of canine separation anxiety in conjunction with
    behavior modification training

Other pharmaceuticals , including:

Vancocin   

     HCl, used primarily to treat staphylococcal infections

Ceclor   ,

     for the treatment of a wide range of bacterial infections.

Marketing  

We sell most of our products worldwide. We adapt our marketing
    methods and product emphasis in various countries to meet local
    needs.

-2-

Pharmaceuticals  
    United States  

In the United States, we distribute pharmaceutical products
    principally through independent wholesale distributors, with
    some sales directly to pharmacies. Our marketing policy is
    designed to assure that products and relevant medical
    information are immediately available to physicians, pharmacies,
    hospitals, public and private payers, and appropriate health
    care professionals throughout the country. Three wholesale
    distributors in the United States   AmerisourceBergen
    Corporation, Cardinal Health, Inc., and McKesson Corporation
      each accounted for between 12 and 16 percent
    of our worldwide consolidated net sales in 2008. No other
    distributor accounted for more than 10 percent of
    consolidated net sales. We also sell pharmaceutical products
    directly to the United States government and other
    manufacturers, but those sales are not material.

We promote our major pharmaceutical products in the United
    States through sales representatives who call upon physicians
    and other health care professionals. We advertise in medical and
    drug journals, distribute literature and samples of certain
    products to physicians, and exhibit at medical meetings. In
    addition, we advertise certain products directly to consumers in
    the United States and we maintain web sites with information
    about all our major products. Divisions of our sales force are
    assigned to therapeutic areas, such as neuroscience, diabetes,
    osteoporosis, and oncology. We supplement our employee sales
    force with contract sales organizations as appropriate to
    leverage our own resources and the strengths of our partners in
    various markets.

Large purchasers of pharmaceuticals, such as managed-care
    groups, government agencies, and long-term care institutions,
    account for a significant portion of total pharmaceutical
    purchases in the United States. We maintain special business
    groups to service wholesalers, managed-care organizations,
    government and long-term care institutions, hospitals, and
    certain retail pharmacies. In response to competitive pressures,
    we have entered into arrangements with a number of these
    organizations providing for discounts or rebates on one or more
    Lilly products.

Pharmaceuticals  
    Outside the United States  

Outside the United States, we promote our pharmaceutical
    products primarily through sales representatives. While the
    products marketed vary from country to country, neuroscience
    products constitute the largest single group in total sales.
    Distribution patterns vary from country to country. In most
    countries, we maintain our own sales organizations. In some
    countries, however, we market our products through independent
    distributors.

Pharmaceutical
    Marketing Collaborations  

We market certain of our significant products in collaboration
    with other pharmaceutical companies:

Cymbalta is co-promoted in the United States by Quintiles
    Transnational Corp. and is co-promoted or co-marketed outside
    the U.S. (except Japan) by Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH.

Evista is marketed in major European markets by Daiichi Sankyo
    Europe GmbH, a subsidiary of Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd. of Japan.

We co-promote Byetta with Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the
    United States and Puerto Rico, and we have exclusive marketing
    rights in other territories.

Erbitux is marketed in North America by Bristol-Myers Squibb. We
    co-promote Erbitux in North America. Outside North America,
    Erbitux is commercialized by Merck KGaA. We receive royalties
    from Bristol-Myers Squibb and Merck KGaA.

Efient will be
     co-promoted 
    with us in major European markets by Daiichi Sankyo Europe GmbH.
    Assuming regulatory approvals, Daiichi Sankyo will also
     co-promote 
    the product with us in the United States, Brazil, Mexico, China
    and several other Asian countries. Daiichi Sanko retains sole
    marketing rights in Japan, and we retain sole marketing rights
    in Canada, Australia, Russia and certain other
    countries.  

-3-

Animal
    Health Products  

Our Elanco animal health business unit employs field salespeople
    throughout the United States to market animal health products.
    Elanco also has an extensive sales force outside the United
    States. Elanco sells its products primarily to wholesale
    distributors.

Competition  

Our pharmaceutical products compete with products manufactured
    by many other companies in highly competitive markets throughout
    the world. Our animal health products compete on a worldwide
    basis with products of animal health care companies as well as
    pharmaceutical, chemical, and other companies that operate
    animal health divisions or subsidiaries.

Important competitive factors include product efficacy, safety,
    and ease of use, price and demonstrated cost-effectiveness,
    marketing effectiveness, service, and research and development
    of new products and processes. If competitors introduce new
    products or delivery systems with therapeutic or cost
    advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price
    reductions, decreased volume of sales, or both. Most new
    products that we introduce must compete with other products
    already on the market or products that are later developed by
    competitors. Manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals invest far
    less in research and development than research-based
    pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products
    significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a
    branded pharmaceutical loses its market exclusivity, it normally
    faces intense price competition from generic forms of the
    product. In many countries outside the United States, patent
    protection is weak or nonexistent and we must compete with
    generic versions of our products. Increasingly, to obtain
    favorable reimbursement and formulary positioning with
    government payers, managed care and pharmacy benefits management
    organizations, we must demonstrate that our products offer not
    only medical benefits but also cost advantages as compared with
    other forms of care.

We believe our long-term competitive position depends upon our
    success in discovering and developing (either alone or in
    collaboration with others) innovative, cost-effective products
    that serve unmet medical needs, together with our ability to
    continuously improve the productivity of our discovery,
    development, manufacturing, marketing and support operations in
    a highly competitive environment. There can be no assurance that
    our research and development efforts will result in commercially
    successful products or that our products or processes will not
    become uncompetitive from time to time as a result of products
    or processes developed by our competitors.

Patents,
    Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights  

Overview  

Intellectual property protection is, in the aggregate, material
    to our ability to successfully commercialize our life sciences
    innovations. We own, have applied for, or are licensed under, a
    large number of patents, both in the United States and in other
    countries, relating to products, product uses, formulations, and
    manufacturing processes. There is no assurance that the patents
    we are seeking will be granted or that the patents we have been
    granted would be found valid and enforceable if challenged.
    Moreover, patents relating to particular products, uses,
    formulations, or processes do not preclude other manufacturers
    from employing alternative processes or from marketing
    alternative products or formulations that might successfully
    compete with our patented products. In addition, from time to
    time, competitors or other third parties assert claims that our
    activities infringe patents or other intellectual property
    rights held by them, or allege a third-party right of ownership
    in our existing intellectual property.

Outside the United States, the adequacy and effectiveness of
    intellectual property protection for pharmaceuticals varies
    widely. Under the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property
    Agreement (TRIPs) administered by the World Trade Organization
    (WTO), over 140 countries have now agreed to provide
    non-discriminatory protection for most pharmaceutical inventions
    and to assure that adequate and effective rights are available
    to all patent owners. Because of TRIPs transition provisions,
    dispute resolution mechanisms, and substantive

-4-

limitations, it is still too soon to assess when and how much,
    if at all, we will benefit commercially from these changes.

When a product patent expires, the patent holder often loses
    effective market exclusivity for the product. This can result in
    a severe and rapid decline in sales of the formerly patented
    product, particularly in the United States. However, in
    some cases the innovator company may achieve exclusivity beyond
    the expiry of the product patent through manufacturing trade
    secrets, later-expiring patents on methods of use or
    formulations, or data-based exclusivity that may be available
    under pharmaceutical regulatory laws.

Some of our products, including Erbitux, Forteo, ReoPro, and
    Xigris, are biological products, or biologics. Additionally,
    many of the potential products in our research pipeline are
    biologics. Currently, generic versions of biologics cannot be
    approved under U.S. law. Competitors seeking approval of
    biologics must file their own safety and efficacy data, and
    address the challenges of biologics manufacturing, which
    involves more complex and costly processes than those of
    traditional pharmaceutical operations. However, the law could
    change in the future to allow generic biologics. Even in the
    absence of new legislation, the U.S. Food and Drug
    Administration (FDA) is taking steps toward allowing generic
    versions of certain biologics.

Our
    Intellectual Property Portfolio  

We consider intellectual property protection for certain
    products, processes, and uses   particularly those
    products discussed below   to be important to our
    operations. For many of our products, in addition to the
    compound patent we hold other patents on manufacturing
    processes, formulations, or uses that may extend exclusivity
    beyond the expiration of the product patent.

The most relevant U.S. patent protection, together with
    expected expiration, for our major marketed products is as
    follows:

Alimta  is protected by a compound patent (2016).

Byetta  is protected by a patent covering its use in
    treating type 2 diabetes (2017).

Cialis  is protected by compound and use patents (2017).

Cymbalta  is protected by a compound patent (2013).

Evista  is protected by patents on the treatment and
    prevention of osteoporosis (2012 and 2014), and its dosage form
    (2017). Evista for use in breast cancer risk reduction is
    protected by orphan drug exclusivity (2014).

Gemzar  is protected by a compound patent (2010) and
    a patent covering its antineoplastic use (2013).

Humalog  is protected by a compound patent (2013).

Strattera  is protected by a patent covering its use in
    treating attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (2016).

Zyprexa  is protected by a compound patent (2011).

Worldwide, we sell all of our major products under trademarks
    that we consider in the aggregate to be important to our
    operations. Trademark protection varies throughout the world,
    with protection continuing in some countries as long as the mark
    is used, and in other countries as long as it is registered.
    Registrations are normally for fixed but renewable terms.

Patent
    Licenses  

Most of our important products were discovered in our own
    laboratories and are not subject to significant license
    agreements. Two of our larger products, Cialis and Alimta, are
    subject to patent assignments or licenses granted to us by
    others.

The compound patent for Cialis is the subject of a license
    agreement with Glaxo SmithKline which assigns to us exclusively
    all rights in the compound. The agreement calls for royalties of
    a single-digit percentage

-5-

of net sales. The agreement is not subject to termination by
    Glaxo for any reason other than a material breach by Lilly of
    the royalty obligation, after a substantial cure period.

The compound patent for Alimta is the subject of a license
    agreement with Princeton University, granting us an irrevocable
    exclusive worldwide license to the compound patents for the
    lives of the patents in the respective territories. The
    agreement calls for royalties of a single-digit percentage of
    net sales. The agreement is not subject to termination by
    Princeton for any reason other than a material breach by Lilly
    of the royalty obligation, after a substantial cure period.
    Alimta is also the subject of a worldwide, nonexclusive license
    to certain compound and process patents owned by Takeda
    Pharmaceutical Company Limited. The agreement calls for
    royalties of a single-digit percentage of net sales in countries
    covered by a relevant patent. The agreement is subject to
    termination for material default and failure to cure by Lilly
    and in the event that Lilly becomes bankrupt or insolvent.

Patent
    Challenges  

In the United States, the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term
    Restoration Act of 1984, commonly known as
     Hatch-Waxman,  made a complex set of changes to both
    patent and new-drug-approval laws. Before Hatch-Waxman, no drug
    could be approved without providing the FDA complete safety and
    efficacy studies,  i.e. , a complete New Drug Application
    (NDA). Hatch-Waxman authorizes the FDA to approve generic
    versions of innovative pharmaceuticals (other than biologics)
    without such information by filing an Abbreviated New Drug
    Application (ANDA). In an ANDA, the generic manufacturer must
    demonstrate only  bioequivalence  between the generic
    version and the NDA-approved drug   not safety and
    efficacy.

Absent a patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an ANDA until
    after the innovator s patents expire. However, after the
    innovator has marketed its product for four years, a generic
    manufacturer may file an ANDA alleging that one or more of the
    patents listed in the innovator s NDA are invalid or not
    infringed. This allegation is commonly known as a
     Paragraph IV certification.  The innovator must
    then file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect its
    patents. The FDA is then prohibited from approving the generic
    company s application for a 30- to
     42-month 
    period (which can be shortened or extended by the trial court
    judge hearing the patent challenge). If one or more of the
    NDA-listed patents are challenged, the first filer of a
    Paragraph IV certification may be entitled to a
     180-day 
    period of market exclusivity over all other generic
    manufacturers.

In recent years, generic manufacturers have used
    Paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge
    patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and we
    expect this trend to continue. In addition, generic companies
    have shown an increasing willingness to launch  at
    risk,  i.e., after receiving ANDA approval but before final
    resolution of their patent challenge. We are currently in
    litigation with numerous generic manufacturers arising from
    their Paragraph IV certifications on Alimta, Cymbalta,
    Evista, Gemzar, and Strattera. For more information on these,
    see Part II, Item 7,  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis   Legal and Regulatory
    Matters. 

Outside the United States, the legal doctrines and processes by
    which pharmaceutical patents can be challenged vary widely. In
    recent years, we have experienced an increase in patent
    challenges from generic manufacturers in many countries outside
    the United States, and we expect this trend to continue. For
    more information on significant patent challenges outside the
    United States, see Part II, Item 7,
     Management s Discussion and Analysis  
    Legal and Regulatory Matters. 

Government
    Regulation  

Regulation
    of Our Operations  

Our operations are regulated extensively by numerous national,
    state and local agencies. The lengthy process of laboratory and
    clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing development, and
    regulatory review necessary for required governmental approvals
    is extremely costly and can significantly delay product
    introductions in a given market. Promotion, marketing,
    manufacturing, and distribution of pharmaceutical and animal
    health products are extensively regulated in all major world
    markets. We are required to conduct extensive post-marketing
    surveillance of the safety of the products we sell. In addition,
    our operations are subject to complex

-6-

federal, state, local, and foreign laws and regulations
    concerning the environment, occupational health and safety, and
    privacy. The laws and regulations affecting the manufacture and
    sale of current products and the discovery, development and
    introduction of new products will continue to require
    substantial scientific and technical effort, time, and expense
    and significant capital investment.

Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States.
    Pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the FDA
    has jurisdiction over all of our products and administers
    requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness,
    manufacturing, quality control, distribution, labeling,
    marketing, advertising, dissemination of information and
    post-marketing surveillance of our pharmaceutical products. The
    FDA, along with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA),
    also regulates our animal health products. The
    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency also regulates some
    animal health products. In 2007, Congress passed the Food and
    Drug Administration Amendments Act (FDAAA) of 2007, which
    imposes additional requirements for drug development and
    commercialization and provides the FDA with further authorities
    and resources, particularly in the area of drug safety.

The FDA extensively regulates all aspects of manufacturing
    quality under its current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP)
    regulations. In recent years, we have made, and we continue to
    make, substantial investments of capital and operating expenses
    to implement comprehensive, company-wide improvements in our
    manufacturing, product and process development, and quality
    operations to ensure sustained cGMP compliance. However, in the
    event we fail to adhere to cGMP requirements in the future, we
    could be subject to interruptions in production, fines and
    penalties, and delays in new product approvals.

Outside the United States, our products and operations are
    subject to similar regulatory requirements, notably by the
    European Medicines Agency (EMEA) in the European Union and the
    Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) in Japan. Specific
    regulatory requirements vary from country to country.

The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of
    pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which
    manufacturers interact with purchasers and prescribers, are
    subject to various other federal and state laws, including the
    federal anti-kickback statute and the False Claims Act and state
    laws governing kickbacks, false claims, unfair trade practices,
    and consumer protection. These laws are administered by, among
    others, the Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector
    General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the
    Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Personnel Management and
    state attorneys general. Over the past several years, the FDA,
    the Department of Justice, and many of these other agencies have
    increased their enforcement activities with respect to
    pharmaceutical companies and increased the inter-agency
    coordination of enforcement activities. Over this period,
    several claims brought by these agencies against Lilly and other
    companies under these and other laws have resulted in corporate
    criminal sanctions and very substantial civil settlements. See
    Part I, Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  and
    Part II, Item 7,  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis   Legal and Regulatory
    Matters,  for information about currently pending and
    recently resolved marketing and promotional practices
    investigations involving Lilly, including information regarding
    a Corporate Integrity Agreement entered into by Lilly in
    connection with the resolution of a U.S. federal marketing
    practices investigation and certain related state investigations
    involving Zyprexa.

It is possible that we could become subject to additional
    administrative and legal proceedings and actions, which could
    include claims for civil penalties (including treble damages
    under the False Claims Act), criminal sanctions, and
    administrative remedies, including exclusion from federal health
    care programs. It is possible that an adverse outcome in pending
    or future actions could have a material adverse impact on our
    consolidated results of operations, liquidity, and financial
    position.

Regulations
    Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement  

In the United States, we are required to provide rebates to
    state governments on their purchases of certain of our products
    under state Medicaid programs. Other cost containment measures
    have been adopted or proposed by federal, state, and local
    government entities that provide or pay for health care. In most
    international markets, we operate in an environment of
    government-mandated cost containment programs, which may include
    price controls, reference pricing, discounts and rebates,
    restrictions on physician prescription levels, restrictions on
    reimbursement, compulsory licenses, health economic assessments,
    and generic substitution.

-7-

In the U.S., the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
    Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA), took effect in 2006, providing
    a prescription drug benefit for seniors under the Medicare
    program, known as Medicare Part D. Pricing to manufacturers
    for drugs covered by the program is currently established
    through competitive negotiations between the manufacturers and
    private payers. However, various measures have been proposed
    that would allow or require the federal government to negotiate
    Medicare Part D drug prices directly with manufacturers. In
    addition, various proposals have been introduced that would
    increase the rebates we pay to the government. See Part II,
    Item 7,  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis   Executive Overview   Legal,
    Regulatory, and Other Matters,  for more discussion of MMA
    and other federal healthcare cost containment measures. At the
    state level, budget pressures are causing various states to
    impose cost-control measures such as higher rebates and more
    restrictive formularies.

International operations are also generally subject to extensive
    price and market regulations, and there are many proposals for
    additional cost-containment measures, including proposals that
    would directly or indirectly impose additional price controls,
    limit access to or reimbursement for our products, or reduce the
    value of our intellectual property protection.

We cannot predict the extent to which our business may be
    affected by these or other potential future legislative or
    regulatory developments. However, we expect that pressures on
    pharmaceutical pricing will become more severe.

Research
    and Development  

Our commitment to research and development dates back more than
    100 years. Our research and development activities are
    responsible for the discovery and development of most of the
    products we offer today. We invest heavily in research and
    development because we believe it is critical to our long-term
    competitiveness. At the end of 2008, we employed approximately
    8,600 people in pharmaceutical and animal health research
    and development activities, including a substantial number of
    physicians, scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees,
    and highly skilled technical personnel. Our research and
    development expenses were $3.13 billion in 2006,
    $3.49 billion in 2007, and $3.84 billion in 2008.

Our pharmaceutical research and development focuses on four
    therapeutic categories: central nervous system and related
    diseases; endocrine diseases, including diabetes, obesity and
    musculoskeletal disorders; cancer; and cardiovascular diseases.
    However, we remain opportunistic, selectively pursuing promising
    leads in other therapeutic areas. We are actively engaged in a
    strong biotechnology research program including therapeutic
    proteins, antibodies and antisense oligonucleotides as well as
    genomics (the development of therapeutics through identification
    of disease-causing genes and their cellular function),
    biomarkers, and targeted therapeutics. In addition to
    discovering and developing new chemical entities, we look for
    ways to expand the value of existing products through new uses,
    formulations and therapeutic approaches that can provide
    additional benefits to patients. We also conduct research in
    animal health, including animal nutrition and physiology,
    control of parasites, and veterinary medicine (both food and
    companion animal).

To supplement our internal efforts, we collaborate with others,
    including educational institutions and research-based
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and we contract with
    others for the performance of research in their facilities. We
    use the services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools, and
    other research organizations worldwide to conduct clinical
    trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of our
    products. We actively seek out investments in external research
    and technologies that hold the promise to complement and
    strengthen our own research efforts. These investments can take
    many forms, including licensing arrangements, co-development and
    co-marketing agreements, co-promotion arrangements, joint
    ventures, and acquisitions.

Drug development is time-consuming, expensive, and risky. On
    average, only one out of many thousands of chemical compounds
    discovered by researchers proves to be both medically effective
    and safe enough to become an approved medicine. The process from
    discovery to regulatory approval can take 12 to 15 years or
    longer. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process,
    and even late-stage drug candidates sometimes fail to receive
    regulatory approval or commercial success. Even after approval
    and launch of a product, we expend considerable resources on
    post-marketing surveillance and clinical studies. We believe our
    investments in research, both internally and in collaboration
    with others, have been rewarded by the number of new

-8-

compounds and new indications for existing compounds that we
    have in all stages of development. Among our new investigational
    compounds in the later stages of development are potential
    therapies for acute coronary syndromes, diabetes, osteoporosis,
    and cancer. Further, we are studying many other drug candidates
    in the earlier stages of development, including compounds
    targeting cancers, diabetes, obesity, musculoskeletal disorders,
    lipid abnormalities, Alzheimer s disease, schizophrenia,
    multiple sclerosis, depression, sleep disorders, pain and
    migraine, attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD),
    alcoholism, and autoimmune disorders including rheumatoid
    arthritis. At present we have approximately 60 drug candidates
    across all stages of clinical development. We are also
    developing new uses and formulations for many of these compounds
    as well as our currently marketed products, such as Alimta,
    Byetta, Cialis, Cymbalta, Erbitux, Forteo, Gemzar, and Zyprexa.

Raw
    Materials and Product Supply  

Most of the principal materials we use in our manufacturing
    operations are available from more than one source. We obtain
    certain raw materials principally from only one source. In
    addition, Byetta is manufactured by third-party suppliers to
    Amylin. In the event one of these suppliers was unable to
    provide the materials or product, we generally have sufficient
    inventory to supply the market until an alternative source of
    supply can be implemented. However, in the event of an extended
    failure of a supplier, it is possible that we could experience
    an interruption in supply until we established new sources or,
    in some cases, implemented alternative processes.

Our primary bulk manufacturing occurs at three sites in Indiana
    as well as locations in Ireland, Puerto Rico, and the United
    Kingdom. Finishing operations, including labeling and packaging,
    take place at a number of sites throughout the world.

We seek to design and operate our manufacturing facilities and
    maintain inventory in a way that will allow us to meet all
    expected product demand while maintaining flexibility to
    reallocate manufacturing capacity to improve efficiency and
    respond to changes in supply and demand. However, pharmaceutical
    production processes are complex, highly regulated, and vary
    widely from product to product. Shifting or adding manufacturing
    capacity can be a very lengthy process requiring significant
    capital expenditures and regulatory approvals. Accordingly, if
    we were to experience extended plant shutdowns or extraordinary
    unplanned increases in demand, we could experience an
    interruption in supply of certain products or product shortages
    until production could be resumed or expanded.

Quality
    Assurance  

Our success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in
    the quality of our products and in the integrity of the data
    that support their safety and effectiveness. Product quality
    arises from a total commitment to quality in all parts of our
    operations, including research and development, purchasing,
    facilities planning, manufacturing, and distribution. We have
    implemented quality-assurance procedures relating to the quality
    and integrity of scientific information and production processes.

Control of production processes involves rigid specifications
    for ingredients, equipment, facilities, manufacturing methods,
    packaging materials, and labeling. We perform tests at various
    stages of production processes and on the final product to
    assure that the product meets all regulatory requirements and
    our standards. These tests may involve chemical and physical
    chemical analyses, microbiological testing, testing in animals,
    or a combination. Additional assurance of quality is provided by
    a corporate quality-assurance group that monitors existing
    pharmaceutical and animal health manufacturing procedures and
    systems in the parent company, subsidiaries and affiliates, and
    third-party suppliers.

-9-

Executive
    Officers of the Company  

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our
    executive officers. All executive officers except Mr. Azar
    have been employed by the Company in executive positions during
    the last five years.

The term of office for each executive officer expires on the
    date of the annual meeting of the Board of Directors, to be held
    on April 20, 2009, or on the date his or her successor is
    chosen and qualified. No director or executive officer of the
    Company has a  family relationship  with any other
    director or executive officer of the Company, as that term is
    defined for purposes of this disclosure requirement. There is no
    understanding between any executive officer and any other person
    pursuant to which the executive officer was selected.

Name

Age

Offices

John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D. 

55

Chairman (since January 2009), President (since October 2005),
    Chief Executive Officer (since April 2008) and a Director

Robert A. Armitage

60

Senior Vice President and General Counsel (since January 2003)

Alex M. Azar II

41

Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Communications
    (since June 2007). From 2005 to 2007, Azar served as Deputy
    Secretary of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services
    (HHS). From 2001 to 2005, he served HHS as General Counsel.

Bryce D. Carmine

57

Executive Vice President, Marketing and Sales (since April 2008)

Frank M. Deane, Ph.D. 

59

President, Manufacturing Operations (since June 2007)

Anthony J. Murphy, Ph.D. 

58

Senior Vice President, Human Resources (since June 2005)

Steven M. Paul, M.D. 

58

Executive Vice President, Science and Technology (since July
    2003)

Derica W. Rice

44

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (since May
    2006)

Gino Santini

52

Senior Vice President, Corporate Strategy and Business
    Development (since June 2007)

Employees  

At the end of 2008, we employed approximately
    40,500 people, including approximately
    19,600 employees outside the United States. A substantial
    number of our employees have long records of continuous service.

Financial
    Information Relating to Business Segments and Classes of
    Products  

You can find financial information relating to our business
    segments and classes of products in Part II, Item 8 of
    this
     Form 10-K, 
     Segment Information.  That information is
    incorporated here by reference.

The relative contribution of any particular product to our
    consolidated net sales changes from year to year. This is due to
    several factors, including the introduction of new products by
    us and by other manufacturers and the introduction of generic
    pharmaceuticals upon patent expirations. In addition, margins
    vary for our different products due to various factors,
    including differences in the cost to manufacture and market the
    products, the value of the products to the marketplace, and
    government restrictions on pricing and reimbursement. Our major
    product sales are generally not seasonal.

Financial
    Information Relating to Foreign and Domestic
    Operations  

You can find financial information relating to foreign and
    domestic operations in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K, 
     Segment Information.  That information is
    incorporated here by reference.

-10-

To date, our overall operations abroad have not been
    significantly deterred by local restrictions on the transfer of
    funds from branches and subsidiaries located abroad, including
    the availability of dollar exchange. We cannot predict what
    effect these restrictions or the other risks inherent in foreign
    operations, including possible nationalization, might have on
    our future operations or what other restrictions may be imposed
    in the future. In addition, changing currency values can either
    favorably or unfavorably affect our financial position and
    results of operations. We actively manage foreign exchange risk
    through various hedging techniques including the use of foreign
    currency contracts.

Available
    Information on Our Web Site  

We make available through our company web site, free of charge,
    our company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically
    file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. The reports we make
    available include our annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    proxy statements, registration statements, and any amendments to
    those documents. The company web site link to our SEC filings is
      http://investor.lilly.com/edgar.cfm  .

In addition, the Corporate Governance portion of our web site
    includes our corporate governance guidelines, board and
    committee information (including committee charters), and our
    articles of incorporation and by-laws. The link to our corporate
    governance information is
      http://investor.lilly.com/corp-gov.cfm  .

We will provide paper copies of our SEC filings and corporate
    governance documents free of charge upon request to the
    company s secretary at the address listed on the front of
    this
     Form 10-K. 

Item 1A:    

Risk
    Factors; Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking
    Statements

In addition to the other information contained in this
     Form 10-K, 
    the following risk factors should be considered carefully in
    evaluating our company. It is possible that our business,
    financial condition, liquidity or results of operations could be
    materially adversely affected by any of these risks.

We have made certain forward-looking statements in this
     Form 10-K, 
    and company spokespeople may make such statements in the future
    based on then-current expectations of management. Where
    possible, we try to identify forward-looking statements by using
    such words as  expect,   plan, 
     will,   estimate,   forecast, 
     project,   believe, 
     anticipate,  and similar expressions. Forward-looking
    statements do not relate strictly to historical or current
    facts. They are likely to address our growth strategy, sales of
    current and anticipated products, financial results, the results
    of our research and development programs, the status of product
    approvals, and the outcome of contingencies such as litigation
    and investigations. All forward-looking statements made by us
    are subject to risks and uncertainties, including those
    summarized below.

Pharmaceutical research and development is very costly and
    highly uncertain.   There are many difficulties and
    uncertainties inherent in new product research and development
    and the introduction of new products. There is a high rate of
    failure inherent in the research to develop new drugs. To bring
    a pharmaceutical compound from the discovery phase to market
    typically takes a decade or more and costs over $1 billion.
    Failure can occur at any point in the process, including late in
    the process after significant funds have been invested. As a
    result, there is a significant risk that funds invested in
    research programs will not generate financial returns. New
    product candidates that appear promising in development may fail
    to reach the market or may have only limited commercial success
    because of efficacy or safety concerns, inability to obtain
    necessary regulatory approvals, limited scope of approved uses,
    difficulty or excessive costs to manufacture, or infringement of
    the patents or intellectual property rights of others. Delays
    and uncertainties in the FDA approval process and the approval
    processes in other countries can result in delays in product
    launches and lost market opportunity. In recent years, FDA
    review times have increased substantially and fewer new drugs
    are being approved. In addition, it can be very difficult to
    predict sales growth rates of new products.

-11-

We face intense competition.   We compete with
    large number of multinational pharmaceutical companies,
    biotechnology companies and generic pharmaceutical companies. To
    compete successfully, we must continue to deliver to the market
    innovative, cost-effective products that meet important medical
    needs. Our product sales can be adversely affected by the
    introduction by competitors of branded products that are
    perceived as superior by the marketplace, by generic versions of
    our branded products, and by generic versions of other products
    in the same therapeutic class as our branded products. See
    Item 1,  Business   Competition,  for
    more details.

Our long-term success depends on intellectual property
    protection .  Our long-term success depends on our
    ability to continually discover, develop, and commercialize
    innovative new pharmaceutical products. Without strong
    intellectual property protection, we would be unable to generate
    the returns necessary to support the enormous investments in
    research and development, capital, and other expenditures
    required to bring new drugs to the market. Several major
    products will lose intellectual property protection in the
    U.S. in the next decade beginning in late 2011. Several of
    these products will lose intellectual property protection in
    various countries outside the U.S. even before then. See
    Item 1,  Business   Patents, Trademarks,
    and Other Intellectual Property Protection,  for more
    details.

Intellectual property protection varies throughout the world and
    is subject to change over time. In the U.S., the Hatch-Waxman
    Act provides generic companies powerful incentives to seek to
    invalidate our patents; as a result, we expect that our
    U.S. patents on major products will be routinely
    challenged, and there can be no assurance that our patents will
    be upheld. See Item 1,  Business   Patents,
    Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Protection, 
    for more details. We are increasingly facing generic
    manufacturer challenges to our patents outside the U.S. as well.
    In addition, competitors or other third parties may claim that
    our activities infringe patents or other intellectual property
    rights held by them. If successful, such claims could result in
    our being unable to market a product in a particular territory
    or being required to pay damages for past infringement or
    royalties on future sales.

Our business is subject to increasing government price
    controls and other health care cost containment
    measures.   Government health care cost-containment
    measures can significantly affect our sales and profitability.
    In many countries outside the United States, government agencies
    strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which
    our products are sold. In the United States, we are subject to
    substantial pricing pressures from state Medicaid programs and
    private insurance programs and pharmacy benefit managers,
    including those operating under the Medicare Part D
    pharmaceutical benefit. Many federal and state legislative
    proposals would further negatively affect our pricing
     and/or 
    reimbursement for our products. We expect pricing pressures from
    both governments and private payers inside and outside the
    United States to become more severe. See Item I,
     Business   Regulations Affecting Pharmaceutical
    Pricing and Reimbursement,  for more details.

Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or
    efficacy concerns.   Unexpected safety or efficacy
    concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, leading to
    product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as
    costly product liability claims.

We depend on key products for most of our revenues, cash
    flows, and earnings.   Zyprexa sales of
    $4.70 billion represented 23 percent of our revenues
    in 2008, and Cymbalta sales of $2.70 billion constituted
    13 percent of our 2008 revenues. Six other
    products   Humalog, Gemzar, Cialis, Alimta, Evista,
    and Humulin   each contributed more than
    $1 billion in revenues in 2008. If these or other key
    products were to become subject to a problem such as loss of
    patent protection, materially adverse changes in prescription
    growth rates, unexpected side effects, regulatory proceedings,
    material product liability litigation, publicity affecting
    doctor or patient confidence, or pressure from competitive
    products, the adverse impact on our revenues, cash flows and
    earnings could be significant.

Regulatory compliance problems could be damaging to the
    company.   The marketing, promotional, and pricing
    practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner
    in which manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers,
    and patients, are subject to extensive regulation. Many
    companies, including Lilly, have been subject to claims related
    to these practices asserted by federal and state governmental
    authorities and private payers and consumers. These claims have
    resulted in substantial expense and other

-12-

significant consequences to the company. It is possible other
    products could become subject to investigation and that the
    outcome of these matters could include criminal charges and
    fines, penalties, or other monetary or nonmonetary remedies. In
    particular, See Item 7,  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis   Legal and Regulatory Matters, 
    for the discussions of the U.S. sales and marketing
    practices investigations. In addition, regulatory issues
    concerning compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice
    (cGMP) regulations for pharmaceutical products can lead to
    product recalls and seizures, interruption of production leading
    to product shortages, and delays in the approvals of new
    products pending resolution of the cGMP issues. We are now
    operating under a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office
    of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human
    Services that requires us to maintain comprehensive compliance
    programs governing our research, manufacturing, and sales and
    marketing of pharmaceuticals. Material failures to comply with
    the Agreement could result in severe sanctions to the company.
    See Item 1,  Business   Regulation of our
    Operations,  for more details.

We face many product liability claims today, and future
    claims will be largely self-insured.   We are
    subject to a substantial number of product liability claims
    involving primarily Zyprexa, DES, and thimerosal, and because of
    the nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible that we
    could become subject to large numbers of product liability
    claims for other products in the future. See Item 7,
     Management s Discussion and Analysis  
    Legal and Regulatory Matters,  and Item 3,  Legal
    Proceedings,  for more information on our current product
    liability litigation. In the past few years, we have experienced
    difficulties in obtaining product liability insurance due to a
    very restrictive insurance market. Therefore, for substantially
    all our currently marketed products we have been and expect that
    we will continue to be largely self-insured for future product
    liability losses. In addition, there is no assurance that we
    will be able to fully collect from our insurance carriers on
    past claims.

Manufacturing difficulties could lead to product supply
    problems.   Pharmaceutical manufacturing is complex
    and highly regulated. Manufacturing difficulties can result in
    product shortages, leading to lost sales. See Item 1,
     Business   Raw Materials and Product
    Supply,  for more details.

The current volatility in financial markets could adversely
    affect the cost and availability of
    financing.   Although the current contraction of
    the credit markets has not yet materially affected our borrowing
    costs or flexibility, if there is additional significant
    contraction of the markets, it could adversely affect our
    ability to obtain short-term or long-term financing at
    reasonable rates.

A prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect our
    business and operating results.   While
    pharmaceuticals have not generally been sensitive to overall
    economic cycles, a prolonged economic downturn coupled with
    rising unemployment (and a corresponding increase in the
    uninsured and underinsured population) could lead to decreased
    utilization of drugs, affecting our sales volume. Declining tax
    revenues attributable to the downturn may increase the pressure
    on governments to reduce healthcare spending, leading to
    increasing government efforts to control drug prices. In
    addition, a prolonged economic downturn could have an adverse
    impact on our investment portfolio, which could lead to the
    recognition of losses on our corporate investments and increased
    benefit expense related to our pension investments. Also, if our
    customers, suppliers or collaboration partners experience
    financial difficulties, we could experience slower customer
    collections, greater bad debt expense, and performance defaults
    by suppliers or collaboration partners.

We face other risks to our business and operating
    results.   Our business is subject to a number of
    other risks and uncertainties, including:

Economic factors over which we have no control, including
    changes in inflation, interest rates and foreign currency
    exchange rates can affect our results of operations.

Changes in tax laws, including laws related to the remittance of
    foreign earnings or investments in foreign countries with
    favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state, and
    foreign tax audits, can affect our net income.

-13-

Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board, the Securities and Exchange
    Commission, and the Emerging Issues Task Force can affect
    reported results.

Our results can also be affected by internal factors, such as
    changes in business strategies and the impact of restructurings,
    asset impairments, technology acquisition and disposition
    transactions, and business combinations.

We undertake no duty to update forward-looking statements.

Item 1B.    

Unresolved
    Staff Comments

None.

Item 2.    

Properties

Our principal domestic and international executive offices are
    located in Indianapolis. At December 31, 2008, we owned 15
    production and distribution facilities in the United States and
    Puerto Rico. Together with the corporate administrative offices,
    these facilities contain an aggregate of approximately
    15.6 million square feet of floor area dedicated to
    production, distribution, and administration. Major production
    sites include Indianapolis, Clinton, and Lafayette, Indiana; two
    sites in Puerto Rico; Branchburg, New Jersey; and Augusta,
    Georgia.

We own production and distribution facilities in 15 countries
    outside the United States and Puerto Rico, containing an
    aggregate of approximately 3.9 million square feet of floor
    space. Major production sites include facilities in France,
    Ireland, Spain, Brazil, Italy, and the United Kingdom. We lease
    production and warehouse facilities in Puerto Rico and several
    countries outside the United States.

Our research and development facilities in the United States
    consist of approximately 3.4 million square feet and are
    located primarily in Indianapolis, with smaller sites in
    San Diego and New York City. In October 2008 we sold our
    Greenfield, Indiana research facility to Covance Inc. Our major
    research and development facilities abroad are located in United
    Kingdom, Canada, Singapore, and Spain, and contain an aggregate
    of approximately 350,000 square feet.

We believe that none of our properties is subject to any
    encumbrance, easement, or other restriction that would detract
    materially from its value or impair its use in the operation of
    the business. The buildings we own are of varying ages and in
    good condition.

Item 3.    

Legal
    Proceedings

We are a party to various currently pending legal actions,
    government investigations, and environmental proceedings, and we
    anticipate that such actions could be brought against us in the
    future. The most significant of these matters are described
    below or, as noted, in Part II, Item 7,
     Management s Discussion and Analysis  
    Legal and Regulatory Matters.  While it is not possible to
    determine the outcome of the legal actions, investigations and
    proceedings brought against us, we believe that, except as
    otherwise specifically noted in Part II, Item 7, the
    resolution of all such matters will not have a material adverse
    effect on our consolidated financial position or liquidity, but
    could possibly be material to our consolidated results of
    operations in any one accounting period.

Legal
    Proceedings Described in Management s Discussion and
    Analysis  

See Part II, Item 7,  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis   Legal and Regulatory
    Matters,  for information on various legal proceedings,
    including but not limited to:

The U.S. patent litigation involving Alimta, Cymbalta,
    Evista, Gemzar, and Xigris

The patent litigation outside the U.S. involving Zyprexa

-14-

The investigations by the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern
    District of Pennsylvania and various state attorneys general
    relating to our U.S. sales, marketing, and promotional
    practices

The Zyprexa product liability and related litigation, including
    claims brought on behalf of state Medicaid agencies and private
    healthcare payers

That information is incorporated into this Item by reference.

Other
    Patent Litigation  

Strattera:   Actavis Elizabeth LLC (Actavis),
    Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Inc., USA (Glenmark),
    Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (Sun), Sandoz Inc.
    (Sandoz), Mylan Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Mylan), Teva
    Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva), Apotex Inc. (Apotex),
    Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. (Aurobindo), Synthon Laboratories, Inc.
    (Synthon), and Zydus Pharmaceuticals, USA, Inc. (Zydus) each
    submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market generic versions
    of Strattera prior to the expiration of our relevant
    U.S. patent (expiring in 2017), and alleging that this
    patent is invalid. We filed a lawsuit against Actavis in the
    United States District Court for the District of New Jersey in
    August 2007, and added Glenmark, Sun, Sandoz, Mylan, Teva,
    Apotex, Aurobindo, Synthon, and Zydus as defendants in September
    2007. In December 2007, Zydus agreed to entry of a consent
    judgment in which Zydus conceded the validity and enforceability
    of the patent and agreed to a permanent injunction. In June
    2008, Glenmark agreed to entry of a permanent injunction,
    enjoining it from selling a generic product prior to the
    expiration of the U.S. patent. Also in June 2008, Synthon
    notified us that it has withdrawn its ANDA and agreed to a
    stipulated dismissal of all outstanding claims. For the
    remaining defendants, trial is anticipated as early as December
    2009.

Evista:   In June 2005, Dr. Alan Schreiber
    filed a lawsuit against us in the United States District Court
    for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania raising a number of
    claims, including patent infringement, misappropriation of trade
    secrets, breach of contract, and unjust enrichment, and seeking
    a declaration for inventorship of Lilly s Evista
    method-of-use patents. After the original lawsuit was filed, the
    University of Pennsylvania was added as a plaintiff. This matter
    was settled in December 2008. The settlement did not have a
    material impact on our consolidated results of operations,
    liquidity, or financial position.

Cialis:   In July 2005, Vanderbilt University
    filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court in Delaware
    against ICOS Corporation seeking to add three of its
    scientists as co-inventors on the Cialis compound and
    method-of-use patents. In January 2009, the district court judge
    ruled in our favor, declining to add any of these scientists as
    an inventor on either patent. The plaintiff may appeal this
    ruling. We believe these claims are without legal merit and
    expect to prevail in any appeal of this litigation; however, it
    is not possible to determine the outcome. An unfavorable final
    outcome could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated
    results of operations, liquidity, and financial position.

In October 2002, Pfizer Inc. was issued a method-of-use patent
    in the United States and commenced a lawsuit in the United
    States District Court in Delaware against us, Lilly ICOS LLC,
    and ICOS Corporation (both now subsidiaries of Lilly)
    alleging that the marketing of Cialis for erectile dysfunction
    infringed this patent. This litigation has been stayed pending
    the outcome of a reexamination of the patent by the
    U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The Office has now made a
    final rejection of the relevant patent claims which Pfizer is
    appealing. We believe Pfizer s claims are without merit and
    expect to prevail. However, it is not possible to determine the
    outcome of this litigation.

Other
    Product Liability Litigation  

We are currently a defendant in a variety of product liability
    lawsuits in the United States involving primarily Zyprexa,
    diethylstilbestrol ( DES ) and thimerosal.

In approximately 50 U.S. actions involving approximately 75
    claimants, plaintiffs seek to recover damages on behalf of
    children or grandchildren of women who were prescribed DES
    during pregnancy.

We have been named as a defendant in approximately 210 actions
    in the U.S., involving approximately 285 claimants, brought in
    various state courts and federal district courts on behalf of
    children with autism or other

-15-

neurological disorders who received childhood vaccines
    (manufactured by other companies) that contained thimerosal, a
    generic preservative used in certain vaccines in the
    U.S. beginning in the 1930s. We purchased patents and
    conducted research pertaining to thimerosal in the 1920s. We
    have been named in the suits even though we discontinued
    manufacturing the raw material in 1974 and discontinued selling
    it in the United States to vaccine manufacturers in 1992.
    The lawsuits typically name the vaccine manufacturers as well as
    Lilly and other distributors of thimerosal, and allege that the
    children s exposure to thimerosal-containing vaccines
    caused their autism or other neurological disorders. We strongly
    deny any liability in these cases. There is no credible
    scientific evidence establishing a causal relationship between
    thimerosal-containing vaccines and autism or other neurological
    disorders. In addition, we believe the majority of the cases
    should not be prosecuted in the courts in which they have been
    brought because the underlying claims are subject to the
    National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986. Implemented in
    1988, the Act established a mandatory, federally administered
    no-fault claims process for individuals who allege that they
    were harmed by the administration of childhood vaccines. Under
    the Act, claims must first be brought before the U.S. Court
    of Claims for an award determination under the compensation
    guidelines established pursuant to the Act. Claimants who are
    unsatisfied with their awards under the Act may reject the award
    and seek traditional judicial remedies.

Other
    Marketing Practices Investigations  

In November 2008, we received a subpoena from the
    U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of
    Inspector General in coordination with the U.S. Attorney
    for the Western District of New York seeking production of a
    wide range of documents and information relating to
    reimbursement of Alimta. We are cooperating in this
    investigation.

In February 2006, we reached a settlement of an investigation by
    the Office of Consumer Litigation, Department of Justice,
    related to our marketing and promotional practices and physician
    communications with respect to Evista. As part of the
    settlement, we agreed to plead guilty to one misdemeanor
    violation of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act. The plea was for
    the off-label promotion of Evista during 1998. The government
    did not charge the company with any unlawful intent, nor do we
    acknowledge any such intent. In connection with the overall
    settlement, we paid a total of $36.0 million. In addition,
    as part of the settlement, a civil consent decree requires us to
    continue to have a compliance program and to undertake a set of
    defined corporate integrity obligations related to Evista for
    five years.

In August 2003, we received notice that the staff of the SEC is
    conducting an investigation into the compliance by Polish
    subsidiaries of certain pharmaceutical companies, including
    Lilly, with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977.
    The staff has issued subpoenas to us requesting production of
    documents related to the investigation. In connection with that
    matter, staffs of the SEC and the Department of Justice (DOJ)
    have asked us to voluntarily provide additional information
    related to certain activities of Lilly affiliates in a number of
    other countries. We are cooperating with the SEC and the DOJ in
    this investigation.

Shareholder
    Derivative Litigation  

In 2007, the company received two demands from shareholders that
    the board of directors cause the company to take legal action
    against current and former directors and others for allegedly
    causing damage to the company through improper marketing of
    Evista, Prozac, and Zyprexa. In accordance with procedures
    established under the Indiana Business Corporation Law (Ind.
    Code
       23-1-32), 
    the board has appointed a committee of independent persons to
    consider the demands and determine what action, if any, the
    company should take in response. Since January 2008, we have
    been served with seven shareholder derivative lawsuits:
     Lambrecht, et al. v. Taurel, et al. , filed
    January 17, 2008, in the United States District Court for
    the Southern District of Indiana;  Staehr et al. v. Eli
    Lilly and Company et al.,  filed March 27, 2008, in
    Marion County Superior Court in Indianapolis, Indiana;
     Waldman et al., v. Eli Lilly and Company et al. ,
    filed February 11, 2008, in the United States District
    Court for the Eastern District of New York;  Solomon v.
    Eli Lilly and Company et al. , filed March 27, 2008, in
    Marion County Superior Court in Indianapolis, Indiana;
     Robbins v. Taurel, et al. , filed April 9, 2008,
    in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
    New York;  City of Taylor General Employees Retirement
    System v. Taurel, et al. , filed April 15, 2008, in
    the United States

-16-

District Court for the Eastern District of New York; and
     Zemprelli v. Taurel, et al ., filed June 24,
    2008, in the United States District Court for the Southern
    District of Indiana. Two of these lawsuits were filed by the
    shareholders who served the demands described above. All seven
    lawsuits are nominally filed on behalf of the company, against
    various current and former directors and officers and allege
    that the named officers and directors harmed the company through
    the improper marketing of Zyprexa, and in certain suits, Evista
    and Prozac. The Zemprelli suit also claims that certain
    defendants violated sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We believe these lawsuits are
    without merit and are prepared to defend against them vigorously.

Employee
    Litigation  

In April 2006, three former employees and one current employee
    filed a putative class action against the company in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana
    ( Welch, et al. v. Eli Lilly and Company , filed
    April 20, 2006) alleging racial discrimination.
    Plaintiffs have since amended their complaint twice, adding to
    the lawsuit a total of 154 individual plaintiffs as well as the
    national and local chapters of the National Association for the
    Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). Under the current
    schedule, the plaintiffs are to file their class certification
    motion in March 2009. We believe this lawsuit is without merit
    and are prepared to defend against it vigorously.

We have also been named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the Northern District of New York
    ( Schaefer-LaRose, et al ., filed November 14,
    2006) claiming that our pharmaceutical sales
    representatives should have been categorized as
     non-exempt  rather than  exempt  employees,
    and claiming that the company owes them back wages for overtime
    worked, as well as penalties, interest, and attorneys fees.
    Other pharmaceutical industry participants face identical
    lawsuits. The case was transferred to the U.S. District
    Court for the Southern District of Indiana in August 2007. In
    February 2008, the Indianapolis court conditionally certified a
    nationwide opt-in collective action under the Fair Labor
    Standards Act of all current and former employees who served as
    a Lilly pharmaceutical sales representative at any time from
    November 2003 to the present. As of the close of the opt-in
    period, fewer than 400 of the over 7,500 potential plaintiffs
    elected to participate in the lawsuit. We believe this lawsuit
    is without merit and are prepared to defend against it
    vigorously.

We have been named in a lawsuit brought by the Labor Attorney
    for
    15 th  Region

    in the Labor Court of Paulinia, State of Sao Paulo, alleging
    possible harm to employees and former employees caused by
    exposure to heavy metals. We have also been named in
    approximately 50 lawsuits filed in the same court by individual
    former employees making similar claims. We believe these
    lawsuits are without merit and are prepared to defend against
    them vigorously.

Other
    Matters  

In October 2005, the U.S. Attorney s office for the
    Eastern District of Pennsylvania advised that it is conducting
    an inquiry regarding certain rebate agreements we entered into
    with a pharmacy benefit manager covering Axid, Evista, Humalog,
    Humulin, Prozac, and Zyprexa. The inquiry includes a review of
    our Medicaid best price reporting related to the product sales
    covered by the rebate agreements. We are cooperating in this
    matter.

In October 2005, we received a subpoena from the
    U.S. Attorney s office for the District of
    Massachusetts for the production of documents relating to our
    business relationship with a long-term care pharmacy
    organization concerning Actos, Evista, Humalog, Humulin, and
    Zyprexa. We are cooperating in this matter.

Between 2003 and 2005, various municipalities in New York sued
    us and many other pharmaceutical manufacturers, claiming in
    general that as a result of alleged improprieties by the
    manufacturers in the calculation and reporting of average
    wholesale prices for purposes of Medicaid reimbursement, the
    municipalities overpaid their portion of the cost of
    pharmaceuticals. The suits seek monetary and other relief,
    including civil penalties and treble damages. Similar suits were
    filed against us and many other manufacturers by the States of
    Mississippi, Iowa, Utah, and Kansas. These suits are pending
    either in the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Massachusetts or in various state courts. All of these suits are
    in early stages or discovery is ongoing.

-17-

During 2004 we, along with several other pharmaceutical
    companies, were named in a consolidated lawsuit in California
    state court brought on behalf of consumers alleging that the
    conduct of pharmaceutical companies in preventing commercial
    importation of prescription drugs from outside the United States
    violated antitrust laws. The case sought restitution for alleged
    overpayments for pharmaceuticals and an injunction against the
    allegedly violative conduct. Summary judgment was granted to us
    and the other defendants. In July 2008, the California Court of
    Appeals affirmed that decision. The California Supreme Court has
    accepted plaintiff s appeal, and we expect it to be heard
    later this year.

In July 2008, we received a request from the Civil Division of
    the United States Department of Justice requesting the
    production of documents related to nominal pricing. We are
    cooperating in this matter.

We previously received requests for information about Zyprexa
    from the offices of Representative Henry Waxman, former Chair of
    the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, and
    Senator Charles Grassley, ranking member of the Senate Finance
    Committee. We also received a request from Representative
    Waxman s office for information about drug pricing under
    Medicare Part D. We are cooperating with these requests.

Along with over 100 other pharmaceutical companies operating in
    Europe, we have received a questionnaire from the European
    Commission as part of its ongoing inquiry into whether
    pharmaceutical companies have improperly blocked or created
    artificial barriers to pharmaceutical innovation or market entry
    of medicines through the misuse of patent rights, settlement of
    patent claims, litigation, or other means. We are cooperating
    with this request.

Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
    and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, we have been
    designated as one of several potentially responsible parties
    with respect to the cleanup of fewer than 10 sites. Under
    Superfund, each responsible party may be jointly and severally
    liable for the entire amount of the cleanup.

We are also a defendant in other litigation and investigations,
    including product liability, patent, employment, and premises
    liability litigation, of a character we regard as normal to our
    business.

Item 4.    

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

During the fourth quarter of 2008, no matters were submitted to
    a vote of security holders.

Part II

Item 5.    

Market for
    the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

You can find information relating to the principal market for
    our common stock and related stockholder matters at
    Part II, Item 8 under  Selected Quarterly Data
    (unaudited)  and  Selected Financial Data
    (unaudited).  That information is incorporated here by
    reference.

The following table summarizes the activity related to
    repurchases of our equity securities during the fourth quarter
    ended December 31, 2008:

-18-

The amounts presented in columns (a) and (b) above
    represent purchases of common stock related to employee stock
    option exercises. The amounts presented in columns (c) and
    (d) in the above table represent activity related to our
    $3.00 billion share repurchase program announced in March
    2000. As of December 31, 2008, we have purchased
    $2.58 billion related to this program.

Item 6.    

Selected
    Financial Data

You can find selected financial data for each of our five most
    recent fiscal years in Part II, Item 8 under
     Selected Financial Data (unaudited).  That
    information is incorporated here by reference.

Item 7.    

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition

Review of
    Operations

EXECUTIVE
    OVERVIEW  

This section provides an overview of our financial results,
    recent product and late-stage pipeline developments, significant
    business development, and legal, regulatory, and other matters
    affecting our company and the pharmaceutical industry.

Financial
    Results   

We achieved worldwide sales growth of 9 percent, which was
    primarily driven by volume increases in several key products.
    The favorable impact of foreign exchange rates on cost of sales
    contributed to an improvement in gross margin. Marketing,
    selling, and administrative expenses grew at the same rate as
    sales, driven by pre-launch activities associated with
    prasugrel, marketing costs associated with Cymbalta and Evista,
    the impact of foreign exchange rates, and increased
    litigation-related expenses; while our investment in research
    and development grew 10 percent. We completed our
    acquisition of ImClone Systems Inc. (ImClone), resulting in a
    significant charge of $4.69 billion for acquired in-process
    research and development (IPR D) and reached resolution on
    government investigations related to our past
    U.S. marketing and promotional practices for Zyprexa,
    resulting in an additional charge of $1.48 billion. We
    incurred tax expense of $764.3 million, despite a loss
    before income taxes of $1.31 billion, primarily caused by
    the non-deductibility of the ImClone IPR D charge and the
    partial deductibility of the Zyprexa investigation settlements.
    Accordingly, earnings decreased $5.02 billion, to a net
    loss of $2.07 billion, and earnings per share decreased
    $4.60, to a loss of $1.89 per share, in 2008 as compared with
    net income of $2.95 billion, or earnings per share of $2.71
    in 2007. Net income comparisons between 2008 and 2007 are
    affected by the impact of the following significant items (see
    Notes 3, 5, 12, and 14 to the consolidated financial
    statements for additional information):

2008  

Acquisitions
    (Note 3)   

We recognized charges totaling $4.73 billion (pretax)
    associated with the acquisition of ImClone, which decreased
    earnings per share by $4.46. These amounts include an IPR D
    charge of $4.69 billion (pretax). The remaining net
    expenses are related to ImClone s operating results
    subsequent to the acquisition, incremental interest costs, and
    amortization of the intangible asset associated with Erbitux. We
    also incurred IPR D charges of $28.0 million (pretax)
    associated with the acquisition of SGX Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    (SGX), which decreased earnings per share by $.03.

We incurred IPR D charges associated with licensing
    arrangements with BioMS Medical Corp. (BioMS) and TransPharma
    Medical Ltd. totaling $122.0 million (pretax), which
    decreased earnings per share by $.07.

-19-

Asset Impairments and Related Restructuring and Other
    Special Charges (Notes 5 and 14)  

We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other
    special charges totaling $497.0 million (pretax), which
    decreased earnings per share by $.30. A similar charge of
    $57.1 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share
    by $.04, was included in cost of sales. These charges were
    primarily associated with the sale of our Greenfield, Indiana
    site, the termination of the
    AIR   

    Insulin program, and strategic exit activities related to
    manufacturing operations.

We recorded charges of $1.48 billion (pretax) related to
    the federal and state Zyprexa investigations led by the
    U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
    (EDPA), as well as the resolution of a multi-state investigation
    regarding Zyprexa involving 32 states and the District of
    Columbia, which decreased earnings per share by $1.20.

Other
    (Note 12)   

We recognized a discrete income tax benefit of
    $210.3 million as a result of the resolution of a
    substantial portion of the IRS audit of our federal income tax
    returns for the years 2001 through 2004, which increased
    earnings per share by $.19.

2007  

Acquisitions
    (Note 3)   

We incurred IPR D charges associated with the acquisitions
    of ICOS Corporation (ICOS), Hypnion, Inc. (Hypnion), and
    Ivy Animal Health, Inc. (Ivy), totaling $631.6 million
    (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.57.

We incurred IPR D charges associated with our licensing
    arrangements with Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited India,
    MacroGenics, Inc., and OSI Pharmaceuticals, totaling
    $114.0 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share
    by $.06.

-20-

Asset
    Impairments and Related Restructuring and Other Special Charges
    (Notes 5 and 14)   

We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other
    special charges of $190.6 million (pretax), which decreased
    earnings per share by $.12. These charges were primarily
    associated with previously announced strategic decisions
    affecting manufacturing and research facilities.

We incurred a special charge following a settlement with one of
    our insurance carriers over Zyprexa product liability claims,
    which led to a reduction of our expected product liability
    insurance recoveries, and other product liability charges. This
    resulted in a charge totaling $111.9 million (pretax),
    which decreased earnings per share by $.09.

Late-Stage
    Pipeline Developments and Business Development
    Activity   

Our long-term success depends, to a great extent, on our ability
    to continue to discover and develop innovative pharmaceutical
    products and acquire or collaborate on compounds currently in
    development by other biotech-nology or pharmaceutical companies.
    There were a number of late-stage pipeline developments and
    business development transactions within the past year,
    including:

Pipeline  

We, along with our partner Daiichi Sankyo Company Limited, are
    seeking from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA)
    approval for prasugrel as a treatment for patients with acute
    coronary syndrome being managed with percutaneous coronary
    intervention. The Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory
    Committee of the FDA reviewed prasugrel during a hearing and
    unanimously recommended it for approval. The FDA will consider
    the recommendation as it continues its review and makes its
    final decision.

Prasugrel was approved for marketing by the European Commission
    under the trade name Efient in February 2009 for the prevention
    of atherothrombotic events in patients with acute coronary
    syndromes undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention.

We received a complete response letter from the FDA for
    olanzapine long-acting injection (LAI) for acute and maintenance
    treatment of schizophrenia in adults. We are continuing to work
    with the agency on the new drug application (NDA). The FDA does
    not require any additional clinical trials for the continued
    review of the NDA. Per the agency s request, we are
    preparing a proposed Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy,
    which will be submitted in the near future. In addition,
    olanzapine long-acting injection was approved by the European
    Commission under the trade name
    Zypadhera  tm  .

We withdrew our supplemental NDA from the FDA for Cymbalta for
    the management of chronic pain. We plan to resubmit the
    application in the first half of 2009, adding data from a
    recently completed study in chronic osteoarthritis pain of the
    knee.

The FDA approved Alimta, in combination with cisplatin, as a
    first-line treatment for locally advanced and metastatic
    non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) for patients with nonsquamous
    histology. The European health authorities also approved Alimta,
    in combination with cisplatin, as a first-line treatment for
    non-small cell lung cancer patients with other than
    predominantly squamous cell histology.

We submitted tadalafil as a treatment for pulmonary arterial
    hypertension (PAH) to regulatory authorities in the U.S.,
    Europe, and Japan.

The FDA approved Cymbalta for the management of fibromyalgia, a
    chronic pain disorder. In addition, the European Commission
    approved Cymbalta for the treatment of generalized anxiety
    disorder (GAD).

We, along with our partner Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    (Amylin), submitted Byetta as a monotherapy treatment for type 2
    diabetes to the FDA.

The European Commission approved a new indication for
    Forsteo   

    for the treatment of osteoporosis associated with sustained,
    systemic glucocorticoid therapy in women and men at increased
    risk for fracture. We have also received an approvable letter
    from the FDA for Forteo for the same indication.

-21-

We terminated development of our AIR Insulin program, which was
    being conducted in collaboration with Alkermes, Inc. The program
    had been in Phase III clinical development as a potential
    treatment for type 1 and type 2 diabetes. This decision was not
    a result of any observations during AIR Insulin trials relating
    to the safety of the product, but rather was a result of
    increasing uncertainties in the regulatory environment and a
    thorough evaluation of the evolving commercial and clinical
    potential of the product compared to existing medical therapies.

Business
    Development  

We acquired all of the outstanding shares of ImClone for a total
    purchase price of approximately $6.5 billion. This
    strategic combination will offer both targeted therapies and
    oncolytic agents along with an oncology pipeline spanning all
    phases of clinical development. It also expands our
    biotechnology capabilities.

We entered into a license and a supply arrangement with United
    Therapeutics Corporation related to the
    U.S. commercialization rights for the PAH indication of
    tadalafil. We received an upfront payment of $150.0 million
    in exchange for exclusive rights to commercialize tadalafil for
    PAH in the U.S., as well as for a product manufacturing and
    supply arrangement. As part of this arrangement, we acquired a
    $150.0 million equity position in the company. The
    indication is currently under review by the FDA.

We acquired the worldwide rights to the dairy cow supplement
    Posilac, as well as the product s supporting operations,
    from Monsanto Company (Monsanto) for an upfront payment of
    $300.0 million, as well as contingent consideration based
    on future Posilac sales. The acquisition of Posilac provides us
    with a product that complements those of our animal health
    product line.

We sold our Greenfield Laboratories site in Greenfield, Indiana,
    to Covance Inc. We also signed a
     10-year 
    service agreement, under which Covance will assume
    responsibility for our toxicology testing and other R D
    support activities at the site.

We acquired SGX for approximately $64 million in
    cash.  The acquisition allows us to integrate
    SGX s structure-guided drug discovery platform into our
    drug discovery efforts. It also gives us access to
    FAST  tm  ,

    SGX s fragment-based, protein structure guided drug
    discovery technology, and to a portfolio of preclinical oncology
    compounds focused on a number of kinase targets.

We entered into a licensing and development agreement with
    TransPharma Medical Ltd. (TransPharma) to acquire rights to its
    product and related drug delivery system for the treatment of
    osteoporosis. The product, which is administered transdermally
    using TransPharma s proprietary technology, is currently in
    Phase II clinical testing.

We entered into an agreement with an affiliate of TPG-Axon
    Capital (TPG) for the Phase III development of our two lead
    molecules for the treatment of Alzheimer s disease. This
    agreement provides TPG with success-based milestones and
    royalties in exchange for clinical trial funding.

We entered into a licensing and development agreement with BioMS
    whereby we acquired exclusive worldwide rights to a multiple
    sclerosis (MS) compound. The compound is currently being
    evaluated in two pivotal Phase III clinical trials in
    secondary progressive MS.

Legal,
    Regulatory, and Other Matters   

In March 2004, we were notified by the U.S. Attorney s
    office for the EDPA that it had commenced an investigation
    relating to our U.S. marketing and promotional practices
    for Zyprexa, Prozac, and Prozac
    Weekly  tm  .

    In October 2008, we announced that we were in advanced
    discussions to resolve the ongoing investigations led by the
    EDPA, and we recorded a charge of $1.42 billion. In January
    2009, we announced that the discussions had been successfully
    concluded, and that we settled the Zyprexa-related federal
    claims, as well as similar Medicaid-related claims of states
    which decide to participate in the settlement.

Beginning in August 2006, we received civil investigative
    demands or subpoenas from the attorneys general of a number of
    states under various state consumer protection laws seeking
    documents pertaining to Zyprexa. In

-22-

October 2008, we reached a settlement with 32 states and
    the District of Columbia, under which we paid $62.0 million.

In December 2008, the Federal Supreme Court (BGH) in Germany
    re-established our Zyprexa patent that had been declared invalid
    in 2007 by the German Federal Patent Court. As a result of this
    ruling, generic olanzapine has been withdrawn from the German
    market as of the beginning of 2009.

We continue to reach agreements with claimants  attorneys
    involved in U.S. Zyprexa product liability litigation to
    settle claims against us relating to the medication.
    Approximately 120 claims remain.

In the third quarter of 2008, we initiated a strategic review of
    our Tippecanoe manufacturing facility in Lafayette, Indiana.
    Options being considered for this site include continuing
    operations with a revised site mission, exploring opportunities
    to sell the facility, and ceasing operations altogether. The
    review is expected to last six to twelve months. No final
    decisions have been made at this time; however, depending on the
    decision, we could record significant charges.

In the United States, the Medicare Prescription Drug,
    Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA) continues to
    provide an effective prescription drug benefit under the
    Medicare program (known as Medicare Part D). Various
    measures have been discussed
     and/or 
    passed in both the U.S. House of Representatives and
    U.S. Senate that would impose additional pricing pressures
    on our products, including proposals to legalize the importation
    of prescription drugs and either allow, or require, the
    Secretary of Health and Human Services to negotiate drug prices
    within Medicare Part D directly with pharmaceutical
    manufacturers. Additionally, various proposals have been
    introduced that would increase the rebates we pay on sales to
    Medicaid patients or impose additional rebates on sales to
    patients who receive their medicines through Medicare
    Part D. Uncertainty exists surrounding the new
    administration and Congress and the impact any government
    decisions or programs will have on the pharmaceutical industry.
    In addition, many states are facing substantial budget
    difficulties due to the downturn in the economy and are expected
    to seek aggressive cuts or other offsets in healthcare spending.
    We expect pricing pressures at the federal and state levels to
    become more severe, which could have a material adverse effect
    on our consolidated results of operations.

International operations also are generally subject to extensive
    price and market regulations, and there are many proposals for
    additional cost-containment measures, including proposals that
    would directly or indirectly impose additional price controls or
    reduce the value of our intellectual property protection.

The following table summarizes our net sales activity in 2008
    compared with 2007:

1   

U.S. sales include sales in Puerto
    Rico.

-23-

2   

Prior to the acquisition of ICOS in
    late January 2007, the Cialis sales shown do not include sales
    in the joint-venture territories of Lilly ICOS LLC (North
    America, excluding Puerto Rico, and Europe). Our share of the
    joint-venture territory sales for January 2007, net of expenses
    and income taxes, is reported in other   net in our
    consolidated statements of operations. Subsequent to the
    acquisition, all Cialis product sales are reported in our net
    sales. Worldwide 2008 sales for Cialis grew 19 percent from
    2007 sales of $1.22 billion.

OPERATING
    RESULTS   2008  

Sales  

Our worldwide sales for 2008 increased 9 percent, to
    $20.38 billion, driven primarily by growth of Cymbalta,
    Cialis, Alimta, Humalog, and Gemzar. Worldwide sales volume
    increased 5 percent, while foreign exchange rates
    contributed 3 percent, and selling prices contributed
    2 percent. (Numbers do not add due to rounding.) Sales in
    the U.S. increased 8 percent, to $10.93 billion,
    driven primarily by increased sales of Cymbalta, Humalog,
    Cialis, and Alimta. Sales outside the U.S. increased
    11 percent, to $9.44 billion, driven primarily by the
    sales growth of Alimta, Cialis, Cymbalta, and Humalog.

Zyprexa, our top-selling product, is a treatment for
    schizophrenia, acute mixed or manic episodes associated with
    bipolar I disorder, and bipolar maintenance. Zyprexa sales in
    the U.S. decreased 1 percent in 2008, driven by lower
    demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside the
    U.S. decreased 1 percent, driven by decreased demand
    and to a lesser extent, lower prices, partially offset by the
    favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Demand outside the
    U.S. was unfavorably impacted by generic competition in
    Germany and Canada. As noted previously, generic olanzapine has
    been withdrawn from the German market as of the beginning of
    2009.

Sales of Cymbalta, a product for the treatment of major
    depressive disorder, diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain,
    generalized anxiety disorder, and fibromyalgia, increased
    23 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand and, to
    a lesser extent, higher prices. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 66 percent, driven by increased demand
    and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign
    exchange rates and higher prices. Higher demand outside the
    U.S. reflects increased demand in established markets as
    well as recent launches in new markets.

Sales of Humalog, our injectable human insulin analog for the
    treatment of diabetes, increased 14 percent in the U.S.,
    driven by increased demand and higher prices. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 24 percent, driven by increased demand
    and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign
    exchange rates.

-24-

Sales of Gemzar, a product approved to fight various cancers,
    increased 10 percent in the U.S., driven by increased
    demand and higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased
    7 percent, driven primarily by the favorable impact of
    foreign exchange rates and, to a lesser extent, increased
    demand, partially offset by lower prices. We will likely face
    increased generic competition in certain markets outside the
    U.S. in 2009.

Our sales of Cialis, a treatment for erectile dysfunction,
    increased 27 percent in the U.S., driven by increased
    demand and higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased
    26 percent, driven by increased demand and, to a lesser
    extent, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates and
    higher prices. Total worldwide sales of Cialis increased
    19 percent to $1.44 billion in 2008 as compared to
    $1.22 billion in 2007. This includes $72.7 million of
    sales in the Lilly ICOS joint-venture territories for the 2007
    period prior to the acquisition of ICOS.

Sales of Alimta, a treatment for various cancers, increased
    25 percent in the U.S., driven by increased demand and, to
    a lesser extent, higher prices. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 46 percent, driven by increased demand
    and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign
    exchange rates.

Sales of Evista, a product for the prevention and treatment of
    osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and for risk reduction of
    invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis
    and postmenopausal women at high risk for invasive breast
    cancer, decreased 1 percent in the U.S., driven by
    decreased demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales
    outside the U.S. decreased 2 percent, driven by lower
    demand and lower prices, partially offset by the favorable
    impact of foreign exchange rates. As described in Legal and
    Regulatory Matters, Evista is the subject of a Hatch-Waxman
    patent challenge by Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva), which
    has received tentative approval of its Abbreviated New Drug
    Application (ANDA) from the FDA. Unless the current stay on
    Teva s approved ANDA remains in force or Teva is
    preliminarily enjoined from markets if the stay is lifted, it is
    possible that Teva could choose to launch before the current
    action against Teva is concluded. Such a launch could have a
    material adverse impact on our future consolidated results of
    operations.

Sales of Humulin, an injectable human insulin for the treatment
    of diabetes, increased 4 percent in the U.S., driven by
    higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased
    10 percent, driven by the favorable impact of foreign
    exchange rates and increased demand.

Sales of Forteo, an injectable treatment for osteoporosis in
    postmenopausal women and men at high risk for fracture,
    decreased 1 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased
    demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 34 percent, driven by increased demand
    and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign
    exchange rates.

Sales of Strattera, a treatment for attention-deficit
    hyperactivity disorder in children, adolescents, and adults,
    decreased 6 percent in the U.S., driven by decreased
    demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 35 percent, driven primarily by
    increased demand.

Worldwide sales of Byetta, an injectable product for the
    treatment of type 2 diabetes that we market with Amylin,
    increased 16 percent to $751.4 million during 2008. We
    report as revenue our 50 percent share of Byetta s
    gross margin in the U.S., 100 percent of Byetta sales
    outside the U.S., and our sales of Byetta pen delivery devices
    to Amylin. Our revenues increased 20 percent to
    $396.1 million in 2008.

Animal health product sales in the U.S. increased
    12 percent, driven by the inclusion of U.S. Posilac
    sales since the date of acquisition. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 8 percent, driven by increased demand
    and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign
    exchange rates.

Gross
    Margin, Costs, and Expenses  

The 2008 gross margin increased to 78.5 percent of
    sales compared with 77.2 percent for 2007. This increase
    was primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange
    rates.

-25-

Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased
    9 percent in 2008, to $6.63 billion. This increase was
    due to increased marketing and selling expenses, including
    prelaunch expenses for prasugrel and marketing costs associated
    with Cymbalta and Evista; the impact of foreign exchange rates;
    and increased litigation-related expenses. Investment in
    research and development increased 10 percent, to
    $3.84 billion, due to increased late-stage clinical trial
    and discovery research costs.

Acquired IPR D charges related to the acquisitions of
    ImClone and SGX, as well as our in-licensing arrangements with
    BioMS and TransPharma, were $4.84 billion in 2008 as
    compared to $745.6 million in

-26-

2007. We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other
    special charges of $1.97 billion in 2008, as compared to
    $302.5 million in 2007. The 2008 charges were primarily
    associated with the resolution of Zyprexa investigations with
    the U.S. Attorney for the EDPA and multiple states. See
    Notes 3, 5 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements
    for additional information.

Other   net decreased $148.1 million, to a net
    expense of $26.1 million. This line item consists of
    interest expense, interest income, the after-tax operating
    results of the Lilly ICOS joint venture, and all other
    miscellaneous income and expense items.

Interest expense for 2008 was essentially flat at
    $228.3 million. The impact of lower interest rates on our
    debt was substantially offset by lower capitalized interest due
    to lower
     construction-in-progress 
    balances and increased interest expense due to the financing of
    the ImClone acquisition.

Interest income for 2008 decreased $4.6 million, to
    $210.7 million, as lower interest rates were partially
    offset by higher cash balances.

The Lilly ICOS joint venture income prior to the 2007
    acquisition was $11.0 million. Subsequent to the
    acquisition, all activity related to ICOS is included in our
    consolidated financial results.

Net other miscellaneous items decreased $132.5 million to a
    loss of $8.5 million, primarily as a result of lower
    outlicensing income and increased net losses on investment
    securities in 2008 (the majority of which consisted of
    unrealized losses).

We incurred tax expense of $764.3 million in 2008, despite
    having a loss before income taxes of $1.31 billion. Our net
    loss was driven by the $4.69 billion acquired IPR D
    charge for ImClone and the $1.48 billion Zyprexa
    investigation settlements. The IPR D charge was not tax
    deductible, and only a portion of the Zyprexa investigation
    settlements was deductible. In addition, we recorded tax expense
    associated with the ImClone acquisition, as well as a discrete
    income tax benefit of $210.3 million for the resolution of
    the IRS audit. The effective tax rate was 23.8 percent in
    2007. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements
    for additional information.

OPERATING
    RESULTS   2007  

Financial
    Results  

We achieved worldwide sales growth of
    19 percent.  This growth was primarily driven by
    volume increases in a number of key products, with a significant
    portion of this increase in volume resulting from the
    acquisition of ICOS. Our additional investments in marketing and
    selling expenses in support of key products, primarily Cymbalta
    and the diabetes care products, contributed to this sales growth
    and enabled us to increase our investment in research and
    development 11 percent in 2007. While cost of sales and
    operating expenses in the aggregate grew at approximately the
    same rate as sales, other   net decreased and the
    effective tax rate increased. As a result, net income and
    earnings per share increased 11 percent, to
    $2.95 billion, or $2.71 per share, in 2007 as compared with
    $2.66 billion, or $2.45 per share, in 2006. Net income
    comparisons between 2007 and 2006 are affected by the impact of
    significant items that are reflected in our financial results.
    The significant items for 2007 are summarized in the Executive
    Overview. The 2006 items are summarized as follows (see
    Notes 5 and 14 to the consolidated financial statements for
    additional information):

We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other
    special charges of $450.3 million (pretax) in the fourth
    quarter, which decreased earnings per share by $.31
    (Note 5).

In the fourth quarter, we incurred a charge related to Zyprexa
    product liability litigation matters of $494.9 million
    (pretax), or $.42 per share (Notes 5 and 14).

Sales  

Our worldwide sales for 2007 increased 19 percent, to
    $18.63 billion, driven primarily by the inclusion of Cialis
    since our January 29, 2007 acquisition of ICOS and sales
    growth of Cymbalta, Zyprexa, Alimta, Gemzar, and Humalog.
    Worldwide sales volume increased 12 percent, while selling
    prices and foreign

-27-

exchange rates each increased sales by 3 percent. (Numbers
    do not add due to rounding.) Sales in the U.S. increased
    18 percent, to $10.15 billion, driven primarily by
    increased sales of Cymbalta, Zyprexa, Alimta, and Byetta, and
    the inclusion of Cialis. Sales outside the U.S. increased
    20 percent, to $8.49 billion, driven primarily by the
    inclusion of Cialis, and sales growth of Zyprexa, Alimta,
    Gemzar, and Cymbalta.

The following table summarizes our net sales activity in 2007
    compared with 2006:

NM   Not meaningful

1   

U.S sales include sales in Puerto
    Rico.

2   

Prior to the acquisition of ICOS,
    the Cialis sales shown in the table above represent results only
    in the territories in which we marketed Cialis exclusively. The
    remaining sales relate to the joint-venture territories of Lilly
    ICOS LLC (North America, excluding Puerto Rico, and Europe). Our
    share of the joint-venture territory sales, net of expenses and
    income taxes, is reported in other   net in our
    consolidated statements of operations. Subsequent to the
    acquisition, all Cialis product sales are reported in our net
    sales.

Zyprexa sales in the U.S. increased 6 percent in 2007,
    driven by higher net selling prices, partially offset by lower
    demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased 12 percent,
    driven by the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates and
    increased demand.

Sales of Cymbalta increased 58 percent in the U.S., driven
    primarily by strong demand. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 70 percent, driven by increased demand
    and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates.

Sales of Gemzar increased 10 percent in the U.S., driven by
    higher prices and increased demand. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 16 percent, driven by increased demand
    and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates.

Sales of Humalog increased 9 percent in the U.S., driven by
    higher prices and increased demand. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 20 percent, driven by increased demand
    and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, partially
    offset by declining prices.

Total worldwide sales of Cialis were $1.22 billion and
    $971.0 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. This
    includes $72.7 million of sales in the Lilly ICOS
    joint-venture territories for the 2007 period prior to the
    acquisition of ICOS. Worldwide sales grew 25 percent in
    2007. U.S. sales increased 20 percent in 2007, driven
    by increased demand and higher prices. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 28 percent in 2007, driven by increased
    demand, the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates, and
    higher prices.

-28-

Sales of Evista increased 6 percent in the U.S., driven by
    higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased
    1 percent, driven by the favorable impact of foreign
    exchange rates, partially offset by lower prices and lower
    demand.

Sales of Humulin decreased 1 percent in the U.S., driven by
    lower demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside
    the U.S. increased 11 percent, driven by increased
    demand and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates,
    partially offset by lower prices.

Sales of Alimta increased 28 percent in the U.S., driven by
    increased demand and, to a lesser extent, higher prices. Sales
    outside the U.S. increased 55 percent, driven by
    increased demand and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact
    of foreign exchange rates.

Sales of Forteo increased 19 percent in the U.S., driven by
    higher net selling prices. U.S. sales growth benefited from
    access to medical coverage through the Medicare Part D
    program and decreased utilization of our U.S. patient
    assistance program and, to a lesser extent, increased demand.
    Sales outside the U.S. increased 21 percent, driven by
    increased demand and the favorable impact of foreign exchange
    rates.

Sales of Strattera decreased 9 percent in the U.S., as a
    result of decreased demand. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 50 percent, driven by increased demand
    and the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates.

Our revenues from Actos decreased 46 percent in the
    U.S. Sales outside the U.S. increased 30 percent,
    driven primarily by increased demand and, to a lesser extent,
    the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates.

Worldwide sales of Byetta increased 51 percent to
    $650.2 million during 2007. Our revenues increased
    51 percent to $330.7 million in 2007.

Animal health product sales in the U.S. increased
    18 percent, driven by increased demand, the acquisition of
    Ivy Animal Health, and new companion-animal product launches.
    Sales outside the U.S. increased 10 percent, driven by
    the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates and increased
    demand.

Gross
    Margin, Costs, and Expenses  

The 2007 gross margin decreased to 77.2 percent of
    sales compared with 77.4 percent for 2006. This decrease
    was primarily due to the expense resulting from the amortization
    of the intangible assets acquired in the ICOS acquisition, the
    unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates, and production
    volumes growing at a slower rate than sales, offset partially by
    manufacturing expenses growing at a slower rate than sales.

Operating expenses (the aggregate of research and development
    and marketing, selling, and administrative expenses) increased
    19 percent in 2007. Investment in research and development
    increased 11 percent, to $3.49 billion. In addition to
    the acquisition of ICOS, this increase was due to increases in
    discovery research and late-stage clinical trial costs.
    Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased
    25 percent in 2007, to $6.10 billion. This increase
    was largely due to the impact of the ICOS acquisition, as well
    as increased marketing and selling expenses in support of key
    products, primarily Cymbalta and the diabetes care products, and
    the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates.

Acquired IPR D charges were $745.6 million in 2007 and
    related to the acquisitions of ICOS, Hypnion, and Ivy, as well
    as our licensing arrangements with OSI, MacroGenics, and
    Glenmark. We incurred asset impairments, restructuring, and
    other special charges of $302.5 million in 2007 as compared
    to $945.2 million in 2006. See Notes 3, 5 and 14 to
    the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Other   net decreased $115.8 million, to income
    of $122.0 million. This line item consists of interest
    expense, interest income, the after-tax operating results of the
    Lilly ICOS joint venture, and all other miscellaneous income and
    expense items.

-29-

We incurred tax expense of $923.8 million in 2007,
    resulting in an effective tax rate of 23.8 percent,
    compared with 22.1 percent for 2006. The effective tax
    rates for 2007 and 2006 were affected primarily by the
    nondeductible ICOS and Hypnion IPR D charges of
    $594.6 million in 2007, and the product liability charges
    of $494.9 million in 2006. The tax effect of the product
    liability charge was less than our effective tax rate, as the
    tax benefit was calculated based upon existing tax laws in the
    countries in which we reasonably expect to deduct the charge.
    See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for
    additional information.

FINANCIAL
    CONDITION  

As of December 31, 2008, cash, cash equivalents, and
    short-term investments totaled $5.93 billion compared with
    $4.83 billion at December 31, 2007. Cash flow from
    operations in 2008 of $7.30 billion and net proceeds from
    the issuance of debt of $4.41 billion exceeded the total of
    the net cash paid for corporate acquisitions of
    $6.08 billion, dividends paid of $2.06 billion,
    purchases of property and equipment of $947.2 million, and
    net purchases of noncurrent investments of $815.1 million.

Capital expenditures of $947.2 million during 2008 were
    $135.2 million less than in 2007. We expect 2009 capital
    expenditures to be approximately $1.1 billion as we invest
    in our biotechnology capabilities, continue to upgrade our
    manufacturing and research facilities to enhance productivity
    and quality systems, and invest in the long-term growth of our
    diabetes care products.

Total debt as of December 31, 2008 increased
    $5.45 billion, to $10.46 billion, reflecting the
    commercial paper we issued in November 2008 primarily to finance
    our acquisition of ImClone, offset by long-term debt repayments
    and paydown of commercial paper with cash and cash equivalents
    on hand. Our current debt ratings from Standard  
    Poor s and Moody s are at AA and A1, respectively.

Dividends of $1.88 per share were paid in 2008, an increase of
    11 percent from 2007. In the fourth quarter of 2008,
    effective for the first-quarter dividend in 2009, the quarterly
    dividend was increased to $.49 per share (a 4.3 percent
    increase), resulting in an indicated annual rate for 2009 of
    $1.96 per share. The year 2008 was the

-30-

124th consecutive year in which we made dividend payments
    and the 41st consecutive year in which dividends have been
    increased.

In recent months, global economic conditions have deteriorated.
    Triggered by the liquidity crisis in the capital markets, the
    implications have become more widespread, resulting in higher
    unemployment and declines in real consumer spending. In
    addition, many financial institutions have tightened lines of
    credit, reducing funding available for near-term economic
    growth. Pharmaceutical consumption has traditionally been
    relatively unaffected by economic downturns; however, an
    extended downturn could lead to a decline in overall
    prescriptions corresponding with the growth of the uninsured and
    underinsured population in the U.S. In addition, both
    private and public health care payers are facing heightened
    fiscal challenges due to the economic slowdown and are taking
    aggressive steps to reduce the costs of care, including
    pressures for increased pharmaceutical discounts and rebates and
    efforts to drive greater use of generic drugs. We continue to
    monitor the potential near-term impact of prescription trends,
    the credit worthiness of our wholesalers and other customers and
    suppliers, the decline of health insurance coverage in the
    overall population, and the federal government s
    involvement in the economic crisis.

We believe that cash generated from operations, along with
    available cash and cash equivalents, will be sufficient to fund
    our normal operating needs, including debt service, capital
    expenditures, costs associated with litigation and government
    investigations, and dividends in 2009. We believe that amounts
    accessible through existing commercial paper markets should be
    adequate to fund short-term borrowings. Our access to credit
    markets has not been adversely affected by the recent
    illiquidity in the market because of the high credit quality of
    our short- and long-term debt. In 2009, we intend to fund
    payments required in connection with the EDPA settlements, and
    to further reduce outstanding commercial paper with cash and
    cash equivalents on hand, cash generated from operations, and
    the issuance of longterm debt. We currently have
    $1.24 billion of unused committed bank credit facilities,
    $1.20 billion of which backs our commercial paper program.
    Additionally, in November 2008, we obtained a one-year
    short-term revolving credit facility in the amount of
    $4.00 billion as
     back-up, 
    alternative financing. Various risks and uncertainties,
    including those discussed in the Financial Expectations for 2009
    section, may affect our operating results and cash generated
    from operations.

-31-

In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to
    fluctuations in interest rates and currency values. These
    fluctuations can vary the costs of financing, investing, and
    operating. We address a portion of these risks through a
    controlled program of risk management that includes the use of
    derivative financial instruments. The objective of controlling
    these risks is to limit the impact on earnings of fluctuations
    in interest and currency exchange rates. All derivative
    activities are for purposes other than trading.

Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in
    short-term U.S. dollar interest rates. In an effort to
    manage interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an
    acceptable balance between fixed and floating rate debt
    positions and may enter into interest rate derivatives to help
    maintain that balance. Based on our overall interest rate
    exposure at December 31, 2008 and 2007, including
    derivatives and other interest rate risk-sensitive instruments,
    a hypothetical 10 percent change in interest rates applied
    to the fair value of the instruments as of December 31,
    2008 and 2007, respectively, would have no material impact on
    earnings, cash flows, or fair values of interest rate
    risksensitive instruments over a one-year period.

Our foreign currency risk exposure results from fluctuating
    currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against
    the euro and the Japanese yen, and the British pound against the
    euro. We face transactional currency exposures that arise when
    we enter into transactions, generally on an intercompany basis,
    denominated in currencies other than the local currency. We also
    face currency exposure that arises from translating the results
    of our global operations to the U.S. dollar at exchange
    rates that have fluctuated from the beginning of the period. We
    may use forward contracts and purchased options to manage our
    foreign currency exposures. Our policy outlines the minimum and
    maximum hedge coverage of such exposures. Gains and losses on
    these derivative positions offset, in part, the impact of
    currency fluctuations on the existing assets, liabilities,
    commitments, and anticipated revenues. Considering our
    derivative financial instruments outstanding at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, a hypothetical 10 percent
    change in exchange rates (primarily against the
    U.S. dollar) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, would have no material impact on earnings, cash
    flows, or fair values of foreign currency rate risk-sensitive
    instruments over a one-year period. These calculations do not
    reflect the impact of the exchange gains or losses on the
    underlying positions that would be offset, in part, by the
    results of the derivative instruments.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations  

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have a material
    current effect or that are reasonably likely to have a material
    future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial
    condition, revenues or expenses,

-32-

results of operations, liquidity, capital expenditures, or
    capital resources. We acquire and collaborate on assets still in
    development and enter into research and development arrangements
    with third parties that often require milestone and royalty
    payments to the third party contingent upon the occurrence of
    certain future events linked to the success of the asset in
    development. Milestone payments may be required contingent upon
    the successful achievement of an important point in the
    development life cycle of the pharmaceutical product (e.g.,
    approval of the product for marketing by the appropriate
    regulatory agency or upon the achievement of certain sales
    levels). If required by the arrangement, we may have to make
    royalty payments based upon a percentage of the sales of the
    pharmaceutical product in the event that regulatory approval for
    marketing is obtained. Because of the contingent nature of these
    payments, they are not included in the table of contractual
    obligations.

Individually, these arrangements are not material in any one
    annual reporting period. However, if milestones for multiple
    products covered by these arrangements would happen to be
    reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate charge to
    expense could be material to the results of operations in any
    one period. These arrangements often give us the discretion to
    unilaterally terminate development of the product, which would
    allow us to avoid making the contingent payments; however, we
    are unlikely to cease development if the compound successfully
    achieves clinical testing objectives. We also note that, from a
    business perspective, we view these payments as positive because
    they signify that the product is successfully moving through
    development and is now generating or is more likely to generate
    cash flows from sales of products.

Our current noncancelable contractual obligations that will
    require future cash payments are as follows (in millions):

1   

Our long-term debt obligations
    include both our expected principal and interest obligations and
    our interest rate swaps. We used the interest rate forward curve
    at December 31, 2008 to compute the amount of the
    contractual obligation for interest on the variable rate debt
    instruments and swaps.

2   

We have included the following:

Purchase obligations, consisting primarily of all open purchase
    orders at our significant operating locations as of
    December 31, 2008. Some of these purchase orders may be
    cancelable; however, for purposes of this disclosure, we have
    not distinguished between cancelable and noncancelable purchase
    obligations.

Contractual payment obligations with each of our significant
    vendors, which are noncancelable and are not contingent.

3   

We have included long-term
    liabilities consisting primarily of our nonqualified
    supplemental pension funding requirements and deferred
    compensation liabilities. We excluded liabilities for
    unrecognized tax benefits of $906.2 million, as we cannot
    reasonably estimate the timing of future cash outflows
    associated with those liabilities.

4   

This category comprises primarily
    minimum pension funding requirements.

The contractual obligations table is current as of
    December 31, 2008. We expect the amount of these
    obligations to change materially over time as new contracts are
    initiated and existing contracts are completed, terminated, or
    modified.

-33-

APPLICATION
    OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

In preparing our financial statements in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we must often
    make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
    of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related
    disclosures. Some of those judgments can be subjective and
    complex, and consequently actual results could differ from those
    estimates. For any given individual estimate or assumption we
    make, it is possible that other people applying reasonable
    judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop
    different estimates. We believe that, given current facts and
    circumstances, it is unlikely that applying any such other
    reasonable judgment would cause a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated results of operations, financial position, or
    liquidity for the periods presented in this report. Our most
    critical accounting policies have been discussed with our audit
    committee and are described below.

Revenue
    Recognition and Sales Return, Rebate, and Discount
    Accruals  

We recognize revenue from sales of products at the time title of
    goods passes to the buyer and the buyer assumes the risks and
    rewards of ownership. For more than 90 percent of our
    sales, this is at the time products are shipped to the customer,
    typically a wholesale distributor or a major retail chain. The
    remaining sales, which are outside the U.S., are recorded at the
    point of delivery. Provisions for returns, rebates, and
    discounts are established in the same period the related sales
    are recorded.

We regularly review the supply levels of our significant
    products sold to major wholesalers in the U.S. and in major
    markets outside the U.S., primarily by reviewing periodic
    inventory reports supplied by our major wholesalers and
    available prescription volume information for our products, or
    alternative approaches. We attempt to maintain wholesaler
    inventory levels at an average of approximately one month or
    less on a consistent basis across our product portfolio. Causes
    of unusual wholesaler buying patterns include actual or
    anticipated product supply issues, weather patterns, anticipated
    changes in the transportation network, redundant holiday
    stocking, and changes in wholesaler business operations. In the
    U.S., the current structure of our arrangements eliminates the
    incentive for speculative wholesaler buying and provides us
    improved data on inventory levels at our wholesalers. When we
    believe wholesaler purchasing patterns have caused an unusual
    increase or decrease in the sales of a major product compared
    with underlying demand, we disclose this in our product sales
    discussion if we believe the amount is material to the product
    sales trend; however, we are not always able to accurately
    quantify the amount of stocking or destocking. Wholesaler
    stocking and destocking activity historically has not caused any
    material changes in the rate of actual product returns.

We establish sales return accruals for anticipated product
    returns. We record the return amounts as a deduction to arrive
    at our net sales. Once the product is returned, it is destroyed.
    Consistent with SFAS 48, Revenue Recognition When Right of
    Return Exists, we estimate a reserve when the sales occur for
    future product returns related to those sales. This estimate is
    primarily based on historical return rates as well as
    specifically identified anticipated returns due to known
    business conditions and product expiry dates. Actual product
    returns have been approximately one percent of our net sales
    over the past three years and have not fluctuated significantly
    as a percent of sales.

We establish sales rebate and discount accruals in the same
    period as the related sales. The rebate and discount amounts are
    recorded as a deduction to arrive at our net sales. Sales
    rebates and discounts that require the use of judgment in the
    establishment of the accrual include Medicaid, managed care,
    Medicare, chargebacks, long-term-care, hospital, patient
    assistance programs, and various other government programs. We
    base these accruals primarily upon our historical rebate and
    discount payments made to our customer segment groups and the
    provisions of current rebate and discount contracts.

The largest of our sales rebate and discount amounts are rebates
    associated with sales covered by Medicaid. In determining the
    appropriate accrual amount, we consider our historical Medicaid
    rebate payments by product as a percentage of our historical
    sales as well as any significant changes in sales trends, an
    evaluation of the current Medicaid rebate laws and
    interpretations, the percentage of our products that are sold to
    Medicaid recipients, and our product pricing and current rebate
    and discount contracts. Although we accrue a liability for
    Medicaid rebates at the time we record the sale (when the
    product is shipped), the Medicaid rebate related

-34-

to that sale is typically paid up to six months later. Because
    of this time lag, in any particular period our rebate
    adjustments may incorporate revisions of accruals for several
    periods.

Most of our rebates outside the U.S. are contractual or
    legislatively mandated and are estimated and recognized in the
    same period as the related sales. In some large European
    countries, government rebates are based on the anticipated
    pharmaceutical budget deficit in the country. A best estimate of
    these rebates, updated as governmental authorities revise
    budgeted deficits, is recognized in the same period as the
    related sale. If our estimates are not reflective of the actual
    pharmaceutical budget deficit, we adjust our rebate reserves.

We believe that our accruals for sales returns, rebates, and
    discounts are reasonable and appropriate based on current facts
    and circumstances. Sales returns, federally mandated Medicaid
    rebate and state pharmaceutical assistance programs (Medicaid)
    and Medicare rebates reduced sales by $1.03 billion,
    $738.8 million, and $704.8 million in 2008, 2007, and
    2006, respectively. A 5 percent change in the sales return,
    Medicaid, and Medicare rebate amounts we recognized in 2008
    would lead to an approximate $52 million effect on our
    income before income taxes. As of December 31, 2008, our
    sales returns, Medicaid, and Medicare rebate liability was
    $618.5 million.

Our global rebate and discount liabilities are included in sales
    rebates and discounts on our consolidated balance sheet. Our
    global sales return liability is included in other current
    liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities on our consolidated
    balance sheet. Approximately 80 percent and 78 percent
    of our global sales return, rebate, and discount liability
    resulted from sales of our products in the U.S. as of
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The following
    represents a roll-forward of our most significant
    U.S. returns, rebate, and discount liability balances,
    including Medicaid (in millions):

1   

Adjustments of the estimates for
    these returns, rebates, and discounts to actual results were
    less than 0.1 percent of net sales for each of the years
    presented.

Product
    Litigation Liabilities and Other Contingencies  

Product litigation liabilities and other contingencies are, by
    their nature, uncertain and are based upon complex judgments and
    probabilities. The factors we consider in developing our product
    litigation liability reserves and other contingent liability
    amounts include the merits and jurisdiction of the litigation,
    the nature and the number of other similar current and past
    litigation cases, the nature of the product and the current
    assessment of the science subject to the litigation, and the
    likelihood of settlement and current state of settlement
    discussions, if any. In addition, we accrue for certain product
    liability claims incurred, but not filed, to the extent we can
    formulate a reasonable estimate of their costs. We estimate
    these expenses based primarily on historical claims experience
    and data regarding product usage. We accrue legal defense costs
    expected to be incurred in connection with significant product
    liability contingencies when probable and reasonably estimable.

We also consider the insurance coverage we have to diminish the
    exposure for periods covered by insurance. In assessing our
    insurance coverage, we consider the policy coverage limits and
    exclusions, the potential for denial of coverage by the
    insurance company, the financial condition of the insurers, and
    the possibility of and length of time for collection. In the
    past few years, we have experienced difficulties in obtaining
    product liability insurance due to a very restrictive insurance
    market. Therefore, for substantially all of our currently
    marketed products, we have been and expect that we will continue
    to be completely self-insured for future product liability
    losses. In addition, there is no assurance that we will be able
    to fully collect from our insurance carriers in the future.

-35-

The litigation accruals and environmental liabilities and the
    related estimated insurance recoverables have been reflected on
    a gross basis as liabilities and assets, respectively, on our
    consolidated balance sheets.

We believe that the accruals and related insurance recoveries we
    have established for product litigation liabilities and other
    contingencies are appropriate based on current facts and
    circumstances.

Pension
    and Retiree Medical Plan Assumptions  

Pension benefit costs include assumptions for the discount rate,
    retirement age, and expected return on plan assets. Retiree
    medical plan costs include assumptions for the discount rate,
    retirement age, expected return on plan assets, and
    health-care-cost trend rates. These assumptions have a
    significant effect on the amounts reported. In addition to the
    analysis below, see Note 13 to the consolidated financial
    statements for additional information regarding our retirement
    benefits.

Periodically, we evaluate the discount rate and the expected
    return on plan assets in our defined benefit pension and retiree
    health benefit plans. In evaluating these assumptions, we
    consider many factors, including an evaluation of the discount
    rates, expected return on plan assets, and health-care-cost
    trend rates of other companies; our historical assumptions
    compared with actual results; an analysis of current market
    conditions and asset allocations (approximately 88 percent
    to 92 percent of which are growth investments); and the
    views of leading financial advisers and economists. We use an
    actuarially determined, company-specific yield curve to
    determine the discount rate. In evaluating our expected
    retirement age assumption, we consider the retirement ages of
    our past employees eligible for pension and medical benefits
    together with our expectations of future retirement ages.

We believe our pension and retiree medical plan assumptions are
    appropriate based upon the above factors. If the
    health-care-cost trend rates were to be increased by one
    percentage point each future year, the aggregate of the service
    cost and interest cost components of the 2008 annual expense
    would increase by approximately $27 million. A
    one-percentage-point decrease would lower the aggregate of the
    2008 service cost and interest cost by approximately
    $21 million. If the 2008 discount rate for the
    U.S. defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit
    plans (U.S. plans) were to be changed by a quarter
    percentage point, income before income taxes would change by
    approximately $26 million. If the 2008 expected return on
    plan assets for U.S. plans were to be changed by a quarter
    percentage point, income before income taxes would change by
    approximately $17 million. If our assumption regarding the
    2008 expected age of future retirees for U.S. plans were
    adjusted by one year, our income before income taxes would be
    affected by approximately $28 million. The U.S. plans
    represent approximately 83 percent of the total accumulated
    postretirement benefit obligation and approximately
    84 percent of total plan assets at December 31, 2008.

Impairment
    of Long-Lived Assets  

We review the carrying value of long-lived assets (both
    intangible and tangible) for potential impairment on a periodic
    basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
    the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We
    determine impairment by comparing the projected undiscounted
    cash flows to be generated by the asset to its carrying value.
    If an impairment is identified, a loss is recorded equal to the
    excess of the asset s net book value over its fair value,
    and the cost basis is adjusted. The estimated future cash flows,
    based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections,
    require management s judgment. Actual results could vary
    from these estimates.

Income
    Taxes  

We prepare and file tax returns based on our interpretation of
    tax laws and regulations and record estimates based on these
    judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business,
    our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing
    authorities, which may result in future tax, interest, and
    penalty assessments by these authorities. Inherent uncertainties
    exist in estimates of many tax positions due to changes in tax
    law resulting from legislation, regulation,
     and/or  as
    concluded through the various jurisdictions  tax court
    systems. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax
    position only if it is more likely than not that the tax
    position will be sustained on examination by the taxing
    authorities, based on the technical merits of the

-36-

position. The tax benefits recognized in the financial
    statements from such a position are measured based on the
    largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent
    likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution. The
    amount of unrecognized tax benefits is adjusted for changes in
    facts and circumstances. For example, adjustments could result
    from significant amendments to existing tax law and the issuance
    of regulations or interpretations by the taxing authorities, new
    information obtained during a tax examination, or resolution of
    an examination. We believe that our estimates for uncertain tax
    positions are appropriate and sufficient to pay assessments that
    may result from examinations of our tax returns. We recognize
    both accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax
    benefits in income tax expense.

We have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our
    deferred tax assets, primarily those that have been generated
    from net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards in
    certain taxing jurisdictions. In evaluating whether we would
    more likely than not recover these deferred tax assets, we have
    not assumed any future taxable income or tax planning strategies
    in the jurisdictions associated with these carryforwards where
    history does not support such an assumption. Implementation of
    tax planning strategies to recover these deferred tax assets or
    future income generation in these jurisdictions could lead to
    the reversal of these valuation allowances and a reduction of
    income tax expense.

We believe that our estimates for the uncertain tax positions
    and valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets are
    appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. A
    5 percent change in the amount of the uncertain tax
    positions and the valuation allowance would result in a change
    in net income of approximately $43.2 million and
    $42.3 million, respectively.

FINANCIAL
    EXPECTATIONS FOR 2009  

For the full year of 2009, we expect earnings per share to be in
    the range of $4.00 to $4.25. We expect volume growth in sales
    again in 2009, driven by Cymbalta, Alimta, Cialis, Humalog, and
    the anticipated launches of prasugrel, as well as by the Elanco
    animal health division. However, the negative impact of weaker
    foreign currencies, worldwide pricing pressures, and the impact
    of generic competition in certain markets for Gemzar are
    anticipated to partially offset these positive impacts. As a
    result, we expect mid-single digit sales growth. We expect gross
    margin as a percent of net sales to increase, driven by the
    strengthening dollar. This increase could be more pronounced in
    the first half of 2009. Marketing, selling, and administrative
    expenses are expected to show flat to low-single digit growth.
    Research and development expenses are projected to grow in the
    low-double digits. Other   net is expected to be a net
    loss of between $200 million and $250 million. Capital
    expenditures are expected to be approximately $1.1 billion,
    and we expect continued strong operating cash flow.

Actual results could differ materially and will depend on, among
    other things, the continuing growth of our currently marketed
    products; developments with competitive products; the timing and
    scope of regulatory approvals and the success of our new product
    launches; asset impairments, restructurings, and acquisitions of
    compounds under development resulting in acquired in-process
    research and development charges; foreign exchange rates and
    global macroeconomic conditions; changes in effective tax rates;
    wholesaler inventory changes; other regulatory developments,
    litigation, and government investigations; and the impact of
    governmental actions regarding pricing, importation, and
    reimbursement for pharmaceuticals. We undertake no duty to
    update these forward-looking statements.

LEGAL AND
    REGULATORY MATTERS  

We are a party to various legal actions and government
    investigations. The most significant of these are described
    below. While it is not possible to determine the outcome of
    these matters, we believe that, except as specifically noted
    below, the resolution of all such matters will not have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position
    or liquidity, but could possibly be material to our consolidated
    results of operations in any one accounting period.

-37-

Patent
    Litigation  

We are engaged in the following patent litigation matters
    brought pursuant to procedures set out in the Hatch-Waxman Act
    (the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of
    1984):

Cymbalta:  Sixteen generic drug manufacturers have
    submitted ANDAs seeking permission to market generic versions of
    Cymbalta prior to the expiration of our relevant
    U.S. patents (the earliest of which expires in 2013). Of
    these challengers, all allege non-infringement of the patent
    claims directed to the commercial formulation, and eight allege
    invalidity of the patent claims directed to the active
    ingredient duloxetine. Of the eight challengers to the compound
    patent claims, one further alleges invalidity of the claims
    directed to the use of Cymbalta for treating fibromyalgia, and
    one alleges the patent having claims directed to the active
    ingredient is unenforceable. Lawsuits have been filed in
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana
    against Activis Elizabeth LLC; Aurobindo Pharma Ltd.; Cobalt
    Laboratories, Inc.; Impax Laboratories, Inc.; Lupin Limited;
    Sandoz Inc.; Sun Pharma Global, Inc.; and Wockhardt Limited,
    seeking rulings that the patents are valid, infringed, and
    enforceable. Answers to the complaints are pending.

Gemzar:  Sicor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Sicor), Mayne Pharma
    (USA) Inc. (Mayne), and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc. (Sun)
    each submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market generic
    versions of Gemzar prior to the expiration of our relevant
    U.S. patents (compound patent expiring in 2010 and
    method-of-use patent expiring in 2013), and alleging that these
    patents are invalid. We filed lawsuits in the U.S. District
    Court for the Southern District of Indiana against Sicor
    (February 2006) and Mayne (October 2006 and January 2008),
    seeking rulings that these patents are valid and are being
    infringed. The suit against Sicor has been scheduled for trial
    in July 2009. Sicor s ANDAs have been approved by the FDA;
    however, Sicor must provide 90 days notice prior to
    marketing generic Gemzar to allow time for us to seek a
    preliminary injunction. Both suits against Mayne have been
    administratively closed, and the parties have agreed to be bound
    by the results of the Sicor suit. In November 2007, Sun filed a
    declaratory judgment action in the United States District Court
    for the Eastern District of Michigan, seeking rulings that our
    method-of-use and compound patents are invalid or unenforceable,
    or would not be infringed by the sale of Sun s generic
    product. This trial is scheduled for December 2009.

Alimta:  Teva Parenteral Medicines, Inc. (Teva) and APP
    Pharmaceuticals, LLC (APP) each submitted ANDAs seeking approval
    to market generic versions of Alimta prior to the expiration of
    the relevant U.S. patent (licensed from the Trustees of
    Princeton University and expiring in 2016), and alleging the
    patent is invalid. We, along with Princeton, filed lawsuits in
    the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware
    against Teva and APP, seeking rulings that the compound patent
    is valid and infringed. Trial is scheduled for November 8,
    2010.

Evista:  Barr Laboratories, Inc. (Barr) submitted an ANDA
    in 2002 seeking permission to market a generic version of Evista
    prior to the expiration of our relevant U.S. patents
    (expiring in
     2012-2017) 
    and alleging that these patents are invalid, not enforceable, or
    not infringed. In November 2002, we filed a lawsuit against Barr
    in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
    Indiana, seeking a ruling that these patents are valid,
    enforceable, and being infringed by Barr. Teva Pharmaceuticals
    USA, Inc. (Teva) has also submitted an ANDA seeking permission
    to market a generic version of Evista. In June 2006, we filed a
    similar lawsuit against Teva in the U.S. District Court for
    the Southern District of Indiana. The lawsuit against Teva is
    currently scheduled for trial beginning March 9, 2009,
    while no trial date has been set in the lawsuit against Barr. In
    April 2008, the FDA granted Teva tentative approval of its ANDA,
    but Teva s ability to market a generic product is subject
    to a statutory stay, which has been extended to expire on
    March 9, 2009. If the stay expires and the company cannot
    obtain preliminary relief from the court, Teva can launch its
    generic product, regardless of the status of the current
    litigation, but subject to our right to recover damages, should
    we prevail at trial.

We believe each of these Hatch-Waxman challenges is without
    merit and expect to prevail in this litigation. However, it is
    not possible to determine the outcome of this litigation, and
    accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we will prevail.
    An unfavorable outcome in any of these cases could have a
    material adverse impact on our future consolidated results of
    operations, liquidity, and financial position.

-38-

We have received challenges to Zyprexa patents in a number of
    countries outside the U.S.:

In Canada, several generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have
    challenged the validity of our Zyprexa compound and
    method-of-use patent (expiring in 2011). In April 2007, the
    Canadian Federal Court ruled against the first challenger,
    Apotex Inc. (Apotex), and that ruling was affirmed on appeal in
    February 2008. In June 2007, the Canadian Federal Court held
    that an invalidity allegation of a second challenger, Novopharm
    Ltd. (Novopharm), was justified and denied our request that
    Novopharm be prohibited from receiving marketing approval for
    generic olanzapine in Canada. Novopharm began selling generic
    olanzapine in Canada in the third quarter of 2007. We sued
    Novopharm for patent infringement, and the trial began in
    November 2008. We expect the trial to run through the first
    quarter of 2009, with a decision in the second half of 2009. In
    November 2007, Apotex filed an action seeking a declaration of
    the invalidity of our Zyprexa compound and method-of-use
    patents, and no trial date has been set. We have brought similar
    actions against Pharmascience (August 2007), Sandoz (July 2007),
    Nu-Pharm (June 2008), Genpharm (June 2008) and Cobalt
    (January 2009); none of these suits has been scheduled for
    trial. Pharmascience has agreed to be bound by the outcome of
    the Novopharm suit, and, pending the outcome of the lawsuit, we
    have agreed not to take any further steps to prevent the company
    from coming to market with generic olanzapine tablets, subject
    to a contingent damages obligation should we be successful
    against Novopharm.

In Germany, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers
    Egis-Gyogyszergyar and Neolab Ltd. challenged the validity of
    our Zyprexa compound and method-of-use patent (expiring in
    2011). In June 2007, the German Federal Patent Court held that
    our patent is invalid. Generic olanzapine was launched by
    competitors in Germany in the fourth quarter of 2007. We
    appealed the decision to the German Federal Supreme Court and
    following a hearing in December 2008, the Supreme Court reversed
    the Federal Patent Court and found the patent to be valid.
    Following the decision of the Supreme Court, the generic
    companies either agreed to withdraw from the market or were
    subject to preliminary injunction. We are pursuing these
    companies for damages arising from infringement.

We have received challenges in a number of other countries,
    including Spain, the United Kingdom (U.K.), France, and several
    smaller European countries. In Spain, we have been successful at
    both the trial and appellate court levels in defeating the
    generic manufacturers  challenges, but further legal
    challenge is now pending before the Commercial Court in Madrid.
    In the U.K., the generic pharmaceutical manufacturer
    Dr. Reddy s Laboratories (UK) Limited has challenged
    the validity of our Zyprexa compound and method-of-use patent
    (expiring in 2011). In October 2008, the Patents Court in the
    High Court, London ruled that our patent was valid.
    Dr. Reddy s appealed this decision, and a hearing date
    for the appeal has not been set.

We are vigorously contesting the various legal challenges to our
    Zyprexa patents on a
     country-by-country 
    basis. We cannot determine the outcome of this litigation. The
    availability of generic olanzapine in additional markets could
    have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
    operations.

Xigris and Evista:  In June 2002, Ariad Pharmaceuticals,
    Inc., the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Whitehead
    Institute for Biomedical Research, and the President and Fellows
    of Harvard College in the U.S. District Court for the
    District of Massachusetts sued us, alleging that sales of two of
    our products, Xigris and Evista, were inducing the infringement
    of a patent related to the discovery of a natural cell signaling
    phenomenon in the human body, and seeking royalties on past and
    future sales of these products. On May 4, 2006, a jury in
    Boston issued an initial decision in the case that Xigris and
    Evista sales infringe the patent. The jury awarded the
    plaintiffs approximately $65 million in damages, calculated
    by applying a 2.3 percent royalty to all U.S. sales of
    Xigris and Evista from the date of issuance of the patent
    through the date of trial. In addition, a separate bench trial
    with the U.S. District Court of Massachusetts was held in
    August 2006, on our contention that the patent is unenforceable
    and impermissibly covers natural processes. In June 2005, the
    United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) commenced a
    reexamination of the patent, and in August 2007 took the
    position that the Ariad claims at issue are unpatentable, a
    position that Ariad continues to contest. In September 2007, the
    Court entered a final judgment indicating that Ariad s
    claims are patentable, valid, and enforceable, and finding
    damages in the amount of $65 million plus a
    2.3 percent royalty on net U.S. sales of Xigris
    and Evista since the time of the jury decision. However, the
    Court deferred the requirement to pay any damages until after
    all rights to appeal have been exhausted. We have appealed this

-39-

judgment. The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit heard
    oral arguments on the appeal on February 6, 2009. We
    believe that these allegations are without legal merit, that we
    will ultimately prevail on these issues, and therefore that the
    likelihood of any monetary damages is remote.

Government
    Investigations and Related Litigation  

In March 2004, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the EDPA
    advised us that it had commenced an investigation related to our
    U.S. marketing and promotional practices, including our
    communications with physicians and remuneration of physician
    consultants and advisors, with respect to Zyprexa, Prozac, and
    Prozac Weekly. In addition, the State Medicaid Fraud Control
    Units of more than 30 states coordinated with the EDPA in
    its investigation of any Medicaid-related claims relating to our
    marketing and promotion of Zyprexa. In January 2009, we
    announced that we reached resolution of this matter. As part of
    the resolution, we pled guilty to one misdemeanor violation of
    the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and agreed to pay
    $615.0 million. The misdemeanor plea is for the off-label
    promotion of Zyprexa in elderly populations as treatment for
    dementia, including Alzheimer s dementia, between September
    1999 and March 2001. We have also entered into a settlement
    agreement resolving the federal civil claims, under which we
    will pay approximately $438.0 million, although we do not
    admit to the allegations. We have also agreed to settle the
    civil investigations brought by the State Medicaid Fraud Control
    Units of the states that have coordinated with the EDPA in its
    investigation, and will make available a maximum amount of
    approximately $362.0 million for payment to those states
    that agree to settle. The charge we recorded for this matter in
    the third quarter of $1.42 billion will be sufficient to
    cover these payments. Also, as part of the settlement, we have
    entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of
    Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Health
    and Human Services (HHS). This agreement will require us to
    maintain our compliance program and to undertake a set of
    defined corporate integrity obligations for five years. The
    agreement also provides for an independent third-party review
    organization to assess and report on the company s systems,
    processes, policies, procedures and practices.

In June 2005, we received a subpoena from the Office of the
    Attorney General, Medicaid Fraud Control Unit, of the State of
    Florida, seeking production of documents relating to sales of
    Zyprexa and our marketing and promotional practices with respect
    to Zyprexa. In September 2006, we received a subpoena from the
    California Attorney General s Office seeking production of
    documents related to our efforts to obtain and maintain
    Zyprexa s status on California s formulary, marketing
    and promotional practices with respect to Zyprexa, and
    remuneration of health care providers. We expect these matters
    to be resolved if Florida and California participate in the
    state component of the EDPA resolution.

Beginning in August 2006, we received civil investigative
    demands or subpoenas from the attorneys general of a number of
    states under various state consumer protection laws. Most of
    these requests became part of a multistate investigative effort
    coordinated by an executive committee of attorneys general. In
    October 2008, we reached a settlement with 32 states and
    the District of Columbia. While there is no finding that we have
    violated any provision of the state laws under which the
    investigations were conducted, we paid $62.0 million and
    agreed to undertake certain commitments regarding Zyprexa for a
    period of six years, through consent decrees filed in the
    settling states. The 32 states participating in the
    settlement are: Alabama, Arizona, California, Delaware, Florida,
    Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Maryland,
    Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey,
    New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon,
    Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas,
    Vermont, Washington, and Wisconsin.

Product
    Liability and Related Litigation  

We have been named as a defendant in a large number of Zyprexa
    product liability lawsuits in the U.S. and have been
    notified of many other claims of individuals who have not filed
    suit. The lawsuits and unfiled claims (together the
     claims ) allege a variety of injuries from the use of
    Zyprexa, with the majority alleging that the product caused or
    contributed to diabetes or high blood-glucose levels. The claims
    seek substantial compensatory and punitive damages and typically
    accuse us of inadequately testing for and warning about side
    effects of Zyprexa. Many of the claims also allege that we
    improperly promoted the drug. Almost all of the

-40-

federal lawsuits are part of a Multi-District Litigation
    (MDL) proceeding before The Honorable Jack Weinstein in the
    Federal District Court for the Eastern District of New York (MDL
    No. 1596).

Since June 2005, we have entered into agreements with various
    claimants  attorneys involved in U.S. Zyprexa product
    liability litigation to settle a substantial majority of the
    claims. The agreements cover a total of approximately 32,670
    claimants, including a large number of previously filed lawsuits
    and other asserted claims. The two primary settlements were as
    follows:

The 2005 settlement totaling $700.0 million was paid during
    2005. The January 2007 settlements were paid during 2007.

We are prepared to continue our vigorous defense of Zyprexa in
    all remaining claims. The U.S. Zyprexa product liability
    claims not subject to these agreements include approximately 105
    lawsuits in the U.S. covering approximately 120 plaintiffs,
    of which about 80 cases covering about 90 plaintiffs are part of
    the MDL. No trials have been scheduled related to these claims.

In early 2005, we were served with four lawsuits seeking class
    action status in Canada on behalf of patients who took Zyprexa.
    One of these four lawsuits has been certified for residents of
    Quebec, and a second has been certified in Ontario and includes
    all Canadian residents except for residents of Quebec and
    British Columbia. The allegations in the Canadian actions are
    similar to those in the litigation pending in the U.S.

Since the beginning of 2005, we have recorded aggregate net
    pretax charges of $1.61 billion for Zyprexa product
    liability matters. The net charges, which take into account our
    actual insurance recoveries, covered the following:

The cost of the Zyprexa product liability settlements to
    date; and

Reserves for product liability exposures and defense costs
    regarding the known Zyprexa product liability claims and
    expected future claims to the extent we could formulate a
    reasonable estimate of the probable number and cost of the
    claims.

In December 2004, we were served with two lawsuits brought in
    state court in Louisiana on behalf of the Louisiana Department
    of Health and Hospitals, alleging that Zyprexa caused or
    contributed to diabetes or high blood-glucose levels, and that
    we improperly promoted the drug. These cases have been removed
    to federal court and are now part of the MDL proceedings in the
    Eastern District of New York (EDNY). In these actions, the
    Department of Health and Hospitals seeks to recover the costs it
    paid for Zyprexa through Medicaid and other drug-benefit
    programs, as well as the costs the department alleges it has
    incurred and will incur to treat Zyprexa-related illnesses. We
    have been served with similar lawsuits filed by the states of
    Alaska, Arkansas, Connecticut, Idaho, Minnesota, Mississippi,
    Montana, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Utah, and
    West Virginia in the courts of the respective states. The
    Connecticut, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Montana, New
    Mexico, and West Virginia cases are part of the MDL proceedings
    in the EDNY. The Alaska case was settled in March 2008 for a
    payment of $15.0 million, plus terms designed to ensure,
    subject to certain limitations and conditions, that Alaska is
    treated as favorably as certain other states that may settle
    with us in the future over similar claims. The following cases
    have been set for trial in 2009: Connecticut in the EDNY in
    June, Pennsylvania in November, and South Carolina in August, in
    their respective states.

In 2005, two lawsuits were filed in the EDNY purporting to be
    nationwide class actions on behalf of all consumers and
    third-party payors, excluding governmental entities, which have
    made or will make payments for their members or insured patients
    being prescribed Zyprexa. These actions have now been
    consolidated into a single lawsuit, which is brought under
    certain state consumer protection statutes, the federal civil
    RICO statute, and common law theories, seeking a refund of the
    cost of Zyprexa, treble damages, punitive damages, and
    attorneys  fees. Two additional lawsuits were filed in the
    EDNY in 2006 on similar grounds. In September

-41-

2008, Judge Weinstein certified a class consisting of
    third-party payors, excluding governmental entities and
    individual consumers. We appealed the certification order, and
    Judge Weinstein s order denying our motion for summary
    judgment, in September 2008. In 2007, The Pennsylvania Employees
    Trust Fund brought claims in state court in Pennsylvania as
    insurer of Pennsylvania state employees, who were prescribed
    Zyprexa on similar grounds as described in the New York cases.
    As with the product liability suits, these lawsuits allege that
    we inadequately tested for and warned about side effects of
    Zyprexa and improperly promoted the drug. The Pennsylvania case
    is set for trial in October 2009.

We cannot determine with certainty the additional number of
    lawsuits and claims that may be asserted. The ultimate
    resolution of Zyprexa product liability and related litigation
    could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results
    of operations, liquidity, and financial position.

In addition, we have been named as a defendant in numerous other
    product liability lawsuits involving primarily
    diethylstilbestrol (DES) and thimerosal. The majority of these
    claims are covered by insurance, subject to deductibles and
    coverage limits.

Because of the nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible
    that we could become subject to large numbers of product
    liability and related claims for other products in the future.
    In the past few years, we have experienced difficulties in
    obtaining product liability insurance due to a very restrictive
    insurance market. Therefore, for substantially all of our
    currently marketed products, we have been and expect that we
    will continue to be completely self-insured for future product
    liability losses. In addition, there is no assurance that we
    will be able to fully collect from our insurance carriers in the
    future.

PRIVATE
    SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995   A CAUTION
    CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we caution investors that any
    forward-looking statements or projections made by us, including
    those made in this document, are based on management s
    expectations at the time they are made, but they are subject to
    risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ
    materially from those projected. Economic, competitive,
    governmental, technological, legal, and other factors that may
    affect our operations and prospects are discussed earlier in
    this section and our most recent report on
     Forms 10-Q 
    and  10-K 
    filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake
    no duty to update forward-looking statements.

Item 7A.    

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

You can find quantitative and qualitative disclosures about
    market risk ( e.g.,  interest rate risk) in Part II,
    Item 7 at  Review of Operations   Financial
    Condition.  That information is incorporated in this report
    by reference.

-42-

Item 8.    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data

Consolidated
    Statements of Operations  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

-43-

Consolidated
    Balance Sheets  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

-44-

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

-45-

Consolidated
    Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

See notes to consolidated financial statements

-46-

Segment
    Information  

We operate in one significant business segment   human
    pharmaceutical products. Operations of the animal health
    business segment are not material and share many of the same
    economic and operating characteristics as human pharmaceutical
    products. Therefore, they are included with pharmaceutical
    products for purposes of segment reporting.

1   

Net sales are attributed to the countries based on the location
    of the customer.

The largest category of products is the neurosciences group,
    which includes Zyprexa, Cymbalta, Strattera, and Prozac.
    Endocrinology products consist primarily of Humalog, Humulin,
    Byetta, Actos, Evista, Forteo, and Humatrope. Oncology products
    consist primarily of Gemzar and Alimta. Cardiovascular products
    consist primarily of Cialis, ReoPro, and Xigris. Animal health
    products include Posilac, Tylan, Rumensin, Coban, and other
    products for livestock and poultry, and Comfortis and other
    products for companion animals. The other pharmaceuticals
    category includes anti-infectives, primarily Ceclor and
    Vancocin, and other miscellaneous pharmaceutical products and
    services.

Most of our pharmaceutical products are distributed through
    wholesalers that serve pharmacies, physicians and other health
    care professionals, and hospitals. In 2008, our three largest
    wholesalers each accounted for between 12 percent and
    16 percent of consolidated net sales. Further, they each
    accounted for between 10 percent and 15 percent of
    accounts receivable as of December 31, 2008. Animal health
    products are sold primarily to wholesale distributors.

Our business segments are distinguished by the ultimate end user
    of the product: humans or animals. Performance is evaluated
    based on profit or loss from operations before income taxes. The
    accounting policies of the individual segments are substantially
    the same as those described in the summary of significant
    accounting policies in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements. Income before income taxes for the animal health
    business was approximately $192 million, $173 million,
    and $184 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.

-47-

The assets of the animal health business are intermixed with
    those of the pharmaceutical products business. Long-lived assets
    disclosed above consist of property and equipment and certain
    sundry assets.

We are exposed to the risk of changes in social, political, and
    economic conditions inherent in foreign operations, and our
    results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are
    affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

-48-

Selected
    Quarterly Data (unaudited)  

Our common stock is listed on the New York, London, and Swiss
    stock exchanges.

1   

We incurred tax expense of $764.3 million in 2008, despite
    having a loss before income taxes of $1.31 billion. Our net
    loss was driven by the $4.69 billion acquired IPR D
    charge for ImClone in the fourth quarter and the
    $1.48 billion Zyprexa investigation settlements recorded in
    the third quarter. The IPR D charge was not tax deductible,
    and only a portion of the Zyprexa investigation settlements was
    deductible. In addition, we recorded tax expense associated with
    the ImClone acquisition in the fourth quarter, as well as a
    discrete income tax benefit of $210.3 million in the first
    quarter for the resolution of the IRS audit.

-49-

Selected
    Financial Data (unaudited)  

NM   Not Meaningful

1  

Reflects the impact of a cumulative effect of a change in
    accounting principle in 2005 of $22.0 million, net of
    income taxes of $11.8 million. The diluted earnings per
    share impact of this cumulative effect of a change in accounting
    principle was $.02. The net income per diluted share before the
    cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle was $1.83. 

2  

Reflects the ICOS acquisition, effective January 29, 2007.
    See Note 3 for additional information. 

3  

We incurred tax expense of $764.3 million in 2008, despite
    having a loss before income taxes of $1.31 billion. Our net
    loss was driven by the $4.69 billion acquired IPR D
    charge for ImClone and the $1.48 billion  

-50-

Zyprexa investigation settlements. The IPR D charge was not
    tax deductible, and only a portion of the Zyprexa investigation
    settlements was deductible. In addition, we recorded tax expense
    associated with the ImClone acquisition, as well as a discrete
    income tax benefit of $210.3 million for the resolution of
    the IRS audit. 

4  

The increase reflects the in-process research and development
    expense of $4.69 billion associated with the ImClone
    acquisition and $1.48 billion associated with the Zyprexa
    investigation settlements. 

-51-

Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements  

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY AND
    SUBSIDIARIES

(Dollars in millions, except
    per-share data)

Note 1:    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

Basis of presentation:  The accompanying consolidated
    financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
    accounting practices generally accepted in the United States
    (GAAP). The accounts of all wholly owned and majority-owned
    subsidiaries are included in the consolidated financial
    statements. Where our ownership of consolidated subsidiaries is
    less than 100 percent, the outside shareholders 
    interests are reflected in other noncurrent liabilities. All
    intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP
    requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
    affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues,
    expenses, and related disclosures at the date of the financial
    statements and during the reporting period. Actual results could
    differ from those estimates.

All per-share amounts, unless otherwise noted in the footnotes,
    are presented on a diluted basis, that is, based on the
    weighted-average number of outstanding common shares plus the
    effect of dilutive stock options and other incremental shares.

Cash equivalents:  We consider all highly liquid
    investments with a maturity of three months or less from the
    date of purchase to be cash equivalents. The cost of these
    investments approximates fair value. Included in cash
    equivalents at December 31, 2008, is restricted cash of
    $339.0 million related to the debt assumed with the ImClone
    acquisition, which is expected to be paid in the first quarter
    of 2009.

Inventories:  We state all inventories at the lower of
    cost or market. We use the
     last-in, 
    first-out (LIFO) method for the majority of our inventories
    located in the continental United States, or approximately
    45 percent of our total inventories. Other inventories are
    valued by the
     first-in, 
    first-out (FIFO) method. FIFO cost approximates current
    replacement cost. Inventories at December 31 consisted of the
    following:

Investments:  Substantially all of our investments in debt
    and marketable equity securities are classified as
    available-for-sale. Available-for-sale securities are carried at
    fair value with the unrealized gains and losses, net of tax,
    reported in other comprehensive income. Unrealized losses
    considered to be other-than-temporary are recognized in
    earnings. Factors we consider in making this evaluation include
    company-specific drivers of the decrease in fair value, status
    of projects in development, near-term prospects of the issuer,
    the length of time the value has been depressed, and the
    financial condition of the industry. We do not evaluate
    cost-method investments for impairment unless there is an
    indicator of impairment. We review these investments for
    indicators of impairment on a regular basis. Realized gains and
    losses on sales of available-for-sale securities are computed
    based upon specific identification of the initial cost adjusted
    for any other-than-temporary declines in fair value. Investments
    in companies over which we have significant influence but not a
    controlling interest are accounted for using the equity method
    with our share of earnings or losses reported in
    other   net. We own no investments that are considered
    to be trading securities.

Risk-management instruments:  Our derivative activities
    are initiated within the guidelines of documented corporate
    risk-management policies and do not create additional risk
    because gains and losses on derivative

-52-

contracts offset losses and gains on the assets, liabilities,
    and transactions being hedged. As derivative contracts are
    initiated, we designate the instruments individually as either a
    fair value hedge or a cash flow hedge. Management reviews the
    correlation and effectiveness of our derivatives on a quarterly
    basis.

For derivative contracts that are designated and qualify as fair
    value hedges, the derivative instrument is marked to market with
    gains and losses recognized currently in income to offset the
    respective losses and gains recognized on the underlying
    exposure. For derivative contracts that are designated and
    qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of gains and
    losses on these contracts is reported as a component of other
    comprehensive income and reclassified into earnings in the same
    period the hedged transaction affects earnings. Hedge
    ineffectiveness is immediately recognized in earnings.
    Derivative contracts that are not designated as hedging
    instruments are recorded at fair value with the gain or loss
    recognized in current earnings during the period of change.

We may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts
    to reduce the effect of fluctuating currency exchange rates
    (principally the euro, the British pound, and the Japanese yen).
    Foreign currency derivatives used for hedging are put in place
    using the same or like currencies and duration as the underlying
    exposures. Forward contracts are principally used to manage
    exposures arising from subsidiary trade and loan payables and
    receivables denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts
    are recorded at fair value with the gain or loss recognized in
    other   net. The purchased option contracts are used
    to hedge anticipated foreign currency transactions, primarily
    intercompany inventory activities expected to occur within the
    next year. These contracts are designated as cash flow hedges of
    those future transactions and the impact on earnings is included
    in cost of sales. We may enter into foreign currency forward
    contracts and currency swaps as fair value hedges of firm
    commitments. Forward and option contracts generally have
    maturities not exceeding 12 months.

In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to
    fluctuations in interest rates. These fluctuations can vary the
    costs of financing, investing, and operating. We address a
    portion of these risks through a controlled program of risk
    management that includes the use of derivative financial
    instruments. The objective of controlling these risks is to
    limit the impact of fluctuations in interest rates on earnings.
    Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in
    short-term U.S. dollar interest rates. In an effort to
    manage interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an
    acceptable balance between fixed and floating rate debt and
    investment positions and may enter into interest rate swaps or
    collars to help maintain that balance. Interest rate swaps or
    collars that convert our fixed-rate debt or investments to a
    floating rate are designated as fair value hedges of the
    underlying instruments. Interest rate swaps or collars that
    convert floating rate debt or investments to a fixed rate are
    designated as cash flow hedges. Interest expense on the debt is
    adjusted to include the payments made or received under the swap
    agreements.

Goodwill and other intangibles:  Goodwill is not
    amortized. All other intangibles arising from acquisitions and
    research alliances have finite lives and are amortized over
    their estimated useful lives, ranging from 5 to 20 years,
    using the straight-line method. The weighted-average
    amortization period for developed product technology is
    approximately 12 years. Amortization expense for 2008,
    2007, and 2006 was $193.4 million, $172.8 million, and
    $7.6 million before tax, respectively. The estimated
    amortization expense for each of the five succeeding years
    approximates $280 million before tax, per year.
    Substantially all of the amortization expense is included in
    cost of sales. See Note 3 for further discussion of
    goodwill and other intangibles acquired in 2008 and 2007.

-53-

Goodwill and other intangible assets at December 31 were as
    follows:

Goodwill and net other intangibles are reviewed to assess
    recoverability at least annually and when certain impairment
    indicators are present. No significant impairments occurred with
    respect to the carrying value of our goodwill or other
    intangible assets in 2008, 2007, or 2006.

Property and equipment:  Property and equipment is stated
    on the basis of cost. Provisions for depreciation of buildings
    and equipment are computed generally by the straight-line method
    at rates based on their estimated useful lives (12 to
    50 years for buildings and 3 to 18 years for
    equipment). We review the carrying value of long-lived assets
    for potential impairment on a periodic basis and whenever events
    or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value of an
    asset may not be recoverable. Impairment is determined by
    comparing projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by
    the asset to its carrying value. If an impairment is identified,
    a loss is recorded equal to the excess of the asset s net
    book value over its fair value, and the cost basis is adjusted.

At December 31, property and equipment consisted of the
    following:

Depreciation expense for 2008, 2007, and 2006 was
    $731.7 million, $682.3 million, and
    $627.4 million, respectively. Approximately
    $48.2 million, $95.3 million, and $106.7 million
    of interest costs were capitalized as part of property and
    equipment in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Total rental
    expense for all leases, including contingent rentals (not
    material), amounted to approximately $327.4 million,
    $294.2 million, and $293.6 million for 2008, 2007, and
    2006, respectively. Assets under capital leases included in
    property and equipment in the consolidated balance sheets,
    capital lease obligations entered into, and future minimum
    rental commitments are not material.

Litigation and environmental liabilities:  Litigation
    accruals and environmental liabilities and the related estimated
    insurance recoverables are reflected on a gross basis as
    liabilities and assets, respectively, on our consolidated
    balance sheets. With respect to the product liability claims
    currently asserted against us, we have accrued for our estimated
    exposures to the extent they are both probable and estimable
    based on the information available to us. We accrue for certain
    product liability claims incurred but not filed to the extent we
    can formulate a reasonable estimate of their costs. We estimate
    these expenses based primarily on historical claims experience
    and data regarding product usage. Legal defense costs expected
    to be incurred in connection with significant product liability
    loss contingencies are accrued when probable and reasonably
    estimable. A

-54-

portion of the costs associated with defending and disposing of
    these suits is covered by insurance. We record receivables for
    insurance-related recoveries when it is probable they will be
    realized. These receivables are classified as a reduction of the
    litigation charges on the statement of income. We estimate
    insurance recoverables based on existing deductibles, coverage
    limits, our assessment of any defenses to coverage that might be
    raised by the carriers, and the existing and projected future
    level of insolvencies among the insurance carriers. However, for
    substantially all of our currently marketed products, we are
    completely self-insured for future product liability losses.

Revenue recognition:  We recognize revenue from sales of
    products at the time title of goods passes to the buyer and the
    buyer assumes the risks and rewards of ownership. For more than
    90 percent of our sales, this is at the time products are
    shipped to the customer, typically a wholesale distributor or a
    major retail chain. The remaining sales are recorded at the
    point of delivery. Provisions for returns, discounts, and
    rebates are established in the same period the related sales are
    recorded.

We also generate income as a result of collaboration agreements.
    Revenue from co-promotion services is based upon net sales
    reported by our co-promotion partners and, if applicable, the
    number of sales calls we perform. Initial fees we receive from
    the partnering of our compounds under development are amortized
    through the expected product approval date. Initial fees
    received from out-licensing agreements that include both the
    sale of marketing rights to our commercialized products and a
    related commitment to supply the products are generally
    recognized as net sales over the term of the supply agreement.
    We immediately recognize the full amount of milestone payments
    due to us upon the achievement of the milestone event if the
    event is substantive, objectively determinable, and represents
    an important point in the development life cycle of the
    pharmaceutical product. Milestone payments earned by us are
    generally recorded in other   net.

Royalty revenue from licensees, which are based on third-party
    sales of licensed products and technology, are recorded as
    earned in accordance with the contract terms when third-party
    sales can be reasonably measured and collection of the funds is
    reasonably assured. This royalty revenue is included in net
    sales.

Acquired research and development:  We recognize as
    incurred the cost of directly acquiring assets to be used in the
    research and development process that have not yet received
    regulatory approval for marketing and for which no alternative
    future use has been identified. Once the product has obtained
    regulatory approval, we capitalize the milestones paid and
    amortize them over the period benefited. Milestones paid prior
    to regulatory approval of the product are generally expensed
    when the event requiring payment of the milestone occurs.

Other   net:  Other   net consisted of
    the following:

The joint venture income represents our share of the Lilly ICOS
    LLC joint venture results of operations, net of income taxes. We
    acquired the outstanding ownership of the joint venture in
    January 2007 as a result of our acquisition of ICOS. See
    Note 3 for further discussion.

Income taxes:  Deferred taxes are recognized for the
    future tax effects of temporary differences between financial
    and income tax reporting based on enacted tax laws and rates.
    Federal income taxes are provided on the portion of the income
    of foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted to the
    United States and be taxable.

We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only
    if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be
    sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the
    technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in
    the financial statements from such a position are measured based
    on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent
    likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution.

-55-

Earnings per share:  We calculate basic earnings per share
    based on the weighted-average number of outstanding common
    shares and incremental shares. We calculate diluted earnings per
    share based on the weighted-average number of outstanding common
    shares plus the effect of dilutive stock options and other
    incremental shares. See Note 11 for further discussion.

Stock-based compensation:  We recognize the fair value of
    stock-based compensation as expense over the requisite service
    period of the individual grantees, which generally equals the
    vesting period. Under our policy all stock-based awards are
    approved prior to the date of grant. The Compensation Committee
    of the Board of Directors approves the value of the award and
    date of grant. Stock-based compensation that is awarded as part
    of our annual equity grant is made on a specific grant date
    scheduled in advance.

Reclassifications:  Certain reclassifications have been
    made to the December 31, 2007 and 2006 consolidated
    financial statements and accompanying notes to conform with the
    December 31, 2008 presentation.

Note 2:    

Implementation
    of New Financial Accounting Pronouncements  

In March 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
    issued Statement No. 161, Disclosures about Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities, an amendment of FASB
    Statement No. 133 (SFAS 161). SFAS 161 applies to
    all derivative instruments and related hedged items accounted
    for under FASB Statement No. 133, Accounting for Derivative
    Instruments and Hedging Activities. This Statement requires
    entities to provide enhanced disclosures about how and why an
    entity uses derivative instruments, how derivative instruments
    and related hedged items are accounted for under Statement 133
    and its related interpretations, and how derivative instruments
    and related hedged items affect an entity s financial
    position, results of operations, and cash flows. This Statement
    is effective for us January 1, 2009.

We adopted the provisions of Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF)
    Issue
     No. 07-3 
     (EITF 07-3), 
    Accounting for Nonrefundable Advance Payments for Goods or
    Services Received for Use in Future Research and Development
    Activities, on January 1, 2008. Pursuant to
     EITF 07-3, 
    nonrefundable advance payments for goods or services that will
    be used or rendered for future research and development
    activities should be deferred and capitalized. Such amounts
    should be recognized as an expense when the related goods are
    delivered or services are performed, or when the goods or
    services are no longer expected to be received. This Issue is to
    be applied prospectively for contracts entered into on or after
    the effective date.

We adopted the provisions of FASB Statement No. 157
    (SFAS 157), Fair Value Measurements, on January 1,
    2008. SFAS 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework
    for measuring fair value in GAAP, and expands disclosures about
    fair value measurements. The implementation of this Statement
    was not material to our consolidated financial position or
    results of operations.

In December 2007, the FASB revised and issued Statement
    No. 141, Business Combinations (SFAS 141(R)).
    SFAS 141(R) changes how the acquisition method is applied
    in accordance with SFAS 141. The primary revisions to this
    Statement require an acquirer in a business combination to
    measure assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any
    noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date,
    at their fair values as of that date, with limited exceptions
    specified in the Statement. This Statement also requires the
    acquirer in a business combination achieved in stages to
    recognize the identifiable assets and liabilities, as well as
    the noncontrolling interest in the acquiree, at the full amounts
    of their fair values (or other amounts determined in accordance
    with the Statement). Assets acquired and liabilities assumed
    arising from contractual contingencies as of the acquisition
    date are to be measured at their acquisition-date fair values,
    and assets or liabilities arising from all other contingencies
    as of the acquisition date are to be measured at their
    acquisition-date fair value, only if it is more likely than not
    that they meet the definition of an asset or a liability in FASB
    Concepts Statement No. 6, Elements of Financial Statements.
    This Statement significantly amends other Statements and
    authoritative guidance, including FASB Interpretation
    No. 4, Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to
    Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method, and
    now requires the capitalization of research and development
    assets acquired in a business combination at their
    acquisition-date fair values, separately from goodwill.
    SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, was also
    amended by this Statement to require the acquirer to recognize
    changes in the amount of its deferred tax benefits that are
    recognizable because of a business combination either in income
    from continuing operations in the period of the combination or
    directly

-56-

in contributed capital, depending on the circumstances. This
    Statement is effective for us for business combinations for
    which the acquisition date is on or after January 1, 2009.

In December 2007, in conjunction with SFAS 141(R), the FASB
    issued Statement No. 160, Accounting for Noncontrolling
    Interests. This Statement amends Accounting Research
    Bulletin No. 51, Consolidated Financial Statements
    (ARB 51), by requiring companies to report a noncontrolling
    interest in a subsidiary as equity in its consolidated financial
    statements. Disclosure of the amounts of consolidated net income
    attributable to the parent and the noncontrolling interest will
    be required. This Statement also clarifies that transactions
    that result in a change in a parent s ownership interest in
    a subsidiary that do not result in deconsolidation will be
    treated as equity transactions, while a gain or loss will be
    recognized by the parent when a subsidiary is deconsolidated.
    This Statement is effective for us January 1, 2009, and we
    do not anticipate the implementation will be material to our
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.

In December 2007, the FASB ratified the consensus reached by the
    EITF on Issue
     No. 07-1 
     (EITF 07-1), 
    Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements.
     EITF 07-1 
    defines collaborative arrangements and establishes reporting
    requirements for transactions between participants in a
    collaborative arrangement and between participants in the
    arrangement and third parties. This Issue is effective for us
    beginning January 1, 2009 and will be applied
    retrospectively to all prior periods presented for all
    collaborative arrangements existing as of the effective date.
    The implementation of this Issue will not be material to our
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.

We adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation (FIN)
    No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes, on
    January 1, 2007. FIN 48 prescribes a recognition
    threshold and measurement attribute for the financial statement
    recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected
    to be taken in a tax return. See Note 12 for further
    discussion of the impact of adopting this Interpretation.

Note 3:    

Acquisitions  

During 2008 and 2007, we acquired several businesses. These
    acquisitions were accounted for as business combinations under
    the purchase method of accounting. Under the purchase method of
    accounting, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were
    recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition
    date in our consolidated financial statements. The determination
    of estimated fair value required management to make significant
    estimates and assumptions. The excess of the purchase price over
    the fair value of the acquired net assets, where applicable, has
    been recorded as goodwill. The results of operations of these
    acquisitions are included in our consolidated financial
    statements from the date of acquisition.

Most of these acquisitions included in-process research and
    development (IPR D), which represented compounds, new
    indications, or line extensions under development that had not
    yet achieved regulatory approval for marketing. There are
    several methods that can be used to determine the estimated fair
    value of the IPR D acquired in a business combination. We
    utilized the  income method,  which applies a
    probability weighting to the estimated future net cash flows
    that are derived from projected sales revenues and estimated
    costs. These projections are based on factors such as relevant
    market size, patent protection, historical pricing of similar
    products, and expected industry trends. The estimated future net
    cash flows are then discounted to the present value using an
    appropriate discount rate. This analysis is performed for each
    project independently. In accordance with FIN 4,
    Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business
    Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method, these
    acquired IPR D intangible assets totaling
    $4.71 billion and $340.5 million in 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, were expensed immediately subsequent to the
    acquisition because the products had no alternative future use.
    The ongoing activities with respect to each of these products in
    development are not material to our research and development
    expenses.

In addition to the acquisitions of businesses, we also acquired
    several products in development. The acquired IPR D related
    to these products of $122.0 million and $405.1 million
    in 2008 and 2007, respectively, was also written off by a charge
    to income immediately upon acquisition because the products had
    no alternative future use.

-57-

ImClone
    Acquisition  

On November 24, 2008, we acquired all of the outstanding
    shares of ImClone Systems Inc. (ImClone), a biopharmaceutical
    company focused on advancing oncology care, for a total purchase
    price of approximately $6.5 billion, which was financed
    through borrowings. This strategic combination will offer both
    targeted therapies and oncolytic agents along with a pipeline
    spanning all phases of clinical development. The combination
    also expands our biotechnology capabilities.

The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination
    under the purchase method of accounting, resulting in goodwill
    of $419.5 million. No portion of this goodwill is expected
    to be deductible for tax purposes.

Allocation
    of Purchase Price   

We are currently determining the fair values of a significant
    portion of these net assets. The purchase price has been
    preliminarily allocated based on an estimate of the fair value
    of assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of
    acquisition. The final determination of these fair values will
    be completed as soon as possible but no later than one year from
    the acquisition date. Although the final determination may
    result in asset and liability fair values that are different
    than the preliminary estimates of these amounts included herein,
    it is not expected that those differences will be material to
    our financial results.

1   

This intangible asset will be
    amortized on a straight-line basis through 2023 in the U.S. and
    2018 in the rest of the world.

All of the estimated fair value of the acquired IPR D is
    attributable to oncology-related products in development,
    including $1.33 billion to line extensions for Erbitux. A
    significant portion (81 percent) of the remaining value of
    acquired IPR D is attributable to two compounds in
    Phase III clinical testing and one compound in
    Phase II clinical testing, all targeted to treat various
    forms of cancers. The discount rate we used in valuing the
    acquired IPR D projects was 13.5 percent, and the
    charge for acquired IPR D of $4.69 billion recorded in
    the fourth quarter of 2008, was not deductible for tax purposes.

-58-

Pro
    Forma Financial Information   

The following unaudited pro forma financial information presents
    the combined results of our operations with ImClone as if the
    acquisition and the financing for the acquisition had occurred
    as of the beginning of each of the years presented. We have
    adjusted the historical consolidated financial information to
    give effect to pro forma events that are directly attributable
    to the acquisition. The unaudited pro forma financial
    information is not necessarily indicative of what our
    consolidated results of operations actually would have been had
    we completed the acquisition at the beginning of each year. In
    addition, the unaudited pro forma financial information does not
    attempt to project the future results of operations of our
    combined company.

1   

The unaudited pro forma financial
    information above excludes the non-recurring charge incurred for
    acquired IPR D of $4.69 billion and other
    merger-related costs.

The unaudited pro forma financial information above reflects the
    following:

a reduction of the amortization of ImClone s deferred
    income of $86.2 million (2008) and $98.4 million
    (2007);

the increase of amortization expense of $78.8 million in
    2008 and 2007 related to the estimated fair value of
    identifiable intangible assets from the purchase price
    allocation which are being amortized over their estimated useful
    lives through 2023 in the U.S. and through 2018 in the rest
    of the world. The change in depreciation expense related to the
    change in the estimated fair value of property and equipment
    from the book value at the time of the acquisition was not
    material;

the adjustment to increase interest expense related to the debt
    incurred to finance the acquisition and the adjustment to
    decrease interest income related to the lost interest income on
    the cash used to purchase ImClone by a total of
    $301.0 million in 2008 and 2007;

the reduction of ImClone s income tax expense to provide
    for income taxes at the statutory tax rate and the adjustment to
    income taxes for pro forma adjustments at the statutory tax
    rate, totaling $139.3 million (2008) and
    $189.5 million (2007). This excludes the acquired
    IPR D charge of $4.69 billion, which was not tax
    deductible;

certain reclassifications to conform to accounting policies and
    classifications that are consistent with our practices (e.g.,
    ImClone s license fees and milestones were classified as
    other   net, rather than net sales).

Posilac  

On October 1, 2008, we acquired the worldwide rights to the
    dairy cow supplement Posilac, as well as the product s
    supporting operations, from Monsanto Company (Monsanto). The
    acquisition of Posilac provides us with a product that
    complements those of our animal health business. Under the terms
    of the agreement, we acquired the rights to the Posilac brand,
    as well as the product s U.S. sales force and
    manufacturing facility, for an aggregate purchase price of
    $403.9 million, which includes a $300.0 million
    upfront payment, transaction costs, and an accrual for
    contingent consideration to Monsanto based on estimated future
    Posilac sales for which payment is considered likely beyond a
    reasonable doubt.

This acquisition has been accounted for as a business
    combination under the purchase method of accounting. We
    allocated $204.3 million to identifiable intangible assets
    related to Posilac, $167.6 million to inventories, and
    $99.5 million of the purchase price to property and
    equipment. We also assumed $67.5 million of liabilities.
    Substantially all of the identifiable intangible assets are
    being amortized over their estimated remaining useful lives of
    20 years. The amount allocated to each of the intangible
    assets acquired is deductible for tax purposes.

-59-

SGX
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

On August 20, 2008, we acquired all of the outstanding
    common stock of SGX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (SGX), a collaboration
    partner since 2003. The acquisition allows us to integrate
    SGX s structure-guided drug discovery platform into our
    drug discovery efforts. It also gives us access to
    FAST  tm  ,

    SGX s fragment-based, protein structure guided drug
    discovery technology, and to a portfolio of preclinical oncology
    compounds focused on a number of kinase targets. Under the terms
    of the agreement, the outstanding shares of SGX common stock
    were redeemed for an aggregate purchase price, including
    transaction costs, of $66.8 million.

The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination
    under the purchase method of accounting. We allocated
    $29.6 million of the purchase price to deferred tax assets
    and $28.0 million to acquired IPR D. The acquired
    IPR D charge of $28.0 million was recorded in the
    third quarter of 2008 and was not deductible for tax purposes.

ICOS
    Corporation  

On January 29, 2007, we acquired all of the outstanding
    common stock of ICOS Corporation (ICOS), our partner in the
    Lilly ICOS LLC joint venture for the manufacture and sale of
    Cialis for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. The
    acquisition brought the full value of Cialis to us and enabled
    us to realize operational efficiencies in the further
    development, marketing, and selling of this product. The
    aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $2.3 billion
    was financed through borrowings.

The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination
    under the purchase method of accounting, resulting in goodwill
    of $646.7 million. No portion of this goodwill was
    deductible for tax purposes.

We determined the following estimated fair values for the assets
    acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of acquisition.

1   

This intangible asset will be
    amortized over the remaining expected patent lives of Cialis in
    each country; patent expiry dates range from 2015 to 2017.

New indications for and formulations of the Cialis compound in
    clinical testing at the time of the acquisition represented
    approximately 48 percent of the estimated fair value of the
    acquired IPR D. The remaining value of acquired IPR D
    represented several other products in development, with no one
    asset comprising a significant portion of this value. The
    discount rate we used in valuing the acquired IPR D
    projects was 20 percent, and the charge for acquired
    IPR D of $303.5 million recorded in the first quarter
    of 2007 was not deductible for tax purposes.

Other
    Acquisitions  

During the second quarter of 2007, we acquired all of the
    outstanding stock of both Hypnion, Inc. (Hypnion), a privately
    held neuroscience drug discovery company focused on sleep
    disorders, and Ivy Animal Health, Inc. (Ivy), a privately held
    applied research and pharmaceutical product development company
    focused on the animal health industry, for $445.0 million
    in cash.

-60-

The acquisition of Hypnion provided us with a broader and more
    substantive presence in the area of sleep disorder research and
    ownership of HY10275, a novel Phase II compound with a dual
    mechanism of action aimed at promoting better sleep onset and
    sleep maintenance. This was Hypnion s only significant
    asset. For this acquisition, we recorded an acquired IPR D
    charge of $291.1 million, which was not deductible for tax
    purposes. Because Hypnion was a development-stage company, the
    transaction was accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather
    than as a business combination and, therefore, goodwill was not
    recorded.

The acquisition of Ivy provides us with products that complement
    those of our animal health business. This acquisition has been
    accounted for as a business combination under the purchase
    method of accounting. We allocated $88.7 million of the
    purchase price to other identifiable intangible assets,
    primarily related to marketed products, $37.0 million to
    acquired IPR D, and $25.0 million to goodwill. The
    other identifiable intangible assets are being amortized over
    their estimated remaining useful lives of 10 to 20 years.
    The $37.0 million allocated to acquired IPR D was
    charged to expense in the second quarter of 2007. Goodwill
    resulting from this acquisition was fully allocated to the
    animal health business segment. The amount allocated to each of
    the intangible assets acquired, including goodwill of
    $25.0 million and the acquired IPR D of
    $37.0 million, was deductible for tax purposes.

Product
    Acquisitions  

In June 2008, we entered into a licensing and development
    agreement with TransPharma Medical Ltd. (TransPharma) to acquire
    rights to its product and related drug delivery system for the
    treatment of osteoporosis. The product, which is administered
    transdermally using TransPharma s proprietary technology,
    was in Phase II clinical testing, and had no alternative
    future use. Under the arrangement, we also gained non-exclusive
    access to TransPharma s ViaDerm drug delivery system for
    the product. As with many development-phase products, launch of
    the product, if approved, was not expected in the near term. The
    charge of $35.0 million for acquired IPR D related to
    this arrangement was included as expense in the second quarter
    of 2008 and is deductible for tax purposes.

In January 2008, our agreement with BioMS Medical Corp. to
    acquire the rights to its compound for the treatment of multiple
    sclerosis became effective. At the inception of this agreement,
    this compound was in the development stage (Phase III
    clinical trials) and had no alternative future use. As with many
    development-phase compounds, launch of the product, if approved,
    was not expected in the near term. The charge of
    $87.0 million for acquired IPR D related to this
    arrangement was included as expense in the first quarter of 2008
    and is deductible for tax purposes.

In October 2007, we entered into an agreement with Glenmark
    Pharmaceuticals Limited India to acquire the rights to a
    portfolio of transient receptor potential vanilloid sub-family 1
    (TRPV 1) antagonist molecules, including a clinical-phase
    compound. The compound was in early clinical phase development
    as a potential next-generation treatment for various pain
    conditions, including osteoarthritic pain, and had no
    alternative future use. As with many development-phase
    compounds, launch of the product, if approved, was not expected
    in the near term. The charge of $45.0 million for acquired
    IPR D was deductible for tax purposes and was included as
    expense in the fourth quarter of 2007. Development of this
    compound has been suspended.

In October 2007, we entered into a global strategic alliance
    with MacroGenics, Inc. (MacroGenics) to develop and
    commercialize teplizumab, a humanized anti-CD3 monoclonal
    antibody, as well as other potential next-generation anti-CD3
    molecules for use in the treatment of autoimmune diseases. As
    part of the arrangement, we acquired the exclusive rights to the
    molecule, which was in the development stage (Phase II/III
    clinical trial for individuals with recent-onset type 1
    diabetes) and had no alternative future use. As with many
    development-phase compounds, launch of the product, if approved,
    was not expected in the near term. The charge of
    $44.0 million for acquired IPR D was deductible for
    tax purposes and was included as expense in the fourth quarter
    of 2007.

In January 2007, we entered into an agreement with OSI
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to acquire the rights to its compound for
    the treatment of type 2 diabetes. At the inception of this
    agreement, this compound was in the development stage (Phase I
    clinical trials) and had no alternative future use. As with many
    development-phase compounds, launch of the product, if approved,
    was not expected in the near term. The charge of
    $25.0 million

-61-

for acquired IPR D related to this arrangement was included
    as expense in the first quarter of 2007 and was deductible for
    tax purposes.

In connection with these arrangements, our partners are
    generally entitled to future milestones and royalties based on
    sales should these products be approved for commercialization.

Note 4:    

Collaborations  

We often enter into collaborative arrangements to develop and
    commercialize drug candidates. Collaborative activities might
    include research and development, marketing and selling
    (including promotional activities and physician detailing),
    manufacturing, and distribution. These collaborations often
    require milestone and royalty or profit share payments,
    contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked
    to the success of the asset in development, as well as expense
    reimbursements or payments to the third party. Each
    collaboration is unique in nature and our more significant
    arrangements are discussed below.

Erbitux  

Prior to our acquisition, ImClone entered into several
    collaborations with respect to Erbitux, a product approved to
    fight cancer, while still in its development phase. The most
    significant collaborations operate in these geographic
    territories: the U.S., Japan, and Canada (Bristol-Myers Squibb);
    and worldwide except the U.S. and Canada (Merck KGaA). The
    agreements are expected to expire in 2018, upon which all of the
    rights with respect to Erbitux in the U.S. and Canada
    return to us.

Bristol-Myers
    Squibb Company   

Pursuant to a commercial agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb
    Company and E.R. Squibb (collectively, BMS), relating to
    Erbitux, ImClone is co-developing and co-promoting Erbitux in
    North America with BMS, and is co-developing and co-promoting
    Erbitux in Japan with BMS. The companies had jointly agreed to
    expand the investment in the ongoing clinical development plan
    for Erbitux to further explore its use in additional tumor
    types. Under this arrangement, Erbitux research and development
    and other costs, up to threshold amounts, are the sole
    responsibility of BMS, with costs in excess of the thresholds
    shared by both companies according to a predetermined ratio.

Responsibilities associated with clinical and other ongoing
    studies are apportioned between the parties as determined
    pursuant to the agreement. Collaborative reimbursements received
    by ImClone for supply of product for research and development,
    for a portion of royalty expenses, and for a portion of
    marketing, selling, and administrative expenses, are recorded as
    a reduction to the respective expense line items on the
    consolidated statement of operations. Royalty expense paid to
    third parties is included in costs of sales. We receive a
    distribution fee in the form of a royalty from BMS, based on a
    percentage of net sales in the U.S. and Canada, which is
    recorded in net sales.

We are responsible for the manufacture and supply of all
    requirements of Erbitux in bulk-form active pharmaceutical
    ingredient (API) for clinical and commercial use in the
    territory, and BMS will purchase all of its requirements of API
    for commercial use from us, subject to certain stipulations per
    the agreement. Sales of Erbitux to BMS for commercial use are
    reported in net sales.

Merck
    KGaA   

A development and license agreement between ImClone and Merck
    KGaA (Merck) with respect to Erbitux granted Merck exclusive
    rights to market Erbitux outside of North America and
    co-exclusive rights with BMS in Japan. Merck also has rights to
    manufacture Erbitux for supply in its territory. We manufacture
    and provide a portion of Merck s requirements for API; we
    also receive a royalty on the sales of Erbitux outside of the
    U.S. and Canada, both of which are included in net sales as
    earned. Collaborative reimbursements received for supply of
    product for research and development, reimbursement of a portion
    of royalty expense, and marketing, selling, and administrative
    expenses are recorded as a reduction to the respective expense
    line items on the consolidated statement of operations. Royalty
    expense paid to third parties is included in cost of sales.

-62-

Exenatide  

We are in a collaborative arrangement with Amylin
    Pharmaceuticals (Amylin) for the joint development, marketing,
    and selling of Byetta and other forms of exenatide such as
    exenatide once weekly. Byetta (exenatide injection) is presently
    approved as an adjunctive therapy to improve glycemic control in
    patients with type 2 diabetes who have not achieved adequate
    glycemic control using metformin, a sulfonylurea
     and/or  a
    thiazolidinediene (U.S. only), three common oral therapies
    for type 2 diabetes. Lilly and Amylin are co-promoting exenatide
    in the U.S. Amylin is responsible for manufacturing and
    primarily utilizes third-party contract manufacturing
    organizations to supply Byetta. However, Lilly is manufacturing
    Byetta pen delivery devices for Amylin. Lilly is responsible for
    development and commercialization costs outside the U.S.

Under the terms of our collaboration with Amylin, we report as
    revenue our 50 percent share of gross margin on sales in
    the U.S., 100 percent of sales outside the U.S., and our
    sales of Byetta pen delivery devices to Amylin. We recorded
    revenues of $396.1 million, $330.7 million, and
    $219.0 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, for
    Byetta. We pay Amylin a percentage of the gross margin of
    exenatide sales outside of the U.S., and these costs are
    recorded in cost of sales. Under the
     50 / 50 
    profit-sharing arrangement for the U.S., in addition to
    recording as revenue our 50 percent share of
    exenatide s gross margin, we also report 50 percent of
    U.S. research and development costs, and marketing and
    selling costs in the research and development and marketing,
    selling, and administrative line items, respectively, on the
    consolidated statements of income.

Exenatide once weekly is presently in Phase III clinical
    trials and has not received regulatory approval. Amylin is
    constructing and will operate a manufacturing facility for
    exenatide once weekly, and we have entered into a supply
    agreement in which Amylin will supply exenatide once weekly
    product to us for sales outside the U.S. The estimated
    total cost of the facility is approximately $550 million.
    In 2008, we paid $125.0 million to Amylin, which we will
    amortize to cost of sales over the estimated life of the supply
    agreement beginning with product launch. We would be required to
    reimburse Amylin for a portion of any future impairment of this
    facility, recognized in accordance with GAAP. A portion of the
    $125.0 million payment we made to Amylin would be
    creditable against any amount we would owe as a result of
    impairment. We have also agreed to loan up to
    $165.0 million to Amylin at an indexed rate beginning
    December 1, 2009, and any borrowings have to be repaid by
    June 30, 2014.

Cymbalta 

Boehringer
    Ingelheim   

We are in a collaborative arrangement with Boehringer Ingelheim
    (BI) to market and promote Cymbalta, a product for the treatment
    of major depressive disorder, diabetic peripheral neuropathic
    pain, generalized anxiety disorder, and fibromyalgia, outside
    the U.S. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we
    generally share equally in development, marketing, and selling
    expenses, and pay BI a commission on sales in the co-promotional
    territories. We manufacture the product for all territories.

Collaborative reimbursements or payments for the cost sharing of
    marketing, selling, and administrative expenses are recorded in
    the respective expense line items in the consolidated statement
    of operations. The commission paid to BI is recognized in
    marketing, selling, and administrative expenses.

Quintiles   

We are in a collaborative arrangement with Quintiles
    Transnational Corp. (Quintiles) to market and promote Cymbalta
    in the U.S. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement,
    Quintiles shares in the costs to co-promote Cymbalta with us. In
    exchange, Quintiles receives a payment based upon net sales.
    According to the current agreement, Quintiles  obligation
    to promote Cymbalta expires in 2009, and we will pay a lower
    rate on net sales for three years post their promotion efforts.
    The royalties paid to Quintiles are recorded in marketing,
    selling, and administrative expenses.

-63-

Prasugrel  

We are in a collaborative arrangement with Daiichi Sankyo
    Company, Limited (D-S) to develop, market, and promote
    prasugrel, an antiplatelet agent for the treatment of patients
    with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) who are being managed with
    an artery-opening procedure known as percutaneous coronary
    intervention (PCI). Prasugrel was approved for marketing by the
    European Commission under the tradename Efient in February 2009.
    We have submitted a new drug application to the FDA and are
    currently awaiting its decision. Within this arrangement, we
    have agreed to co-promote under the same trademark in certain
    territories (including the U.S. and five major European
    markets), while we have exclusive marketing rights in certain
    other territories. D-S has exclusive marketing rights in Japan.
    Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, we paid D-S an upfront
    license fee and agreed to pay future success milestones. Both
    parties share in the costs of the development and marketing in
    the co-promotion territories and share in the profits according
    to the terms specified in the agreement. D-S is responsible for
    supplying bulk product, but we will produce the finished product
    for our exclusive and co-promotion territories. Profits in the
    U.S. and other co-promotion territories will be shared
    according to the agreement. In our exclusive territories, we
    will pay D-S a royalty specific to those territories. Profit
    share payments made to D-S will be recorded as marketing,
    selling, and administrative expenses. All royalties paid to D-S
    will be recorded in cost of sales.

TPG-Axon
    Capital  

In 2008, we entered into an agreement with an affiliate of
    TPG-Axon Capital (TPG) for the Phase III development of our
    gamma-secretase inhibitor and our A-beta antibody, our two lead
    molecules for the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer s
    disease. Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, both we and TPG
    will provide funding for the Alzheimer s clinical trials.
    Funding from TPG will not exceed $325 million and could
    extend into 2014. In exchange for their funding, TPG may receive
    success-based milestones totaling $330 million and mid- to
    high-single digit royalties that are contingent upon the
    successful development of the Alzheimer s treatments. The
    royalties will be paid for approximately eight years after
    launch of a product. Reimbursements received from TPG for their
    portion of research and development costs incurred related to
    the Alzheimer s treatments are recorded as a reduction to
    the research and development expense line item on the
    consolidated statement of operations. The reimbursement from TPG
    is not expected to be material in any period.

Note 5:    

Asset
    Impairments, Restructuring, and Other Special Charges  

The components of the charges included in asset impairments,
    restructuring, and other special charges in our consolidated
    statements of income are described below.

Asset
    Impairments and Related Restructuring and Other
    Charges  

We incurred asset impairment, restructuring, and other special
    charges of $80.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2008.
    These charges were the result of decisions approved by
    management in the fourth quarter as well as previously announced
    strategic decisions. The primary components of this charge
    include non-cash asset impairments of $35.1 million for the
    write down of impaired assets, all of which have no future use,
    and other charges of $44.9 million, primarily related to
    severance and environmental cleanup charges in connection with
    previously announced strategic decisions made in prior periods.
    We anticipate that substantially all of these costs will be paid
    during the first quarter of 2009.

As discussed further in Note 14, in the third quarter of
    2008, we recorded a charge of $1.48 billion related to the
    Zyprexa investigations led by the U.S. Attorney for the
    Eastern District of Pennsylvania, as well as the resolution of a
    multi-state investigation regarding Zyprexa involving
    32 states and the District of Columbia.

Further, in the third quarter of 2008, as a result of our
    previously announced agreements with Covance Inc. (Covance),
    Quintiles Transnational Corp. (Quintiles), and Ingenix
    Pharmaceutical Services, Inc., doing business as i3 Statprobe
    (i3), and as part of our efforts to transform into a more
    flexible organization, we recognized asset impairments,
    restructuring, and other special charges of $182.4 million.
    We sold our Greenfield, Indiana site to Covance, a global drug
    development services firm, and entered into a
     10-year 
    service agreement under which Covance will provide preclinical
    toxicology work and perform additional

-64-

clinical trials for us as well as operate the site to meet our
    needs and those of other pharmaceutical industry clients. In
    addition, we signed agreements with Quintiles for clinical trial
    monitoring services and with i3 for clinical data management
    services. Components of the third-quarter restructuring charge
    include non-cash charges of $148.3 million primarily
    related to the loss on sale of assets sold to Covance, severance
    costs of $27.8 million, and exit costs of
    $6.3 million. Substantially all of these costs were paid in
    2008.

In the second quarter of 2008, we recognized restructuring and
    other special charges of $88.9 million. In addition, we
    recognized non-cash charges of $57.1 million for the write
    down of impaired manufacturing assets that had no future use,
    which were included in cost of sales. In April 2008, we
    announced a voluntary exit program that was offered to employees
    primarily in manufacturing. Components of the second-quarter
    restructuring charge include total severance costs of
    $53.5 million related to these programs and
    $35.4 million related to exit costs incurred during the
    second quarter in connection with previously announced strategic
    decisions made in prior periods. Substantially all of these
    costs were paid by the end of July 2008.

In March 2008, we terminated development of our AIR Insulin
    program, which was being conducted in collaboration with
    Alkermes, Inc. The program had been in Phase III clinical
    development as a potential treatment for type 1 and type 2
    diabetes. This decision was not a result of any observations
    during AIR Insulin trials relating to the safety of the product,
    but rather was a result of increasing uncertainties in the
    regulatory environment, and a thorough evaluation of the
    evolving commercial and clinical potential of the product
    compared to existing medical therapies. As a result of this
    decision, we halted our ongoing clinical studies and
    transitioned the AIR Insulin patients in these studies to other
    appropriate therapies. We implemented a patient program in the
    U.S., and other regions of the world where allowed, to provide
    clinical trial participants with appropriate financial support
    to fund their medications and diagnostic supplies through the
    end of 2008.

We recognized asset impairment, restructuring, and other special
    charges of $145.7 million in the first quarter of 2008.
    These charges were primarily related to the decision to
    terminate development of AIR Insulin. Components of these
    charges included non-cash charges of $40.9 million for the
    write down of impaired manufacturing assets that had no use
    beyond the AIR Insulin program, as well as charges of
    $91.7 million for estimated contractual obligations and
    wind-down costs associated with the termination of clinical
    trials and certain development activities, and costs associated
    with the patient program to transition participants from AIR
    Insulin. This amount includes an estimate of Alkermes 
    wind-down costs for which we were contractually obligated. The
    wind-down activities and patient programs were substantially
    complete by the end of 2008. The remaining component of these
    charges, $13.1 million, is related to exit costs incurred
    in the first quarter of 2008 in connection with previously
    announced strategic decisions made in prior periods.

We incurred asset impairment, restructuring, and other special
    charges of $67.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2007.
    These charges were a result of decisions approved by management
    in the fourth quarter as well as previously announced strategic
    decisions. Components of this charge include non-cash charges of
    $42.5 million for the write down of impaired assets, all of
    which have no future use, and other charges of
    $25.1 million, primarily related to additional severance
    and environmental cleanup charges related to previously
    announced strategic decisions. The impairment charges were
    necessary to adjust the carrying value of the assets to fair
    value. These restructuring activities were substantially
    complete at December 31, 2007.

In connection with previously announced strategic decisions, we
    recorded asset impairment, restructuring, and other special
    charges of $123.0 million in the first quarter of 2007.
    These charges primarily related to a voluntary severance program
    at one of our U.S. plants and other costs related to this
    action as well as management actions taken in the fourth quarter
    of 2006 as described below. The component of these charges
    related to the non-cash asset impairment was $67.6 million,
    and were necessary to adjust the carrying value of the assets to
    fair value. These restructuring activities were substantially
    complete at December 31, 2007.

In the fourth quarter of 2006, management approved plans to
    close two research and development facilities and one production
    facility outside the U.S. Management also made the decision
    to stop construction of a planned insulin manufacturing plant in
    the U.S. in an effort to increase productivity in research
    and development operations and to reduce excess manufacturing
    capacity. These decisions, as well as other strategic changes,
    resulted in non-cash charges of $308.8 million for the
    write down of certain impaired assets, substantially all of
    which have no future use, and other charges of
    $141.5 million, primarily related to

-65-

severance and contract termination payments. The impairment
    charges were necessary to adjust the carrying value of the
    assets to fair value. These restructuring activities were
    substantially complete at December 31, 2007.

Product
    Liability and Other Special Charges  

As a result of our product liability exposures, the substantial
    majority of which were related to Zyprexa, we recorded net
    pretax charges of $111.9 million and $494.9 million in
    2007 and 2006, respectively. These charges, which are net of
    anticipated insurance recoveries, include the costs of product
    liability settlements and related defense costs, reserves for
    product liability exposures and defense costs regarding known
    product liability claims, and expected future claims to the
    extent we could formulate a reasonable estimate of the probable
    number and cost of the claims. See Note 14 for further
    discussion.

Note 6:    

Financial
    Instruments and Investments  

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to credit risk
    consist principally of trade receivables and interest-bearing
    investments. Wholesale distributors of life-sciences products
    and managed care organizations account for a substantial portion
    of trade receivables; collateral is generally not required. The
    risk associated with this concentration is mitigated by our
    ongoing credit review procedures and insurance. We place
    substantially all of our interest-bearing investments with major
    financial institutions, in U.S. government securities, or
    with top-rated corporate issuers. At December 31, 2008, our
    investments in debt securities were comprised of 41 percent
    corporate securities, 34 percent asset-backed securities,
    and 25 percent U.S. government securities. In
    accordance with documented corporate policies, we limit the
    amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution or
    corporate issuer. We are exposed to credit-related losses in the
    event of nonperformance by counterparties to financial
    instruments but do not expect any counterparties to fail to meet
    their obligations given their high credit ratings.

Fair
    Value of Financial Instruments  

The following table summarizes certain fair value information at
    December 31 for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on
    a recurring basis, as well as the carrying amount of certain
    other investments:

NA   Not available

-66-

We determine fair values based on a market approach using quoted
    market values, significant other observable inputs for identical
    or comparable assets or liabilities, or discounted cash flow
    analyses, principally for long-term debt. The fair value of
    equity method and other investments is not readily available.
    Approximately $1.1 billion of our investments in debt
    securities mature within five years.

A summary of the fair value of available-for-sale securities in
    an unrealized gain or loss position and the amount of unrealized
    gains and losses (pretax) in other comprehensive income at
    December 31 follows:

The securities in an unrealized loss position are comprised of
    fixed-rate debt securities of varying maturities. The value of
    fixed income securities is sensitive to changes to the yield
    curve and other market conditions which led to the decline in
    value during 2008. Approximately 90 percent of the
    securities in a loss position are investment-grade debt
    securities. The majority of these securities first moved into an
    unrealized loss position during 2008. At this time, there is no
    indication of default on interest or principal payments for
    asset-backed securities. We have the intent and ability to hold
    the securities in a loss position until the market values
    recover or all of the underlying cash flows have been received
    and we have concluded that no other-than-temporary loss exists
    at December 31, 2008. The fair values of all of our auction
    rate securities and collateralized debt obligations held at
    December 31, 2008 were determined using Level 3
    inputs. We do not hold securities issued by structured
    investment vehicles at December 31, 2008.

The net adjustment to unrealized gains and losses (net of tax)
    on available-for-sale securities increased (decreased) other
    comprehensive income by $(125.8) million,
    $(5.4) million, and $0.3 million in 2008, 2007, and
    2006, respectively. Activity related to our available-for-sale
    investment portfolio was as follows:

During the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006,
    net losses related to ineffectiveness and net losses related to
    the portion of our risk-management hedging instruments, fair
    value and cash flow hedges, excluded from the assessment of
    effectiveness were not material.

We expect to reclassify an estimated $10.2 million of
    pretax net losses on cash flow hedges of the variability in
    expected future interest payments on floating rate debt from
    accumulated other comprehensive loss to earnings during 2009.

Available-for-sale investment securities are classified as
    long-term investments when they are likely to be held for more
    than one year because of our intent to hold securities in an
    unrealized loss position until the market values recover or all
    of the underlying cash flows have been received.

-67-

Note 7:    

Borrowings  

Long-term debt at December 31 consisted of the following:

In March 2007, we issued $2.50 billion of fixed-rate notes
    ($1.00 billion at 5.20 percent due in 2017;
    $700.0 million at 5.50 percent due in 2027; and
    $800.0 million at 5.55 percent due in 2037).

The $400.0 million of floating rate bonds outstanding at
    December 31, 2008 are due in 2037 and have variable
    interest rates at LIBOR plus our six-month credit spread,
    adjusted semiannually (total of 4.10 percent at
    December 31, 2008). We pay interest monthly on this
    borrowing program. We expect to refinance the bonds in 2009 and
    have classified them as current at December 31, 2008.

The 6.55 percent Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
    debentures are obligations of the ESOP but are shown on the
    consolidated balance sheet because we guarantee them. The
    principal and interest on the debt are funded by contributions
    from us and by dividends received on certain shares held by the
    ESOP. Because of the amortizing feature of the ESOP debt,
    bondholders will receive both interest and principal payments
    each quarter. The balance was $81.9 million and
    $90.6 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007,
    respectively, and is included in Other in the table above.

The aggregate amounts of maturities on long-term debt for the
    next five years are as follows: 2009, $420.4 million; 2010,
    $19.7 million; 2011, $13.1 million; 2012,
    $510.8 million; and 2013, $11.1 million.

At December 31, 2008 and 2007, short-term borrowings
    included $5.43 billion and $18.6 million,
    respectively, of notes payable to banks and commercial paper.
    Commercial paper was issued in late 2008 for the acquisition of
    ImClone. At December 31, 2008, we have $1.24 billion
    of unused committed bank credit facilities, $1.20 billion
    of which backs our commercial paper program. Additionally, in
    November 2008, we obtained a one-year short-term revolving
    credit facility in the amount of $4.00 billion as
     back-up, 
    alternative financing. Compensating balances and commitment fees
    are not material, and there are no conditions that are probable
    of occurring under which the lines may be withdrawn.

We have converted approximately 50 percent of all
    fixed-rate debt to floating rates through the use of interest
    rate swaps. The weighted-average effective borrowing rates based
    on debt obligations and interest rates at December 31, 2008
    and 2007, including the effects of interest rate swaps for
    hedged debt obligations, were 4.77 percent and
    5.47 percent, respectively.

In 2008, 2007, and 2006, cash payments of interest on borrowings
    totaled $203.1 million, $159.2 million, and
    $305.7 million, respectively, net of capitalized interest.

In accordance with the requirements of SFAS 133, the
    portion of our fixed-rate debt obligations that is hedged is
    reflected in the consolidated balance sheets as an amount equal
    to the sum of the debt s carrying value plus the fair value
    adjustment representing changes in fair value of the hedged debt
    attributable to movements in market interest rates subsequent to
    the inception of the hedge.

-68-

Note 8:    

Stock
    Plans  

Stock-based compensation expense in the amount of
    $255.3 million, $282.0 million, and
    $359.3 million was recognized in 2008, 2007, and 2006,
    respectively, as well as related tax benefits of
    $88.6 million, $96.4 million, and $115.9 million,
    respectively. Our stock-based compensation expense consists
    primarily of performance awards (PAs), shareholder value awards
    (SVAs), and stock options. We recognize the stock-based
    compensation expense over the requisite service period of the
    individual grantees, which generally equals the vesting period.
    We provide newly issued shares and treasury stock to satisfy
    stock option exercises and for the issuance of PA and SVA
    shares. We classify tax benefits resulting from tax deductions
    in excess of the compensation cost recognized for exercised
    stock options as a financing cash flow in the consolidated
    statements of cash flows.

At December 31, 2008, additional stock options, PAs, SVAs,
    or restricted stock grants may be granted under the 2002 Lilly
    Stock Plan for not more than 88.0 million shares.

Performance
    Award Program  

Performance awards (PAs) are granted to officers and management
    and are payable in shares of our common stock. The number of PA
    shares actually issued, if any, varies depending on the
    achievement of certain pre-established
     earnings-per-share 
    targets over a one-year period. PA shares are accounted for at
    fair value based upon the closing stock price on the date of
    grant and fully vest at the end of the fiscal year of the grant.
    The fair values of performance awards granted in 2008, 2007, and
    2006 were $51.22, $54.23, and $56.18, respectively. The number
    of shares ultimately issued for the performance award program is
    dependent upon the earnings achieved during the vesting period.
    Pursuant to this plan, approximately 2.5 million shares,
    2.3 million shares, and 1.7 million shares were issued
    in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively. Approximately
    2.8 million shares are expected to be issued in 2009.

Shareholder
    Value Award Program  

In 2007, we implemented a shareholder value award (SVA) program,
    which replaced our stock option program. SVAs are granted to
    officers and management and are payable in shares of common
    stock at the end of a three-year period. The number of shares
    actually issued varies depending on our stock price at the end
    of the three-year vesting period compared to pre-established
    target stock prices. We measure the fair value of the SVA unit
    on the grant date using a Monte Carlo simulation model. The
    Monte Carlo simulation model utilizes multiple input variables
    that determine the probability of satisfying the market
    condition stipulated in the award grant and calculates the fair
    value of the award. Expected volatilities utilized in the model
    are based on implied volatilities from traded options on our
    stock, historical volatility of our stock price, and other
    factors. Similarly, the dividend yield is based on historical
    experience and our estimate of future dividend yields. The
    risk-free interest rate is derived from the U.S. Treasury
    yield curve in effect at the time of grant. The weighted-average
    fair values of the SVA units granted during 2008 and 2007 were
    $43.46 and $49.85, respectively, determined using the following
    assumptions:

-69-

A summary of the SVA activity is presented below:

The maximum number of shares that could ultimately be issued
    upon vesting of the SVA units outstanding at December 31,
    2008, is 2.7 million. As of December 31, 2008, the
    total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to
    nonvested SVAs amounted to $46.7 million, which will be
    amortized over the weighted-average remaining requisite service
    period of 21.6 months.

Stock
    Option Program  

Stock options were granted in 2006 to officers and management at
    exercise prices equal to the fair market value of our stock
    price at the date of grant. No stock options were granted in
    2008 or 2007. Options fully vest three years from the grant date
    and have a term of 10 years. We utilized a lattice-based
    option valuation model for estimating the fair value of the
    stock options. The lattice model allows the use of a range of
    assumptions related to volatility, risk-free interest rate, and
    employee exercise behavior. Expected volatilities utilized in
    the lattice model are based on implied volatilities from traded
    options on our stock, historical volatility of our stock price,
    and other factors. Similarly, the dividend yield is based on
    historical experience and our estimate of future dividend
    yields. The risk-free interest rate is derived from the
    U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.
    The model incorporates exercise and post-vesting forfeiture
    assumptions based on an analysis of historical data. The
    expected life of the 2006 grants is derived from the output of
    the lattice model. The weighted-average fair values of the
    individual options granted during 2006 were $15.61, determined
    using the following assumptions:

Stock option activity during 2008 is summarized below:

-70-

A summary of the status of nonvested options as of
    December 31, 2008, and changes during the year then ended,
    is presented below:

The intrinsic value of options exercised during 2008, 2007, and
    2006 amounted to $4.8 million, $1.5 million, and
    $40.8 million, respectively. The total grant date fair
    value of options vested during 2008, 2007, and 2006 amounted to
    $84.1 million, $381.8 million, and
    $249.1 million, respectively. We received cash of
    $2.9 million, $15.2 million, and $66.2 million
    from exercises of stock options during 2008, 2007, and 2006,
    respectively, and recognized related tax benefits of
    $0.5 million, $0.4 million, and $11.3 million
    during those same years.

As of December 31, 2008, there was no significant remaining
    unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock
    options.

Note 9:    

Other
    Assets and Other Liabilities  

Our other receivables include receivables from our collaboration
    partners and a variety of other items. The decrease in other
    receivables is primarily attributable to a decrease in income
    tax receivable, and lower insurance recoverables.

Our sundry assets primarily include our deferred tax assets
    (Note 12), capitalized computer software, and the fair
    value of our interest rate swaps. The increase in sundry assets
    is primarily attributable to an increase in deferred tax assets
    and an increase in the fair value of our interest rate swaps.

Our other current liabilities include product litigation, tax
    liabilities, and a variety of other items. The increase in other
    current liabilities is caused primarily by an increase in
    product litigation liabilities, specifically, the
    $1.42 billion related to the EDPA settlements discussed in
    Note 14, and an increase in current deferred taxes.

Our other noncurrent liabilities include deferred income from
    our collaboration and out-licensing arrangements, the long-term
    portion of our estimated product return liabilities, product
    litigation, and a variety of other items. The increase in other
    noncurrent liabilities is primarily due to an increase in
    deferred income attributable to our 2008 acquisitions and other
    business development arrangements.

-71-

Note 10:    

Shareholders 
    Equity  

Changes in certain components of shareholders  equity were
    as follows:

As of December 31, 2008, we have purchased
    $2.58 billion of our announced $3.0 billion share
    repurchase program. We acquired approximately 2.1 million
    shares in 2006 under this program. No shares were repurchased in
    2008 or 2007.

We have 5 million authorized shares of preferred stock. As
    of December 31, 2008 and 2007, no preferred stock has been
    issued.

We have funded an employee benefit trust with 40 million
    shares of Lilly common stock to provide a source of funds to
    assist us in meeting our obligations under various employee
    benefit plans. The funding had no net impact on
    shareholders  equity as we consolidate the employee benefit
    trust. The cost basis of the shares held in the trust was
    $2.64 billion and is shown as a reduction in
    shareholders  equity, which offsets the resulting

-72-

increases of $2.61 billion in additional paid-in capital
    and $25.0 million in common stock. Any dividend
    transactions between us and the trust are eliminated. Stock held
    by the trust is not considered outstanding in the computation of
    earnings per share. The assets of the trust were not used to
    fund any of our obligations under these employee benefit plans
    in 2008, 2007, or 2006. In the first quarter of 2009, we
    contributed an additional 10.0 million shares to the trust.

We have an ESOP as a funding vehicle for the existing employee
    savings plan. The ESOP used the proceeds of a loan from us to
    purchase shares of common stock from the treasury. The ESOP
    issued $200.0 million of third-party debt, repayment of
    which was guaranteed by us (see Note 7). The proceeds were
    used to purchase shares of our common stock on the open market.
    Shares of common stock held by the ESOP will be allocated to
    participating employees annually through 2017 as part of our
    savings plan contribution. The fair value of shares allocated
    each period is recognized as compensation expense.

Note 11:    

Earnings
    (Loss) Per Share  

Following is a reconciliation of the denominators used in
    computing earnings (loss) per share:

Following is the composition of income tax expense:

-73-

Significant components of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities as of December 31 are as follows:

At December 31, 2008, we had net operating losses and other
    carryforwards for international and U.S. income tax
    purposes of $1.24 billion: $84.3 million will expire
    within 10 years; $1.09 billion will expire between 10
    and 20 years; and $63.1 million of the carryforwards
    will never expire. The primary component of the remaining
    portion of the deferred tax asset for tax loss carryforwards and
    carrybacks is related to net operating losses for state income
    tax purposes that are fully reserved. We also have tax credit
    carryforwards and carrybacks of $755.0 million available to
    reduce future income taxes; $295.1 million will be carried
    back; $84.1 million of the tax credit carryforwards will
    expire after 5 years; and $13.0 million of the tax
    credit carryforwards will never expire. The remaining portion of
    the tax credit carryforwards is related to federal tax credits
    of $97.4 million and state tax credits of
    $265.4 million, both of which are fully reserved.

Domestic and Puerto Rican companies generated the entire
    consolidated loss before income taxes in 2008 and contributed
    approximately 7 percent and 18 percent in 2007 and
    2006, respectively, to consolidated income before income taxes.
    We have a subsidiary operating in Puerto Rico under a tax
    incentive grant. The current tax incentive grant will not expire
    prior to 2017.

At December 31, 2008, we had an aggregate of
    $13.31 billion of unremitted earnings of foreign
    subsidiaries that have been or are intended to be permanently
    reinvested for continued use in foreign operations and that, if
    distributed, would result in additional income tax expense at
    approximately the U.S. statutory rate.

Cash payments (refunds) of income taxes totaled
    $(52.0) million, $1.01 billion, and
    $864.0 million in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.

-74-

Following is a reconciliation of the income tax expense
    (benefit) applying the U.S. federal statutory rate to
    income (loss) before income taxes to reported income tax expense:

We adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007. FIN 48
    prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for
    the financial statement recognition and measurement of a tax
    position taken or expected to be taken in a tax return. As a
    result of the implementation of FIN 48, we recognized an
    increase of $8.6 million in the liability for unrecognized
    tax benefits, and an offsetting reduction to the January 1,
    2007 balance of retained earnings. A reconciliation of the
    beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits
    is as follows:

The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if
    recognized, would affect our effective tax rate was
    $863.8 million at December 31, 2008.

We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction
    and various state, local, and
     non-U.S. jurisdictions. 
    We are no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local,
    or
     non-U.S. income 
    tax examinations in major taxing jurisdictions for years before
    2002. During the first quarter of 2008, we completed and
    effectively settled our Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit of
    tax years
     2001-2004 
    except for one matter for which we will seek resolution through
    the IRS administrative appeals process. As a result of the IRS
    audit conclusion, gross unrecognized tax benefits were reduced
    by approximately $618 million, and the consolidated results
    of operations were benefited by $210.3 million through a
    reduction in income tax expense. The majority of the reduction
    in gross unrecognized tax benefits related to intercompany
    pricing positions that were agreed with the IRS in a prior audit
    cycle for which a prepayment of tax was made in 2005.
    Application of the prepayment and utilization of tax carryovers
    resulted in a refund of approximately $50 million. The IRS
    began its examination of tax years
     2005-2007 
    during the third quarter of 2008. We do not believe it is
    reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax
    benefits will significantly increase or decrease within the next
    twelve months.

We recognize both accrued interest and penalties related to
    unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. During the
    years ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006, we
    recognized income tax expense (benefit) of
    $(118.0) million, $66.6 million, and
    $51.2 million, respectively, related to interest and
    penalties. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, our accruals for
    the payment of interest and penalties totaled
    $177.6 million

-75-

and $364.2 million, respectively. Substantially all of the
    expense (benefit) and accruals relate to interest. The change in
    the 2008 accrual reflects the impact of the effective settlement
    of the IRS audit discussed above.

Note 13:    

Retirement
    Benefits  

We use a measurement date of December 31 to develop the change
    in benefit obligation, change in plan assets, funded status, and
    amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets at
    December 31 for our defined benefit pension and retiree health
    benefit plans, which were as follows:

The unrecognized net actuarial loss and unrecognized prior
    service cost (benefit) have not yet been recognized in net
    periodic pension costs and are included in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss at December 31, 2008.

In 2009, we expect to recognize from accumulated other
    comprehensive loss as components of net periodic benefit cost,
    $97.5 million of unrecognized net actuarial loss and
    $8.7 million of unrecognized prior service cost related to
    our defined benefit pension plans, and $69.4 million of
    unrecognized net actuarial loss and

-76-

$35.9 million of unrecognized prior service benefit related
    to our retiree health benefit plans. We do not expect any plan
    assets to be returned to us in 2009.

The following represents our weighted-average assumptions as of
    December 31:

In evaluating the expected return on plan assets, we have
    considered our historical assumptions compared with actual
    results, an analysis of current market conditions, asset
    allocations, and the views of leading financial advisers and
    economists. Our plan assets in our U.S. defined benefit
    pension and retiree health plans comprise approximately
    84 percent of our worldwide benefit plan assets. Including
    the investment losses due to overall market conditions in 2001,
    2002, and 2008, our
     20-year 
    annualized rate of return on our U.S. defined benefit
    pension plans and retiree health benefit plan was approximately
    8.2 percent as of December 31, 2008. Health-care-cost
    trend rates are assumed to increase at an annual rate of
    8.5 percent in 2009, decreasing by approximately
    0.6 percent per year to an ultimate rate of
    5.5 percent by 2014.

The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future
    service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows:

The total accumulated benefit obligation for our defined benefit
    pension plans was $5.64 billion and $5.69 billion at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The projected
    benefit obligation and fair value of the plan assets for the
    defined benefit pension plans with projected benefit obligations
    in excess of plan assets were $6.35 billion and
    $4.80 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2008,
    and $1.04 billion and $160.9 million, respectively, as
    of December 31, 2007. The accumulated benefit obligation
    and fair value of the plan assets for the defined benefit
    pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of
    plan assets were $4.98 billion and $4.06 billion,
    respectively, as of December 31, 2008, and
    $825.8 million and $46.9 million, respectively, as of
    December 31, 2007.

-77-

Net pension and retiree health benefit expense included the
    following components:

If the health-care-cost trend rates were to be increased by one
    percentage point each future year, the December 31, 2008,
    accumulated postretirement benefit obligation would increase by
    $247.8 million (13.9 percent) and the aggregate of the
    service cost and interest cost components of the 2008 annual
    expense would increase by $26.9 million
    (16.0 percent). A one-percentage-point decrease in these
    rates would decrease the December 31, 2008, accumulated
    postretirement benefit obligation by $192.0 million
    (10.8 percent) and the aggregate of the 2008 service cost
    and interest cost by $20.7 million (12.3 percent).

The following represents the amounts recognized in other
    comprehensive income (loss) in 2008:

We have defined contribution savings plans that cover our
    eligible employees worldwide. The purpose of these defined
    contribution plans is generally to provide additional financial
    security during retirement by providing employees with an
    incentive to save. Our contributions to the plan are based on
    employee contributions and the level of our match. Expenses
    under the plans totaled $114.1 million,
    $112.3 million, and $106.5 million, for the years
    2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively.

We provide certain other postemployment benefits primarily
    related to disability benefits and accrue for the related cost
    over the service lives of employees. Expenses associated with
    these benefit plans in 2008, 2007, and 2006 were not significant.

Our U.S. defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit
    plan investment allocation strategy currently comprises
    approximately 88 percent to 92 percent growth
    investments and 8 percent to 12 percent fixed-income
    investments. Within the growth investment allocation, the plan
    asset strategy encompasses equity and equity-like instruments
    that are expected to represent approximately 75 percent of
    our plan asset portfolio of both public and private market
    investments. The largest component of these equity and
    equity-like instruments is public equity securities that are
    well diversified and invested in U.S. and international
    small-to-large companies. The remaining portion of the growth
    investment allocation includes alternative investments.

-78-

Our defined benefit pension plan and retiree health plan asset
    allocations as of December 31 are as follows:

In 2009, we expect to contribute approximately $55 million
    to our defined benefit pension plans to satisfy minimum funding
    requirements for the year. In addition, we expect to contribute
    approximately $15 million of additional discretionary
    funding in 2009 to our defined benefit plans. We do not expect
    to make any contributions to our post-retirement health benefit
    plans during 2009.

We are a party to various legal actions, government
    investigations, and environmental proceedings. The most
    significant of these are described below. While it is not
    possible to determine the outcome of these matters, we believe
    that, except as specifically noted below, the resolution of all
    such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position or liquidity, but could possibly
    be material to our consolidated results of operations in any one
    accounting period.

Patent
    Litigation  

We are engaged in the following patent litigation matters
    brought pursuant to procedures set out in the Hatch-Waxman Act
    (the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of
    1984):

Cymbalta:  Sixteen generic drug manufacturers have
    submitted Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) seeking
    permission to market generic versions of Cymbalta prior to the
    expiration of our relevant U.S. patents (the earliest of
    which expires in 2013). Of these challengers, all allege
    non-infringement of the patent claims directed to the commercial
    formulation, and eight allege invalidity of the patent claims
    directed to the active ingredient duloxetine. Of the eight
    challengers to the compound patent claims, one further alleges
    invalidity of the claims directed to the use of Cymbalta for
    treating fibromyalgia, and one alleges the patent having claims
    directed to the active ingredient is unenforceable. Lawsuits
    have been filed in U.S. District Court for the Southern
    District of Indiana against Activis Elizabeth LLC; Aurobindo
    Pharma Ltd.; Cobalt Laboratories, Inc.; Impax Laboratories,
    Inc.; Lupin Limited; Sandoz Inc.; Sun Pharma Global, Inc.; and
    Wockhardt Limited, seeking rulings that the patents are valid,
    infringed, and enforceable. Answers to the complaints are
    pending.

Gemzar:  Sicor Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Sicor), Mayne Pharma
    (USA) Inc. (Mayne), and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc. (Sun)
    each submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market generic
    versions of Gemzar prior to the expiration of our relevant
    U.S. patents (compound patent expiring in 2010 and
    method-of-use patent expiring in 2013), and alleging that these
    patents are invalid. We filed lawsuits in the U.S. District
    Court for the Southern District of Indiana against Sicor
    (February 2006) and Mayne (October 2006 and January 2008),
    seeking rulings that these patents are valid and are being
    infringed. The suit against Sicor has been scheduled for trial
    in July 2009.  Sicor s ANDAs have been approved by the FDA;
    however, Sicor must provide 90 days notice prior to
    marketing generic Gemzar to allow time for us to seek a
    preliminary injunction. Both suits against Mayne have been
    administratively closed, and the parties have agreed to be bound
    by the results of the Sicor suit. In November 2007, Sun filed a
    declaratory judgment action in the United States District Court
    for the Eastern District of Michigan, seeking rulings that our
    method-of-use and

-79-

compound patents are invalid or unenforceable, or would not be
    infringed by the sale of Sun s generic product. This trial
    is scheduled for December 2009.

Alimta:  Teva Parenteral Medicines, Inc. (Teva) and APP
    Pharmaceuticals, LLC (APP) each submitted ANDAs seeking approval
    to market generic versions of Alimta prior to the expiration of
    the relevant U.S. patent (licensed from the Trustees of
    Princeton University and expiring in 2016), and alleging the
    patent is invalid. We, along with Princeton, filed lawsuits in
    the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware
    against Teva and APP, seeking rulings that the compound patent
    is valid and infringed. Trial is scheduled for November 8,
    2010.

Evista:  Barr Laboratories, Inc. (Barr) submitted an ANDA
    in 2002 seeking permission to market a generic version of Evista
    prior to the expiration of our relevant U.S. patents
    (expiring in
     2012-2017) 
    and alleging that these patents are invalid, not enforceable, or
    not infringed. In November 2002, we filed a lawsuit against Barr
    in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
    Indiana, seeking a ruling that these patents are valid,
    enforceable, and being infringed by Barr. Teva Pharmaceuticals
    USA, Inc. (Teva) has also submitted an ANDA seeking permission
    to market a generic version of Evista. In June 2006, we filed a
    similar lawsuit against Teva in the U.S. District Court for
    the Southern District of Indiana. The lawsuit against Teva is
    currently scheduled for trial beginning March 9, 2009,
    while no trial date has been set in the lawsuit against Barr. In
    April 2008, the FDA granted Teva tentative approval of its ANDA,
    but Teva s ability to market a generic product is subject
    to a statutory stay, which has been extended to expire on
    March 9, 2009. If the stay expires and the company cannot
    obtain preliminary relief from the court, Teva can launch its
    generic product, regardless of the status of the current
    litigation, but subject to our right to recover damages, should
    we prevail at trial.

We believe each of these Hatch-Waxman challenges is without
    merit and expect to prevail in this litigation. However, it is
    not possible to determine the outcome of this litigation, and
    accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we will prevail.
    An unfavorable outcome in any of these cases could have a
    material adverse impact on our future consolidated results of
    operations, liquidity, and financial position.

We have received challenges to Zyprexa patents in a number of
    countries outside the U.S.:

In Canada, several generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have
    challenged the validity of our Zyprexa compound and
    method-of-use patent (expiring in 2011). In April 2007, the
    Canadian Federal Court ruled against the first challenger,
    Apotex Inc. (Apotex), and that ruling was affirmed on appeal in
    February 2008. In June 2007, the Canadian Federal Court held
    that an invalidity allegation of a second challenger, Novopharm
    Ltd. (Novopharm), was justified and denied our request that
    Novopharm be prohibited from receiving marketing approval for
    generic olanzapine in Canada. Novopharm began selling generic
    olanzapine in Canada in the third quarter of 2007. We sued
    Novopharm for patent infringement, and the trial began in
    November 2008. We expect the trial to run through the first
    quarter of 2009, with a decision in the second half of 2009. In
    November 2007, Apotex filed an action seeking a declaration of
    the invalidity of our Zyprexa compound and method-of-use
    patents, and no trial date has been set. We have brought similar
    actions against Pharmascience (August 2007), Sandoz (July 2007),
    Nu-Pharm (June 2008), Genpharm (June 2008) and Cobalt
    (January 2009); none of these suits has been scheduled for
    trial. Pharmascience has agreed to be bound by the outcome of
    the Novopharm suit, and, pending the outcome of the lawsuit, we
    have agreed not to take any further steps to prevent the company
    from coming to market with generic olanzapine tablets, subject
    to a contingent damages obligation should we be successful
    against Novopharm.

In Germany, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers
    Egis-Gyogyszergyar and Neolab Ltd. challenged the validity of
    our Zyprexa compound and method-of-use patent (expiring in
    2011). In June 2007, the German Federal Patent Court held that
    our patent is invalid. Generic olanzapine was launched by
    competitors in Germany in the fourth quarter of 2007. We
    appealed the decision to the German Federal Supreme Court and
    following a hearing in December 2008, the Supreme Court reversed
    the Federal Patent Court and found the patent to be valid.
    Following the decision of the Supreme Court, the generic
    companies either agreed to withdraw from the market or were
    subject to preliminary injunction. We are pursuing these
    companies for damages arising from infringement.

-80-

We have received challenges in a number of other countries,
    including Spain, the United Kingdom (U.K.), France, and several
    smaller European countries. In Spain, we have been successful at
    both the trial and appellate court levels in defeating the
    generic manufacturers  challenges, but further legal
    challenge is now pending before the Commercial Court in Madrid.
    In the U.K., the generic pharmaceutical manufacturer
    Dr. Reddy s Laboratories (UK) Limited has challenged
    the validity of our Zyprexa compound and method-of-use patent
    (expiring in 2011). In October 2008, the Patents Court in the
    High Court, London ruled that our patent was valid.
    Dr. Reddy s appealed this decision, and a hearing date
    for the appeal has not been set.

We are vigorously contesting the various legal challenges to our
    Zyprexa patents on a
     country-by-country 
    basis. We cannot determine the outcome of this litigation. The
    availability of generic olanzapine in additional markets could
    have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
    operations.

Xigris and Evista:  In June 2002, Ariad Pharmaceuticals,
    Inc., the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the Whitehead
    Institute for Biomedical Research, and the President and Fellows
    of Harvard College in the U.S. District Court for the
    District of Massachusetts sued us, alleging that sales of two of
    our products, Xigris and Evista, were inducing the infringement
    of a patent related to the discovery of a natural cell signaling
    phenomenon in the human body, and seeking royalties on past and
    future sales of these products. On May 4, 2006, a jury in
    Boston issued an initial decision in the case that Xigris and
    Evista sales infringe the patent. The jury awarded the
    plaintiffs approximately $65 million in damages, calculated
    by applying a 2.3 percent royalty to all U.S. sales of
    Xigris and Evista from the date of issuance of the patent
    through the date of trial. In addition, a separate bench trial
    with the U.S. District Court of Massachusetts was held in
    August 2006, on our contention that the patent is unenforceable
    and impermissibly covers natural processes. In June 2005, the
    United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO) commenced a
    reexamination of the patent, and in August 2007 took the
    position that the Ariad claims at issue are unpatentable, a
    position that Ariad continues to contest. In September 2007, the
    Court entered a final judgment indicating that Ariad s
    claims are patentable, valid, and enforceable, and finding
    damages in the amount of $65 million plus a
    2.3 percent royalty on net U.S. sales of Xigris
    and Evista since the time of the jury decision. However, the
    Court deferred the requirement to pay any damages until after
    all rights to appeal have been exhausted. We have appealed this
    judgment. The Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit heard
    oral arguments on the appeal on February 6, 2009. We
    believe that these allegations are without legal merit, that we
    will ultimately prevail on these issues, and therefore that the
    likelihood of any monetary damages is remote.

Government
    Investigations and Related Litigation  

In March 2004, the Office of the U.S. Attorney for the
    Eastern District of Pennsylvania (EDPA) advised us that it had
    commenced an investigation related to our U.S. marketing
    and promotional practices, including our communications with
    physicians and remuneration of physician consultants and
    advisors, with respect to Zyprexa, Prozac, and Prozac Weekly. In
    addition, the State Medicaid Fraud Control Units of more than
    30 states coordinated with the EDPA in its investigation of
    any Medicaid-related claims relating to our marketing and
    promotion of Zyprexa. In January 2009, we announced that we
    reached resolution of this matter. As part of the resolution, we
    pled guilty to one misdemeanor violation of the Food, Drug, and
    Cosmetic Act and agreed to pay $615.0 million. The
    misdemeanor plea is for the off-label promotion of Zyprexa in
    elderly populations as treatment for dementia, including
    Alzheimer s dementia, between September 1999 and March
    2001. We have also entered into a settlement agreement resolving
    the federal civil claims, under which we will pay approximately
    $438.0 million, although we do not admit to the
    allegations. We have also agreed to settle the civil
    investigations brought by the State Medicaid Fraud Control Units
    of the states that have coordinated with the EDPA in its
    investigation, and will make available a maximum of
    approximately $362.0 million for payment to those states
    that agree to settle. The charge we recorded for this matter in
    the third quarter of $1.42 billion will be sufficient to
    cover these payments. Also, as part of the settlement, we have
    entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of
    Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Health
    and Human Services (HHS). This agreement will require us to
    maintain our compliance program and to undertake a set of
    defined corporate integrity obligations for five years. The
    agreement also provides for an independent third-party review
    organization to assess and report on the company s systems,
    processes, policies, procedures and practices.

-81-

In June 2005, we received a subpoena from the Office of the
    Attorney General, Medicaid Fraud Control Unit, of the State of
    Florida, seeking production of documents relating to sales of
    Zyprexa and our marketing and promotional practices with respect
    to Zyprexa. In September 2006, we received a subpoena from the
    California Attorney General s Office seeking production of
    documents related to our efforts to obtain and maintain
    Zyprexa s status on California s formulary, marketing
    and promotional practices with respect to Zyprexa, and
    remuneration of health care providers. We expect these matters
    to be resolved if Florida and California participate in the
    state component of the EDPA resolution.

Beginning in August 2006, we received civil investigative
    demands or subpoenas from the attorneys general of a number of
    states under various state consumer protection laws. Most of
    these requests became part of a multi-state investigative effort
    coordinated by an executive committee of attorneys general. In
    October 2008, we reached a settlement with 32 states and
    the District of Columbia. While there is no finding that we have
    violated any provision of the state laws under which the
    investigations were conducted, we paid $62.0 million and
    agreed to undertake certain commitments regarding Zyprexa for a
    period of six years, through consent decrees filed in the
    settling states. The 32 states participating in the
    settlement are: Alabama, Arizona, California, Delaware, Florida,
    Hawaii, Illinois, Indiana, Iowa, Kansas, Maine, Maryland,
    Massachusetts, Michigan, Missouri, Nebraska, Nevada, New Jersey,
    New York, North Carolina, North Dakota, Ohio, Oklahoma, Oregon,
    Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas,
    Vermont, Washington, and Wisconsin.

Product
    Liability and Related Litigation  

We have been named as a defendant in a large number of Zyprexa
    product liability lawsuits in the U.S. and have been
    notified of many other claims of individuals who have not filed
    suit. The lawsuits and unfiled claims (together the
     claims ) allege a variety of injuries from the use of
    Zyprexa, with the majority alleging that the product caused or
    contributed to diabetes or high blood-glucose levels. The claims
    seek substantial compensatory and punitive damages and typically
    accuse us of inadequately testing for and warning about side
    effects of Zyprexa. Many of the claims also allege that we
    improperly promoted the drug. Almost all of the federal lawsuits
    are part of a Multi-District Litigation (MDL) proceeding
    before The Honorable Jack Weinstein in the Federal District
    Court for the Eastern District of New York (MDL No. 1596).

Since June 2005, we have entered into agreements with various
    claimants  attorneys involved in U.S. Zyprexa product
    liability litigation to settle a substantial majority of the
    claims. The agreements cover a total of approximately 32,670
    claimants, including a large number of previously filed lawsuits
    and other asserted claims. The two primary settlements were as
    follows:

The 2005 settlement totaling $700.0 million was paid during
    2005. The January 2007 settlements were paid during 2007.

We are prepared to continue our vigorous defense of Zyprexa in
    all remaining claims. The U.S. Zyprexa product liability
    claims not subject to these agreements include approximately 105
    lawsuits in the U.S. covering approximately 120 plaintiffs,
    of which about 80 cases covering about 90 plaintiffs are part of
    the MDL. No trials have been scheduled related to these claims.

In early 2005, we were served with four lawsuits seeking class
    action status in Canada on behalf of patients who took Zyprexa.
    One of these four lawsuits has been certified for residents of
    Quebec, and a second has been certified in Ontario and includes
    all Canadian residents except for residents of Quebec and
    British Columbia. The allegations in the Canadian actions are
    similar to those in the litigation pending in the U.S.

-82-

Since the beginning of 2005, we have recorded aggregate net
    pretax charges of $1.61 billion for Zyprexa product
    liability matters. The net charges, which take into account our
    actual insurance recoveries, covered the following:

The cost of the Zyprexa product liability settlements to
    date; and

Reserves for product liability exposures and defense costs
    regarding the known Zyprexa product liability claims and
    expected future claims to the extent we could formulate a
    reasonable estimate of the probable number and cost of the
    claims.

In December 2004, we were served with two lawsuits brought in
    state court in Louisiana on behalf of the Louisiana Department
    of Health and Hospitals, alleging that Zyprexa caused or
    contributed to diabetes or high blood-glucose levels, and that
    we improperly promoted the drug. These cases have been removed
    to federal court and are now part of the MDL proceedings in the
    Eastern District of New York (EDNY). In these actions, the
    Department of Health and Hospitals seeks to recover the costs it
    paid for Zyprexa through Medicaid and other drug-benefit
    programs, as well as the costs the department alleges it has
    incurred and will incur to treat Zyprexa-related illnesses. We
    have been served with similar lawsuits filed by the states of
    Alaska, Arkansas, Connecticut, Idaho, Minnesota, Mississippi,
    Montana, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Utah, and
    West Virginia in the courts of the respective states. The
    Connecticut, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Montana, New
    Mexico, and West Virginia cases are part of the MDL proceedings
    in the EDNY. The Alaska case was settled in March 2008 for a
    payment of $15.0 million, plus terms designed to ensure,
    subject to certain limitations and conditions, that Alaska is
    treated as favorably as certain other states that may settle
    with us in the future over similar claims. The following cases
    have been set for trial in 2009: Connecticut in the EDNY in
    June, Pennsylvania in November, and South Carolina in August, in
    their respective states.

In 2005, two lawsuits were filed in the EDNY purporting to be
    nationwide class actions on behalf of all consumers and
    third-party payors, excluding governmental entities, which have
    made or will make payments for their members or insured patients
    being prescribed Zyprexa. These actions have now been
    consolidated into a single lawsuit, which is brought under
    certain state consumer protection statutes, the federal civil
    RICO statute, and common law theories, seeking a refund of the
    cost of Zyprexa, treble damages, punitive damages, and
    attorneys  fees. Two additional lawsuits were filed in the
    EDNY in 2006 on similar grounds. In September 2008, Judge
    Weinstein certified a class consisting of third-party payors,
    excluding governmental entities and individual consumers. We
    appealed the certification order, and Judge Weinstein s
    order denying our motion for summary judgment, in September
    2008. In 2007, The Pennsylvania Employees Trust Fund
    brought claims in state court in Pennsylvania as insurer of
    Pennsylvania state employees, who were prescribed Zyprexa on
    similar grounds as described in the New York cases. As with the
    product liability suits, these lawsuits allege that we
    inadequately tested for and warned about side effects of Zyprexa
    and improperly promoted the drug. The Pennsylvania case is set
    for trial in October 2009.

We cannot determine with certainty the additional number of
    lawsuits and claims that may be asserted. The ultimate
    resolution of Zyprexa product liability and related litigation
    could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results
    of operations, liquidity, and financial position.

In addition, we have been named as a defendant in numerous other
    product liability lawsuits involving primarily
    diethylstilbestrol (DES) and thimerosal. The majority of these
    claims are covered by insurance, subject to deductibles and
    coverage limits.

Because of the nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible
    that we could become subject to large numbers of product
    liability and related claims for other products in the future.
    In the past few years, we have experienced difficulties in
    obtaining product liability insurance due to a very restrictive
    insurance market. Therefore, for substantially all of our
    currently marketed products, we have been and expect that we
    will continue to be completely self-insured for future product
    liability losses. In addition, there is no assurance that we
    will be able to fully collect from our insurance carriers in the
    future.

-83-

Environmental
    Matters  

Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
    and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, we have been
    designated as one of several potentially responsible parties
    with respect to fewer than 10 sites. Under Superfund, each
    responsible party may be jointly and severally liable for the
    entire amount of the cleanup. We also continue remediation of
    certain of our own sites. We have accrued for estimated
    Superfund cleanup costs, remediation, and certain other
    environmental matters. This takes into account, as applicable,
    available information regarding site conditions, potential
    cleanup methods, estimated costs, and the extent to which other
    parties can be expected to contribute to payment of those costs.
    We have limited liability insurance coverage for certain
    environmental liabilities.

Note 15:    

Other
    Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

The accumulated balances related to each component of other
    comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:

The amounts above are net of income taxes. The income taxes
    associated with the unrecognized net actuarial losses and prior
    service costs on our defined benefit pension and retiree health
    benefit plans (Note 13) were a benefit of
    $1.02 billion for 2008. The income taxes related to the
    other components of comprehensive income were not significant,
    as income taxes were not provided for foreign currency
    translation.

The unrealized gains (losses) on securities is net of
    reclassification adjustments of $1.7 million,
    $5.8 million, and $16.9 million, net of tax, in 2008,
    2007, and 2006, respectively, for net realized gains on sales of
    securities included in net income. The effective portion of cash
    flow hedges is net of reclassification adjustments of
    $9.6 million, $8.8 million, and $2.3 million, net
    of tax, in 2008, 2007, and 2006, respectively, for realized
    losses on foreign currency options and $7.9 million,
    $11.6 million, and $17.1 million, net of tax, in 2008,
    2007, and 2006, respectively, for interest expense on interest
    rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges.

Generally, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are
    translated into U.S. dollars using the current exchange
    rate. For those operations, changes in exchange rates generally
    do not affect cash flows; therefore, resulting translation
    adjustments are made in shareholders  equity rather than in
    income.

-84-

Management s
    Reports  

Management s
    Report for Financial Statements   Eli Lilly and
    Company and Subsidiaries  

Management of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries is
    responsible for the accuracy, integrity, and fair presentation
    of the financial statements. The statements have been prepared
    in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in
    the United States and include amounts based on judgments and
    estimates by management. In management s opinion, the
    consolidated financial statements present fairly our financial
    position, results of operations, and cash flows.

In addition to the system of internal accounting controls, we
    maintain a code of conduct (known as  The Red Book ) that
    applies to all employees worldwide, requiring proper overall
    business conduct, avoidance of conflicts of interest, compliance
    with laws, and confidentiality of proprietary information.
     The Red Book  is reviewed on a periodic basis with
    employees worldwide, and all employees are required to report
    suspected violations. A hotline number is published in  The
    Red Book  to enable employees to report suspected violations
    anonymously. Employees who report suspected violations are
    protected from discrimination or retaliation by the company. In
    addition to  The Red Book , the CEO, and all financial
    management must sign a financial code of ethics, which further
    reinforces their fiduciary responsibilities.

The consolidated financial statements have been audited by
    Ernst   Young LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm. Their responsibility is to examine our
    consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally
    accepted auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting
    Oversight Board (United States). Ernst  
    Young s opinion with respect to the fairness of the
    presentation of the statements (see opinion on
    page 66) is included in our annual report.
    Ernst   Young reports directly to the audit committee
    of the board of directors.

Our audit committee includes five nonemployee members of the
    board of directors, all of whom are independent from our
    company. The committee charter, which is published in the proxy
    statement, outlines the members  roles and responsibilities
    and is consistent with enacted corporate reform laws and
    regulations. It is the audit committee s responsibility to
    appoint an independent registered public accounting firm subject
    to shareholder ratification, approve both audit and nonaudit
    services performed by the independent registered public
    accounting firm, and review the reports submitted by the firm.
    The audit committee meets several times during the year with
    management, the internal auditors, and the independent public
    accounting firm to discuss audit activities, internal controls,
    and financial reporting matters, including reviews of our
    externally published financial results. The internal auditors
    and the independent registered public accounting firm have full
    and free access to the committee.

We are dedicated to ensuring that we maintain the high standards
    of financial accounting and reporting that we have established.
    We are committed to providing financial information that is
    transparent, timely, complete, relevant, and accurate. Our
    culture demands integrity and an unyielding commitment to strong
    internal practices and policies. Finally, we have the highest
    confidence in our financial reporting, our underlying system of
    internal controls, and our people, who are objective in their
    responsibilities and operate under a code of conduct and the
    highest level of ethical standards.

-85-

Management s
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
    Eli Lilly and Company and Subsidiaries  

Management of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries is
    responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
    control over financial reporting as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We have global
    financial policies that govern critical areas, including
    internal controls, financial accounting and reporting, fiduciary
    accountability, and safeguarding of corporate assets. Our
    internal accounting control systems are designed to provide
    reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded, that
    transactions are executed in accordance with management s
    authorization and are properly recorded, and that accounting
    records are adequate for preparation of financial statements and
    other financial information. A staff of internal auditors
    regularly monitors, on a worldwide basis, the adequacy and
    effectiveness of internal accounting controls. The general
    auditor reports directly to the audit committee of the board of
    directors.

We conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal
    control over financial reporting based on the framework in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. Based on our evaluation under this framework, we
    concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
    effective as of December 31, 2008. However, because of its
    inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
    may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of
    any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
    the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes
    in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
    policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The internal control over financial reporting has been assessed
    by Ernst   Young LLP. Their responsibility is to
    evaluate whether internal control over financial reporting was
    designed and operating effectively.

John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D.

Derica W. Rice

Chairman, President, and 
    Chief Executive Officer   

Senior Vice President and 
    Chief Financial Officer   

February 16, 2009

-86-

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

Board of Directors and Shareholders 

Eli Lilly and Company 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries as of December 31,
    2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of
    operations, cash flows, and comprehensive income (loss) (pages
    43 through 48 and pages 52 through 84) for each of the
    three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. These
    financial statements are the responsibility of the
    company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries at
    December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the consolidated results of
    their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity
    with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Eli
    Lilly and Company and subsidiaries  internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on
    criteria established in  Internal Control  
    Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
    February 16, 2009 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

As discussed in Note 12 to the financial statements, in
    2007 Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries adopted a new
    accounting pronouncement for income taxes.

/s/  Ernst  
    Young LLP

Indianapolis, Indiana

February 16, 2009

-87-

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

Board of Directors and Shareholders  

Eli Lilly and Company 

We have audited Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries 
    internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
    2008, based on criteria established in  Internal
    Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    (the COSO criteria). Eli Lilly and Company and
    subsidiaries  management is responsible for maintaining
    effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
    assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting included in the accompanying
    Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
    company s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries
    maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
    over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on
    the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    2008 consolidated financial statements of Eli Lilly and Company
    and subsidiaries and our report dated February 16, 2009,
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/  Ernst  
    Young LLP

Indianapolis, Indiana

February 16, 2009

-88-

Item 9.    

Changes in
    and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
    Disclosure

None.

Item 9A.    

Controls and
    Procedures

Disclosure
    Controls and Procedures  

Under applicable SEC regulations, management of a reporting
    company, with the participation of the principal executive
    officer and principal financial officer, must periodically
    evaluate the company s  disclosure controls and
    procedures,  which are defined generally as controls and
    other procedures of a reporting company designed to ensure that
    information required to be disclosed by the reporting company in
    its periodic reports filed with the commission (such as this
     Form 10-K) 
    is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported on a timely
    basis.

Our management, with the participation of John C.
    Lechleiter, Ph.D., chairman, president, and chief executive
    officer, and Derica W. Rice, senior vice president and chief
    financial officer, evaluated our disclosure controls and
    procedures as of December 31, 2008, and concluded that they
    are effective.

Internal
    Control over Financial Reporting  

Dr. Lechleiter and Mr. Rice provided a report on
    behalf of management on our internal control over financial
    reporting, in which management concluded that the company s
    internal control over financial reporting is effective at
    December 31, 2008. In addition, Ernst   Young
    LLP, the company s independent registered public accounting
    firm, provided an attestation report on the company s
    internal control over financial reporting. You can find the full
    text of management s report and Ernst  
    Young s attestation report in Part II, Item 8,
    and both reports are incorporated by reference in this Item.

Changes
    in Internal Controls  

During the fourth quarter of 2008, there were no changes in our
    internal control over financial reporting that materially
    affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our
    internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.    Other
    Information

Not applicable.

Part III

Item 10.    

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

Directors
    and Executive Officers  

Information relating to our Board of Directors is found in our
    Proxy Statement to be dated on or about March 9, 2009 (the
     Proxy Statement ) under  Board of
    Directors  at pages
     73-76,  and
    is incorporated in this report by reference.

Information relating to our executive officers is found at
    Part I, Item 1 of this
     Form 10-K 
    under  Executive Officers of the Company. 

-89-

Code of
    Ethics  

We have adopted a code of ethics that complies with the
    applicable SEC and New York Stock Exchange requirements. The
    code is set forth in:

The Red Book,  a comprehensive code of ethical and legal
    business conduct applicable to all employees worldwide and to
    our Board of Directors; and

Code of Ethical Conduct for Lilly Financial Management , a
    supplemental code for our chief executive officer and all
    members of financial management that focuses on accounting,
    financial reporting, internal controls, and financial
    stewardship.

Both documents are online on our web site at
     http://investor.lilly.com/code     business    conduct.cfm.
    In the event of any amendments to, or waivers from, a provision
    of the code affecting the chief executive officer, chief
    financial officer, chief accounting officer, controller, or
    persons performing similar functions, we intend to post on the
    above web site within four business days after the event a
    description of the amendment or waiver as required under
    applicable SEC rules. We will maintain that information on our
    web site for at least 12 months. Paper copies of these
    documents are available free of charge upon request to the
    company s secretary at the address on the front of this
     Form 10-K. 

Corporate
    Governance  

In our proxy statements, we describe the procedures by which
    shareholders can recommend nominees to our board of directors.
    There have been no changes in those procedures since they were
    last published in our proxy statement of March 10, 2008.

The board has appointed an audit committee consisting entirely
    of independent directors in accordance with applicable SEC and
    New York Stock Exchange rules for audit committees. The members
    of the committee are Mr. J. Michael Cook (chairman),
    Michael L. Eskew, Dr. Martin S. Feldstein, Douglas R.
    Oberhelman, and Ms. Kathi P. Seifert. The board has
    determined that Messrs. Cook and Eskew are audit committee
    financial experts as defined in the SEC rules.

Item 11.    

Executive
    Compensation

Information on director compensation, executive compensation,
    and compensation committee matters can be found in the Proxy
    Statement under  Directors  Compensation  at
    pages  83-85, 
     Executive Compensation  at pages
     89-110,  and
     Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
    Participation  at page 89. That information is
    incorporated in this report by reference.

Item 12.    

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  

Information relating to ownership of the Company s common
    stock by management and by persons known by the Company to be
    the beneficial owners of more than five percent of the
    outstanding shares of common stock is found in the Proxy
    Statement under  Ownership of Company Stock,  at pages
     111-112. 
    That information is incorporated in this report by reference.

Securities
    Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
    Plans  

Information on securities authorized for issuance under our
    equity compensation plans can be found in the Proxy Statement
    under  Item 4   Reapproval of Material
    Terms of Performance Goals for the Eli Lilly and Company Bonus
    Plan  at page 116. That information is incorporated in
    this report by reference.

-90-

Item 13.    

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

Related
    Person Transactions  

Information relating to a now-terminated time-share arrangement
    between the company and Mr. Sidney Taurel, retired chairman
    and chief executive officer, relating to his personal use of the
    corporate aircraft can be found in the Proxy Statement under
     Related Person Transaction  at pages 110, and
    information relating to the board s policies and procedures
    for approval of related person transactions can be found in the
    Proxy Statement under  Highlights of the Company s
    Corporate Governance Guidelines   Review and Approval
    of Transactions with Related Persons  at pages
     80-81.  That
    information is incorporated in this report by reference.

Director
    Independence  

Information relating to director independence can be found in
    the Proxy Statement under  Composition of the
    Board   Independence Determinations  at pages
     77-78,  and
    is incorporated in this report by reference.

Item 14.    

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services

Information related to the fees and services of our principal
    independent accountants, Ernst   Young LLP, can be
    found in the Proxy Statement under  Services Performed by
    the Independent Auditor  and  Independent Auditor
    Fees  at pages
     87-88.  That
    information is incorporated in this report by reference.

Item 15.    

Exhibits and
    Financial Statement Schedules

(a)1.     Financial
    Statements  

The following consolidated financial statements of the Company
    and its subsidiaries are found at Part II, Item 8:

(a)2.     Financial
    Statement Schedules  

The consolidated financial statement schedules of the Company
    and its subsidiaries have been omitted because they are not
    required, are inapplicable, or are adequately explained in the
    financial statements.

Financial statements of interests of 50 percent or less,
    which are accounted for by the equity method, have been omitted
    because they do not, considered in the aggregate as a single
    subsidiary, constitute a significant subsidiary.

(a)3.     Exhibits 

2

Agreement and Plan of Merger dated October 6, 2008, among
    Eli Lilly and Company, Alaska Acquisition Corporation and
    ImClone Systems Incorporated

3

.1

Amended Articles of Incorporation

3

.2

By-laws, as amended

4

.1

Form of Indenture with respect to Debt Securities dated as of
    February 1, 1991, between Eli Lilly and Company and
    Citibank, N.A., as Trustee

-91-

4

.2

Agreement dated September 13, 2007 appointing Deutsche Bank
    Trust Company Americas as Successor Trustee under the Indenture
    listed above

4

.3

Form of Standard Multiple-Series Indenture Provisions
    dated, and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on,
    February 1, 1991

4

.4

Form of Indenture dated March 10, 1998, among The Lilly
    Savings Plan Master Trust Fund C, as issuer; Eli Lilly
    and Company, as guarantor; and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
    Trustee, relating to ESOP Amortizing Debentures due
    2017 1 

4

.5

Form of Fiscal Agency Agreement dated May 30, 2001, between
    Eli Lilly and Company and Citibank, N.A., Fiscal Agent, relating
    to Resetable Floating Rate Debt Security due
    2037 1 

4

.6

Form of Resetable Floating Rate Debt Security due
    2037 1 

10

.1

1998 Lilly Stock Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.2

2002 Lilly Stock Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.3

Form of Performance Award under 2002 Lilly Stock
    Plan 2 

10

.4

Form of two-year Performance Award under 2002 Lilly Stock
    Plan 2 

10

.5

Form of Shareholder Value Award under 2002 Lilly Stock
    Plan 2 

10

.6

The Lilly Deferred Compensation Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.7

The Lilly Directors  Deferral Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.8

The Eli Lilly and Company Bonus Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.9

2007 Change in Control Severance Pay Plan for Select Employees,
    as amended effective January 1,
    2009 2 

10

.10

2007 Change in Control Severance Pay Plan for Select Employees,
    as amended effective October 20,
    2010 2 

10

.11

Letter agreement between the company and Charles E. Golden
    concerning retirement
    benefits 2 

10

.12

Letter agreement between the company and Steven M.
    Paul, M.D. concerning retirement
    benefits 2 

10

.13

Arrangement regarding retirement benefits for Robert A.
    Armitage 2 

10

.14

Time Sharing Agreement between the company and Sidney Taurel for
    use of corporate aircraft

10

.15

Guilty Plea Agreement in  The United States District Court for
    the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, United States of
    America v. Eli Lilly and Company 

10

.16

Settlement Agreement among the company and the United States of
    America, acting through the United States Department of Justice,
    Civil Division, and the United States Attorney s Office of
    the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, the Office of the
    Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human
    Services, TRICARE Management Activity, and the United States
    Office of Personnel Management, and certain individual relators

10

.17

Corporate Integrity Agreement between the company and the Office
    of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human
    Services

12

Statement re:  Computation of Ratio of Earnings (Loss) to Fixed
    Charges

21

List of Subsidiaries

23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

31

.1

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D.,
    Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer

31

.2

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Derica W. Rice, Senior Vice
    President and Chief Financial Officer

32

Section 1350 Certification

1  This

    exhibit is not filed with this report. Copies will be furnished
    to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

2  Indicates

    management contract or compensatory plan.

-92-

Signatures  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned
    thereunto duly authorized.

Eli Lilly
    and Company  

By 

/s/  John
    C. Lechleiter

John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D., Chairman of the Board, President
    and Chief Executive Officer

February 27, 2009

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below on February 27,
    2009 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
    the capacities indicated.

Signature

Title

/s/  John
    C. Lechleiter  

JOHN
    C. LECHLEITER, Ph.D. 

Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, and a Director
    (principal executive officer)

/s/  Derica
    W. Rice

DERICA
    W. RICE

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
    (principal financial officer)

/s/  Arnold
    C. Hanish

ARNOLD
    C. HANISH

Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer  
    (principal accounting officer)

/s/  Sir
    Winfried Bischoff

SIR
    WINFRIED BISCHOFF

Director

/s/  J.
    Michael Cook

J.
    MICHAEL COOK

Director

/s/  Michael
    L. Eskew

MICHAEL
    L. ESKEW

Director

/s/  Martin
    S. Feldstein

MARTIN
    S. FELDSTEIN, Ph.D. 

Director

/s/  J.
    Erik Fyrwald

J.
    ERIK FYRWALD

Director

/s/  Karen
    N. Horn

KAREN
    N. HORN, Ph.D. 

Director

/s/  Alfred
    G. Gilman

ALFRED
    G. GILMAN, M.D., Ph.D. 

Director

-93-

Signature

Title

/s/  Ellen
    R. Marram

ELLEN
    R. MARRAM

Director

/s/  Douglas
    R. Oberhelman

DOUGLAS
    R. OBERHELMAN

Director

/s/  Franklyn
    G. Prendergast

FRANKLYN
    G. PRENDERGAST, M.D., Ph.D.

Director

/s/  Kathi
    P. Seifert

KATHI
    P. SEIFERT

Director

-94-

Trademarks
    Used In This Report

Trademarks or service marks owned by Eli Lilly and Company or
    its subsidiaries or affiliates, when first used in this report,
    appear with an initial capital and are followed by the symbol

or  tm  ,

    as applicable. In subsequent uses of the marks in the report,
    the symbols are omitted.

Actos   

    is a trademark of Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd.

Axid   

    is a trademark of Reliant Pharmaceuticals, LLC

Byetta   

    is a trademark of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

-95-

Index to
    Exhibits  

The following documents are filed as part of this report:

Exhibit  

Location  

2

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 6, 2008,
    among Eli Lilly and Company, Alaska Acquisition Corporation and
    ImClone Systems Incorporated

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s
    Report on Form 8-K filed October 10, 2008

3

.1

Amended Articles of Incorporation

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s
    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008

3

.2

By-laws, as amended

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.2 to the Company s
    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008

4

.1

Form of Indenture with respect to Debt Securities dated as of
    February 1, 1991, between Eli Lilly and Company and
    Citibank, N.A., as Trustee

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s
    Registration Statement on Form S-3, Amendment No. 1,
    Registration
     No. 333-106478 

4

.2

Agreement dated September 13, 2007 appointing Deutsche Bank
    Trust Company Americas as Successor Trustee under the Indenture
    listed above

Attached

4

.3

Form of Standard Multiple-Series Indenture Provisions
    dated, and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    February 1, 1991

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the Company s
    Registration Statement on Form S-3, Amendment No. 1,
    Registration
     No. 333-106478 

4

.4

Form of Indenture dated March 10, 1998, among The Lilly
    Savings Plan Master Trust Fund C, as issuer; Eli Lilly
    and Company, as guarantor; and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
    Trustee, relating to ESOP Amortizing Debentures due 2017

*

4

.5

Form of Fiscal Agency Agreement dated May 30, 2001, between
    Eli Lilly and Company and Citibank, N.A., Fiscal Agent, relating
    to Resettable Floating Rate Debt Security due 2037

*

4

.6

Form of Resettable Floating Rate Debt Security due 2037

*

10

.1

1998 Lilly Stock Plan, as amended

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
    31, 2006

10

.2

2002 Lilly Stock Plan, as amended

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2008

10

.3

Form of Performance Award under 2002 Lilly Stock Plan

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10 to the Company s
    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004

10

.4

Form of two-year Performance Award under 2002 Lilly Stock Plan

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company s Report on Form 8-K filed December 11, 2008

10

.5

Form of Shareholder Value Award under 2002 Lilly Stock Plan

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March
    31, 2007

* Not filed with this report.
    Copies will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange
    Commission upon request.

-96-

Exhibit  

Location  

10

.6

The Lilly Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2008

10

.7

The Lilly Directors  Deferral Plan, as amended

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2008

10

.8

The Eli Lilly and Company Bonus Plan, as amended

Attached

10

.9

2007 Change in Control Severance Pay Plan for Select Employees,
    as amended effective January 1, 2009

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2008

10

.10

2007 Change in Control Severance Pay Plan for Select Employees,
    as amended effective October 20, 2010

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2008

10

.11

Letter agreement between the Company and Charles E. Golden
    concerning retirement benefits

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.13 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
    31, 2004

10

.12

Letter agreement between the Company and Steven M.
    Paul, M.D. concerning retirement benefits

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.14 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
    31, 2004

10

.13

Arrangement regarding retirement benefits for Robert A. Armitage

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
    31, 2004

10

.14

Time Sharing Agreement between the Company and Sidney Taurel for
    use of corporate aircraft

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.16 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
    31, 2004

10

.15

Guilty Plea Agreement in  The United States District Court for
    the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, United States of
    America v. Eli Lilly and Company 

Attached

10

.16

Settlement Agreement among the company and the United States of
    America, acting through the U. S. Department of Justice, Civil
    Division, and the U. S. Attorney s Office of the Eastern
    District of Pennsylvania, the Office of the Inspector General of
    the Department of Health and Human Services, TRICARE Management
    Activity, and the U. S. Office of Personnel Management, and
    certain individual relators

Attached

10

.17

Corporate Integrity Agreement between the company and the Office
    of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human
    Services

Attached

12

Statement re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings (Loss) to Fixed
    Charges

Attached

21

List of Subsidiaries

Attached

23

Consent of Registered Independent Public Accounting Firm

Attached

31

.1

Rule 13a-14(a) 
    Certification of John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D., Chairman of the
    Board and Chief Executive Officer

Attached

31

.2

Rule 13a-14(a) 
    Certification of Derica W. Rice, Senior Vice President and Chief
    Financial Officer

Attached

32

Section 1350 Certification

Attached

-97-

<EX-4.2>
 2
 c49534exv4w2.htm
 EX-4.2

exv4w2 

Exhibit 4.2 

TRIPARTITE AGREEMENT 

UNSECURED DEBT  

Eli Lilly and Company, Issuer

Citibank, N.A., Previous Trustee

INSTRUMENT OF RESIGNATION, APPOINTMENT AND ACCEPTANCE (the  Agreement ) entered into as of the
13th day of September, 2007, among Eli Lilly and Company, an Indiana corporation (the  Issuer ),
Citibank, N.A., a national banking association duly organized and existing under the laws of the
United States of America ( Citibank ), and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas, a New York banking
corporation ( DBTCA  ).

W I T N E S S E T H  

WHEREAS, the Issuer and Citibank entered into a certain Indenture dated as of February I,
1991, as amended and supplemented (the  Indenture ) with respect to the issuance from time to time
of the following debt securities (collectively, the  Securities ):

WHEREAS, Citibank has been acting as Trustee under the Indenture; and

WHEREAS, Section 7.08 of the Indenture provides that Citibank may resign at any time and be
discharged of the trust created by the Indenture by giving written notice thereof to the Issuer

and to the Holders of Securities in the manner provided in Section 1.04 of the Indenture, and
upon the appointment of and acceptance of such appointment by a successor trustee; and

WHEREAS, Citibank, pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.08 of the Indenture has given such
written notice to the Issuer on the 31st day of July, 2007 and pursuant to the provisions of
Section 1.04 of the Indenture has given such written notice to the Holders of Securities, a copy of
which is attached hereto as Exhibit A, which resignation shall create a vacancy in the office of
the Trustee; and

WHEREAS, Section 7.08 of the Indenture further provides that the Issuer shall promptly appoint
a successor Trustee to fill a vacancy in the office of Trustee under the Indenture; and

WHEREAS, the Issuer wishes to appoint DBTCA as successor Trustee under the Indenture; and

WHEREAS, DBTCA is willing to accept such appointment as successor Trustee on the terms and
conditions set forth herein and under the Indenture; and

WHEREAS, DBTCA is eligible to act as successor Trustee under the Indenture;

NOW,  THEREFORE, pursuant to the provisions of the Indenture and in consideration of the
covenants herein contained, it is agreed among the Issuer, Citibank and DBTCA as follows:

1. 
       
     The Issuer hereby accepts the resignation of Citibank as Trustee and, pursuant  to  the
authority vested in it by Section 7.08 of the Indenture and by resolution of its Board of
Directors dated April 16, 2007 a copy of which is attached as Exhibit C, hereby appoints DBTCA
as successor Trustee under the Indenture, with all the estate, properties, rights, powers,
trusts, duties and obligations heretofore vested in Citibank as Trustee under the Indenture
and designates the office of DBTCA presently located at 60 Wall Street, 27 h Floor, New York,
New York 10005, Attention: Trust and Securities Services, as the office or agency of the
Issuer in New York, New York where the Securities may be presented for payment, conversion,
registration of transfer and exchange. Such office shall also constitute the  Corporate Trust
Office  as such term is used in the Indenture. Citibank s resignation as Trustee and DBTCA s
appointment and acceptance as successor Trustee, shall be effective as of the opening of
business on the date first above written upon the execution and delivery hereof by each of the
parties hereto. 

2. 
       
     The Issuer represents and warrants that: 

(a) 
       
     it is validly organized and existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its
incorporation; 

(b) 
       
     the Securities were validly and lawfully issued; 

(c) 
       
     to its knowledge, it has performed or fulfilled each covenant, agreement and
condition on its part to be performed or fulfilled under the Indenture; 

(d) 
       
     it has no knowledge of the existence of any default, or Event of Default (as
defined in the Indenture), or any event which upon notice or passage of time or both would
become an Event of Default, under the Indenture; 

(e) 
       
     it has not appointed any paying agents under the Indenture other than Citibank; 

(f) 
       
     it will continue to perform the obligations undertaken by it under the Indenture; and 

(g) 
       
     promptly after the execution and delivery of this Instrument, it will mail or
cause to be mailed to each securityholder a Notice of Appointment of Successor Trustee, of
which is attached hereto as Exhibit B. 

3. 
       
     Citibank represents and warrants to DBTCA that: 

(a) 
       
     it has made, or promptly will make available to DBTCA originals of all documents
relating to the trust created by the Indenture and all information in the possession of its
corporate trust department relating to the administration and status thereof and will
furnish to DBTCA any of such documents or information DBTCA may select; 

(b) 
       
     to the best of the knowledge of the officers of Citibank assigned to its corporate
trust department, no default, or Event of Default (as defined in the Indenture), or any
event which upon notice or lapse of time or both would become and Event of Default under
the Indenture, exists; 

(c) 
       
     it has lawfully and fully discharged its duties as Trustee under the Indenture;
and; 

(d) 
       
     no covenant or condition contained in the Indenture has been waived by
Citibank or by the securityholders of the percentage in aggregate principal amount of
the Securities required by the Indenture to effect any such waiver. 

Citibank agrees to investigate from time to time as DBTCA may reasonably request, at the expense of
the Issuer, the completeness or accuracy of any information in the Security Register which relates
to any transaction occurring prior to the appointment of DBTCA as registrar for the securities.

4. 
       
     DBTCA represents that it is eligible to act as Trustee under the provisions of the Indenture. 

5. 
       
     DBTCA hereby accepts its appointment as successor Trustee under the Indenture and accepts
the trust created thereby, and assumes all rights, powers, duties and obligations of the
Trustee under the Indenture. DBTCA will perform said trust and will exercise said rights,
powers, duties, and obligations upon the terms and conditions set forth in the Indenture;
 provided, however,  that it is understood and agreed by the parties hereto that
DBTCA does not assume responsibility for or any liability in connection with any
negligence or other misconduct on the part of Citibank or its agents in connection
with Citibank s performance of the respective trusts, duties and obligations under the
Indenture and it is further understood and agreed by the parties that the provisions of
Section 7.05 of the Indenture shall survive, for the benefit of Citibank, Citibank s
resignation hereunder. 

6. 
       
     DBTCA hereby accepts the designation of its Corporate Trust Office as the office or agency of
the Issuer in New York, New York where the Securities may be presented for payment, and
registration of transfer. 

7. 
       
     Pursuant to the written request of DBTCA and the Issuer hereby made, Citibank, upon payment
of its outstanding charges, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, confirms, assigns,
transfers and sets over to DBTCA, as successor Trustee under the Indenture, upon the trust
expressed in the Indenture, any and all moneys and all the rights. powers, duties and
obligations which Citibank now holds under and by virtue of the Indenture. 

8. 
       
     The Issuer. for the purpose of more fully and certainly vesting in and confirming to DBTCA,
as successor Trustee under the Indenture, said trusts, rights, powers, duties and obligations,
at the request of DBTCA, hereby joins in the execution hereof. 

9. 
       
     The Issuer, and Citibank hereby agree, upon the request of DBTCA, to execute, acknowledge and
deliver such further instruments of conveyance and assurance and to do such other things as
may be required for more fully and certainly vesting and confirming in DBTCA all of the
properties, rights, powers, duties and obligations of Citibank as Trustee under the Indenture. 

10. 
       
     Terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the definitions given thereto in the
Indenture. 

11. 
       
     The effect and meaning of this Agreement and the rights of all parties hereunder shall be
governed by, and construed in accordance with, the laws of the State of New York. 

12. 
       
     This Agreement may be simultaneously executed in any number of counterparts. Each such
counterpart so executed shall be deemed to be an original, but all together shall constitute but
one and the same instrument. 

13. 
       
     The Issuer acknowledges that in accordance with Section 326 of the USA Patriot Act the
successor Trustee, like all financial institutions is required to obtain, verify, and record
information that identifies each person or legal entity that establishes a relationship or opens an
account with Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas. The Issue; agrees that it will provide the
successor Trustee with such information as it may request in order for the successor Trustee to
satisfy the requirements of the USA Patriot Act. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Eli Lilly and Company has caused this instrument to be executed by one of
its duly authorized officers; Citibank, N.A. has caused this instrument to be executed by one of
its duly authorized officers; and Deutsche Bank Trust Company Americas has caused this instrument
to be executed by one of its duly authorized officers, all as of the date first written above.

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 

By:   

 /s/ Thomas W. Grein

Name:   
     Thomas W. Grein  

Title:   
      Vice President and Treasurer   

CITIBANK, N.A. 

By:   

 /s/
Wafaa Orfy

Name:   
     Wafaa Orfy  

Title:   
     Vice President  

DEUTSCHE BANK TRUST COMPANY AMERICAS 

By:   

 /s/ Richard L. Buckwalter

Name:   
     Richard L. Buckwalter  

Title:   
     Director  

By:   
     /s/ Carol Ng

Name:   
     Carol Ng  

Title:   
     Vice President  

</EX-4.2>

<EX-10.8>
 3
 c49534exv10w8.htm
 EX-10.8

EX-10.8 

Exhibit 10.8 

The Eli Lilly and Company Bonus Plan 
(as amended January 1, 2009) 

SECTION 1. PURPOSE 

The purpose of The Eli Lilly and Company Bonus Plan is to encourage and promote eligible employees
to create and deliver innovative pharmaceutical-based health care solutions that enable people to
live longer, healthier and more active lives, to outgrow our competitors through a constant stream
of pharmaceutical innovation, and to materially increase shareholder value. The Plan is designed
to accomplish the following key objectives:

a. 
       
     motivate superior employee performance through the implementation of a
performance-based bonus system for all eligible management employees, United States
employees (including those in Puerto Rico) and other employees as may be designated
from time to time; 

b. 
       
     encourage eligible employees to take greater ownership of the company and
provide  Answers that Matter  daily by creating a direct relationship between key
company measurements and individual bonus payouts; and 

c. 
       
     enable the Company to attract and retain employees that will be instrumental in
driving sustained growth and performance of Eli Lilly and Company by providing a
competitive bonus program that rewards outstanding performance consistent with the
Company s mission, values and increased shareholder value. 

The Plan is intended to satisfy the requirements for providing  performance-based  compensation
under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.

SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS 

The following words and phrases as used in this Plan will have the following meanings unless a
different meaning is clearly required by the context. Masculine pronouns will refer both to males
and to females:

2.1 
       
      Applicable Year  means the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which
payment of the Company Bonus is payable pursuant to Section 6. For example, the Applicable
Year for 2010 payout is January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009. 

2.2 
       
      Bonus Target  means the percentage of Participant Earnings for each Participant as
described in Section 5.6(a) below. 

2.3 
       
      Committee  means (i) with respect to the Executive Officers of Lilly, the Compensation
Committee, the members of which will be selected by the Board of Directors of Lilly, from
among its members; and (ii) with respect to all other Eligible Employees, the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors or its designee. Each member of the Compensation
Committee will, to the extent deemed necessary or appropriate by the 

- 1 - 

Board of Directors, satisfy the requirements of an  outside director  within the meaning of
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. 

2.4 
       
      Company  means Eli Lilly and Company and its subsidiaries. 

2.5 
       
      Company Bonus  means the amount of bonus compensation payable to a Participant as
described in Section 5 below. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, the Committee may
determine, in its sole discretion, to reduce the amount of a Participant s Company Bonus if
such Participant becomes eligible to participate in such other bonus program of the Company as
may be specifically designated by the Committee. Such reduction may be by a stated percentage
up to and including 100% of the Company Bonus. 

2.6 
       
      Company Performance Bonus Multiple  means the amount as calculated in Sections 5.3 and
5.4 below. 

2.7 
       
      Disabled  means a Participant who (i) has become eligible for a payment under The
Lilly Extended Disability Plan, assuming eligibility to participate in that plan, or (ii) for
those employees ineligible to participate in The Lilly Extended Disability Plan, has become
otherwise  disabled  under the applicable disability benefit plan or program for the
Participant, or, in the event that there is no such disability benefit plan or program, has
become disabled under applicable local law. 

2.8 
       
      Earnings Per Share (EPS)  means the diluted earnings per share of the Company as
reported in the Company s  Consolidated Statements of Income  in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and Section 3.4 below. 

2.9 
       
      Earnings Per Share Growth (EPS Growth)  means the percentage increase in EPS in the
Applicable Year compared to the prior year. 

2.10 
       
      Effective Date  means January 1, 2004, as amended from time to time. 

2.11 
       
      Eligible Employee  means: 

a. 
       
     with respect to employees of Lilly, Lilly USA, LLC. or Lilly s Puerto Rican
subsidiaries, a person (1) who is employed as an employee by the Company on a scheduled
basis of twenty (20) or more hours per week and is scheduled to work at least five (5)
months per year; and (2) who is receiving compensation, including temporary illness pay
under Lilly s Illness Pay Program or similar short-term disability program, from the
Company for services rendered as an employee. Notwithstanding anything herein to the
contrary, the term  Eligible Employee  will not include: 

(1) 
       
     a person who has reached Retirement with the Company; 

(2) 
       
     a person who is Disabled; 

(3) 
       
     a person who is a  leased employee  within the meaning of
Section 414(n) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or whose basic 

- 2 - 

compensation for services on behalf of the Company is not paid directly by
the Company; 

(4) 
       
     a person who is classified as a  Fixed Duration Employee , as
that term is used by Lilly; 

(5) 
       
     a person who is classified as a special status employee because
his employment status is temporary, seasonal, or otherwise inconsistent with
regular employment status; 

(6) 
       
     a person who is eligible to participate in the Eli Lilly and
Company Premier Rewards Plan, a bonus or incentive plan for eligible employees
of Elanco Animal Health or such other Company bonus or incentive program as may
be specifically designated by the Committee or its designee; or 

(7) 
       
     a person who submits to the Committee in writing a request that
he not be considered eligible for participation in the Plan or is a member of
the Board of Directors of Lilly unless he or she is also an Eligible Employee. 

(8) 
       
     any other category of employees designated by the Committee in
its discretion with respect to any Applicable Year. 

b. 
       
     with respect to those employees who are employed by the Company, but not by
Lilly, Lilly USA, LLC., or a Puerto Rican subsidiary, an employee of the Company
designated by the Committee as a Participant in the Plan with respect to any Applicable
Year. In its discretion, the Committee may designate Participants either on an
individual basis or by determining that all employees in specified job categories,
classifications, levels, subsidiaries or other appropriate classification will be
Participants. 

c. 
       
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the term Eligible Employee
will not include any person who is not so recorded on the payroll records of the
Company, including any such person who is subsequently reclassified by a court of law
or regulatory body as a common law employee of the Company. Consistent with the
foregoing, and for purposes of clarification only, the term employee or Eligible
Employee does not include any individual who performs services for the Company as an
independent contractor or under any other non-employee classification. 

2.12 
       
      Lilly  means Eli Lilly and Company. 

2.13 
       
      Lilly Executive Officer  or  Section 162(m) Participant  means a Participant who
has been designated by the Board of Directors of Lilly as an executive officer pursuant to
Rule 3b-7 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. For purposes of this Plan, a
Lilly Executive Officer will be considered a Section 162(m) Participant whether or not he is a
 covered employee  under Section 162(m). 

2.14 
       
      Participant  means an Eligible Employee who is participating in the Plan. 

- 3 - 

2.15 
       
      Participant Earnings  means (A) those amounts described below that are earned during
the portion of the Applicable Year during which the employee is a Participant in the Plan: 

(i) 
       
     regular compensation (including applicable
deferred compensation amounts), overtime, shift premiums and other
forms of additional compensation determined by and paid currently
pursuant to an established formula or procedure; 

(ii) 
       
     salary reduction contributions to The Lilly
Employee 401(k) Plan or elective contributions under any similar
tax-qualified plan that is intended to meet the requirements of
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code or similar Company
savings program; 

(iii) 
       
     elective contributions to any cafeteria
plan that is intended to meet the requirements of Section 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code or other pre-tax contributions to a similar
Company benefit plan; 

(iv) 
       
     payments made under the terms of Lilly s
Illness Pay Program or other similar Company or government-required
leave program during an Applicable Year to a Participant who is on
approved leave of absence and is receiving one hundred percent (100%)
of his base pay; and 

(v) 
       
     other legally-mandated or otherwise
required pre-tax deductions from a Participant s base salary. 

(B) 
       
     The term  Participant Earnings  does not include: 

(i) 
       
     compensation paid in lieu of earned
vacation; 

(ii) 
       
     amounts contributed to the Retirement Plan
or any other qualified plan, except as provided in clause (A)(ii),
above; 

(iii) 
       
     payments made under the terms of Lilly s
Illness Pay Program or other similar Company or government-required
leave program during an Applicable Year to a Participant who is on
approved leave of absence and is receiving less than the full amount
of his base pay; 

(iv) 
       
     amounts paid under this Plan or other bonus
or incentive program of the Company; 

(v) 
       
     payments made under The Lilly Severance Pay
Plan or any other severance-type benefit (whether company-sponsored
or mandated by law) arising out of or relating to a Participant s
termination of employment; 

(vi) 
       
     payments based upon the discretion of the
Company; 

(vii) 
       
     in the case of a person employed by a
Lilly subsidiary, foreign service, cost of living, or other
allowances that would not be paid were the person employed by Lilly; 

(viii) 
       
     amounts paid as commissions, sales bonuses, or Market Premiums (as
defined under the Retirement Plan); or 

(ix) 
       
     earnings with respect to the exercise of
stock options or vesting of restricted stock. 

- 4 - 

2.16 
       
      Performance Benchmarks  mean the amounts as calculated in Section 5.3 below. The
Performance Benchmarks will be established after considering expected pharmaceutical peer
group performance and based on performance measures as described in Section 5.2. 

2.17 
       
      Plan  means The Eli Lilly and Company Bonus Plan as set forth herein and as hereafter
modified or amended from time to time. The Plan is an incentive compensation program and is
not subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ),
pursuant to Department of Labor Regulation Section 2510.3. 

2.18 
       
      Plant Closing  means the closing of a plant site or other Company location that
directly results in termination of employment. 

2.19 
       
      Reduction in Workforce  means the elimination of a work group, functional or business
unit or other broadly applicable reduction in job positions that directly results in
termination of employment. 

2.20 
       
      Retirement  means the cessation of employment upon the attainment of age fifty-five
with ten years of service (55 and 10), age sixty-five with five years of service (65 and 5) or
at least eighty (80) points, as determined by the provisions of the Retirement Plan as amended
from time to time, assuming eligibility to participate in that plan. For persons who are not
participants in the Retirement Plan, Retirement means the cessation of employment as a retired
employee under the applicable retirement benefit plan or program as provided by the Company or
applicable law. 

2.21 
       
      Retirement Plan  means The Lilly Retirement Plan. 

2.22 
       
      Sales  means, for any Applicable Year, the consolidated net sales of the Company as
set forth in the  Consolidated Statements of Income  as reported by the Company in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles and Section 3.4 below. 

2.23 
       
      Sales Growth  means the percentage increase in Sales in the Applicable Year compared
to the prior year. 

2.24 
       
      Section 162(m)  means Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

2.25 
       
      Service  means the aggregate time of employment of an Eligible Employee by the
Company. 

SECTION 3. ADMINISTRATION 

3.1 
       
      Committee . The Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board
of Directors of Eli Lilly and Company or, if the name of the Compensation Committee is
changed, the Plan will be administered by such successor committee. For all Eligible
Employees other than Lilly Executive Officers, the Compensation Committee may delegate all or
a portion of its responsibilities within its sole discretion by resolution. Any reference in
this Plan to the Committee or its authority will be deemed to include such designees (other than
with respect to Lilly Executive Officers or a member of the Board
of Directors or for purposes of Section 9). 

- 5 - 

3.2 
       
      Powers of the Committee . The Committee will have the right to interpret the terms
and provisions of the Plan and to determine any and all questions arising under the Plan,
including, without limitation, the right to remedy possible ambiguities, inconsistencies, or
omissions by a general rule or particular decision. The Committee will have authority to
adopt, amend and rescind rules consistent with the Plan, to make exceptions in particular
cases to the rules of eligibility for participation in the Plan (except with respect to Lilly
Executive Officers), and to delegate authority for approval of participation of any Eligible
Employee except for Lilly Executive Officers or a member of the Board of Directors. The
Committee will take all necessary action to establish annual Performance Benchmarks and
approve the timing of payments, as necessary. 

3.3 
       
      Certification of Results . Before any amount is paid under the Plan, the Committee
will certify in writing the calculation of EPS, EPS Growth, Sales and Sales Growth (or other
applicable performance measures) for the Applicable Year and the satisfaction of all other
material terms of the calculation of the Company Performance Bonus Multiple and Company Bonus. 

3.4 
       
      Adjustments for Significant Events  .  Not later than 90 days after the beginning of an
Applicable Year, the Committee may specify with respect to Company Bonuses for the Applicable
Year that the performance measures described in Section 5.2 will be determined before the
effects of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings or special charges or gains, changes in
corporate capitalization, accounting changes, and/or events that are treated as extraordinary
items for accounting purposes; provided that such adjustments shall be made only to the extent
permitted by Section 162(m) in the case of Lilly Executive Officers. 

3.5 
       
      Finality of Committee Determinations . Any determination by the Committee of Sales,
Sales Growth, EPS, EPS Growth, any other performance measure, Performance Benchmarks and the
level and entitlement to Company Bonus, and any interpretation, rule, or decision adopted by
the Committee under the Plan or in carrying out or administering the Plan, will be final and
binding for all purposes and upon all interested persons, their heirs, and personal
representatives. The Committee may rely conclusively on determinations made by Lilly and its
auditors to determine Sales, Sales Growth, EPS, EPS Growth and related information for
administration of the Plan, whether such information is determined by the Company, auditors or
a third-party vendor engaged specifically to provide such information to the Company. This
subsection is not intended to limit the Committee s power, to the extent it deems proper in
its discretion, to take any action permitted under the Plan. 

SECTION 4. PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN 

4.1 
       
      General Rule . Only Eligible Employees may participate in and receive payments under
the Plan. 

4.2 
       
      Commencement of Participation . An Eligible Employee will become a Participant in the
Plan as follows: (i) in the case of Eligible Employees under Section 2.11(a), on the date 

- 6 - 

on which the individual completes at least one hour of employment as an Eligible Employee within
the United States or Puerto Rico, and (ii) in the case of Eligible Employees under Section
2.11(b), on the date as of which the Committee has designated the individual to become a
Participant in the Plan. 

4.3 
       
      Termination of Participation . An Eligible Employee will cease to be a Participant
upon termination of employment with the Company for any reason, or at the time he otherwise
ceases to be an Eligible Employee under the Plan. 

SECTION 5. DEFINITION AND COMPUTATION OF COMPANY BONUS 

5.1 
       
      Computation for Eligible Employees . Company Bonus amounts will depend significantly
on Company performance as well as Participants  individual performance for certain Eligible
Employees. As more specifically described below, a Participant s Company Bonus is calculated
by multiplying the Participant s Bonus Target by his Participant Earnings and the Company
Performance Bonus Multiple. For eligible management and Lilly employees and those
Participants designated by the Committee, individual performance will also impact the Company
Bonus calculation, as described in Section 5.6(c) below. Company Bonuses are paid out to
eligible Participants in the manner provided below. 

5.2 
       
      Establishment of Performance Measures . Not later than 90 days after the beginning of
each Applicable Year, the Committee will, in its sole discretion, determine appropriate
performance measures for use in calculating Company Bonus amounts. These performance measures
may include Sales Growth, EPS Growth, growth in net income, return on assets, return on
equity, total shareholder return, EVA, MVA or any of the foregoing before the effect of
acquisitions, divestitures, accounting changes, restructurings and special charges or gains
(determined according to objective criteria established by the Committee not later than ninety
(90) days after the beginning of the Applicable Year). Unless otherwise specified in a
written resolution adopted by the Committee for the Applicable Year, the Committee will use
EPS Growth and Sales Growth, in each case before the effect of acquisitions, divestitures,
accounting changes, restructurings and special charges or gains (determined as described
above) as performance measures. 

5.3 
       
      Establishment of Performance Benchmarks . Not later than 90 days after the beginning
of each Applicable Year, the Committee will establish Performance Benchmarks for the Company
based on the performance measures described in Section 5.2 above. Unless otherwise specified
in a written resolution adopted by the Committee for the Applicable Year, the Performance
Benchmarks will correspond with EPS Growth and Sales Growth amounts for the Applicable Year,
established after considering expected pharmaceutical peer group performance. The Performance
Benchmarks will correspond to EPS Growth and Sales Growth multiples equal to 1.0. The
Committee will also adopt a formula that will determine the extent to which the performance
measure multiples will vary as the Company s actual results vary from the Performance
Benchmarks. 

5.4 
       
      Company Performance Bonus Multiple . Unless otherwise specified in a written
resolution adopted by the Committee not later than 90 days after the beginning of the 

- 7 - 

Applicable Year, the Company Performance Bonus Multiple is equal to the product of the EPS
Growth multiple and 0.75 plus the product of the Sales Growth multiple and 0.25 (i.e., Company
Performance Bonus Multiple = (EPS Growth multiple * 0.75)   (Sales Growth multiple * 0.25)). 

5.5 
       
      Company Performance Bonus Multiple Threshold and Ceiling : Notwithstanding Sections
5.3 and 5.4, the Company Performance Bonus Multiple will not be less than 0.25 or greater than
2.0 in an Applicable Year. If the calculations described in Sections 5.3 and 5.4 above result
in a number that is less than 0.25, the Company Performance Bonus Multiple will equal 0.25 for
the Applicable Year. If the calculations described in Sections 5.3 and 5.4 above result in a
multiple greater than 2.0, the Company Performance Bonus Multiple will equal 2.0 for the
Applicable Year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may reduce the Company
Performance Bonus Multiple (including but not limited to a reduction to below 0.25) for some
or all Eligible Employees, in its discretion. 

5.6 
       
      Participant Company Bonus . 

a. 
       
      Bonus Target . Not later than 90 days after the beginning of the
Applicable Year, the Bonus Target for each Participant, whether such Participant is
designated on an individual basis or by specified job categories, classifications,
levels, subsidiaries or other appropriate classification, will be determined by the
Committee on a basis that takes into consideration a Participant s pay grade level and
job responsibilities. The Bonus Target for each Participant for the Applicable Year
will be expressed as a percentage of Participant Earnings as of December 31 of the
Applicable Year. No later than early in the Applicable Year, each Participant will
receive information regarding the Participant s Bonus Target. In the event that a
Participant s pay grade level changes during the Applicable Year (e.g., because of
promotion, demotion or otherwise), the Participant s Bonus Target will be prorated
based on the Bonus Target applicable to each pay grade level (with related job
responsibilities) and the percentage of time that the Participant is employed at each
pay grade level during the Applicable Year. 

b. 
       
      Company Bonus Calculation . Except as described in Section 5.6(c)
below, a Participant s Company Bonus will equal the product of the Company Performance
Bonus Multiple and the Participant s Bonus Target and the Participant s Earnings. 

c. 
       
      Adjustment for Performance Multiplier, if Applicable . 

Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, all eligible management employees
(except Lilly Executive Officers), United States employees and other employees as may be
designated from time to time by the Committee are subject to individual performance
multipliers. For all such Participants subject to an individual performance multiplier,
the amount calculated in Section 5.6(b) above will be adjusted based on the
Participant s performance rating at the end of the Applicable Year as described below.
Not later than 90 days after the beginning of the Applicable Year, the Committee will
determine applicable performance multipliers for the
applicable performance rating system in effect for the Participant. For each such
Participant, the performance rating will be determined by the Participant s supervision. 

- 8 - 

In the event that a Participant does not receive a year-end performance rating, but is otherwise
eligible for a Company Bonus, the amount calculated in Section 5.6(b) will be multiplied by 1.0 so
that the Participant s actual Company Bonus will be the amount calculated in Section 5.6(b) above.

5.7 
       
      Conditions on Company Bonus . Payment of any Company Bonus is neither guaranteed nor
automatic. A Participant s Company Bonus is not considered to be any form of compensation,
wages, or benefits, unless and until paid. 

5.8 
       
      Required Employment . Except as provided below in this Section 5.8 or as otherwise
designated by the Committee, if a Participant is not employed by the Company on the last day
of the Applicable Year, or is otherwise not an Eligible Employee on that date, the Participant
is not entitled to any Company Bonus payment under this Plan for that Applicable Year. 

a. 
       
      Leaves of Absence . A Participant who, on the last day
of the Applicable Year, is on approved leave of absence under the Family and
Medical Leave Act of 1993, military leave under the Uniformed Services
Employment and Reemployment Rights Act, or such other approved leave of absence
will be considered to be an Eligible Employee on that date for purposes of this
Plan. 

a. 
       
      Transfer . An employee who is a Participant in this
Plan for a portion of the Applicable Year and then transfers to a position
within the Company in which he is ineligible to participate in this Plan, but
who remains employed by the Company on the last day of the Applicable Year,
will be treated as satisfying the last-day-of-Applicable Year requirement for
purposes of this Plan. In that event, his Company Bonus will be based on his
Participant Earnings for the portion of the Applicable Year in which the
employee was a Participant in the Plan. 

b. 
       
      Retirement, Disability or Death . Except as described
below, a Participant who was an Eligible Employee for some portion of the
Applicable Year and then takes Retirement, becomes and remains Disabled through
the end of the Applicable Year, or dies during the Applicable Year will be
considered to satisfy the last-day-of-Applicable-Year requirement described in
this Section 5.8 for purposes of this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an
Eligible Employee in the United States who has not received a year-end
performance rating and (1) is on employment probation (or its equivalent
outside the United States) for unsatisfactory performance and takes Retirement
in lieu of a termination of employment; or (2) takes Retirement in lieu of
termination of employment because of an immediately terminable offense (e.g.
absence of three days without notice, insubordination, violation of substance
abuse policy, possession of firearms, misconduct) will not be considered to
satisfy the last day of Applicable Year requirement. 

c. 
       
      Reallocation, Medical Reassignment, Plant Closing or
Reduction in Workforce . A Participant who was an Eligible Employee for
some portion of the Applicable Year and whose employment is terminated as a
result of his 

- 9 - 

failure to locate a position following his reallocation or
medical reassignment in the United States, or a Plant Closing or Reduction in
Workforce will be considered to satisfy the last-day-of-Applicable Year
requirement described in this Section 5.8 for purposes of this Plan. The
Committee or its designee s determination regarding whether a Participant s
termination is a direct result of either a Plant Closing or a Reduction in
Workforce will be final and binding. 

d. 
       
      Notice of Resignation . In addition, a Participant who
submits a notice of resignation from employment with the Company prior to the
end of the Applicable Year and whose effective date of resignation is two (2)
weeks or less from the date of notice of resignation will be considered
employed by the Company for purposes of this Plan until the end of his
specified notice period. 

5.9 
       
      New Participants . If an Eligible Employee began participation in the Plan during an
Applicable Year and is eligible for a Company Bonus, his Company Bonus will be based on
Participant Earnings earned after the employee became a Participant. An Eligible Employee who
became assigned to a position eligible for a Company Bonus at any time other than the first of
the month will become a Participant the first of the following month. 

5.10 
       
      Section 162(m) Requirements, Bonus Maximum . In the case of Lilly Executive Officers,
all determinations necessary for computing a Company Bonus for the Applicable Year, including
establishment of all components of EPS, EPS Growth, Sales, Sales Growth, Company Performance
Bonus Multiple and Bonus Target percentages, shall be made by the Committee not later than 90
days after the commencement of the Applicable Year. As and to the extent required by Section
162(m), the terms of a Company Bonus for a Lilly Executive Officer must state, in terms of an
objective formula or standard, the method of computing the amount of compensation payable to
the Lilly Executive Officer, and must preclude discretion to increase the amount of
compensation payable that would otherwise be due under the terms of the award.
Notwithstanding anything elsewhere in the Plan to the contrary, the maximum amount of the
Company Bonus that may be payable to a Lilly Executive Officer in respect of any Applicable
Year will be $7 million. 

SECTION 6. TIME OF PAYMENT 

6.1 
       
      General Rule . Payment under the Plan will be made in the year following the
Applicable Year on or prior to March 15 of such year. 

6.2 
       
      Terminated Employee . Except as provided in Section 5.8 above, in the event an
Eligible Employee s employment with the Company ends for any reason prior to the last day of
the Applicable Year, he will not receive any Company Bonus for the Applicable Year. 

6.3 
       
      Deceased Eligible Employee . In the event an Eligible Employee dies before payment
under the Plan is made, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, authorize the Company to
pay to his personal representative or beneficiary an amount not to exceed the amount
established by the Committee to reflect the payment accrued at the date of death. Any  

- 10 - 

such
payment would be paid consistent with the timing requirements described in subsection 6.1
above. 

SECTION 7. ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDELINES 

7.1 
       
      Establishment and Amendment by the Committee . The Committee may establish objective
and nondiscriminatory written guidelines for administering those provisions of the Plan that
expressly provide for the determination of eligibility, Company Bonus or benefits on the basis
of rules established by the Committee. The Committee may, from time to time, amend or
supplement the administrative guidelines established in accordance with this subsection 7.1.
The administrative guidelines established or amended in accordance with this subsection 7.1
will not be effective to the extent that they materially increase the Plan s liability, or to
the extent that they are inconsistent with, or purport to amend, any provision of the Plan set
forth in a document other than such administrative guidelines. 

7.2. 
       
      Amendment by Board of Directors . Any administrative guidelines established by the
Committee pursuant to subsection 7.1 may be amended or revoked by the Board of Directors,
either prospectively or retroactively, in accordance with the general amendment procedures set
forth in section 9 below. 

SECTION 8. MISCELLANEOUS 

8.1 
       
      No Vested Right . No employee, participant, beneficiary, or other individual will
have a vested right to a Company Bonus or any part thereof until payment is made to him under
Section 6. 

8.2 
       
      No Employment Rights . No provision of the Plan or any action taken by the Company,
the Board of Directors of the Company, or the Committee will give any person any right to be
retained in the employ of the Company. The right and power of the Company to dismiss or
discharge any Participant for any reason or no reason, with or without notice, is
specifically reserved. 

8.3 
       
      No Adjustments . After the certification of the calculation of EPS, EPS Growth,
Sales, Sales Growth and any other material terms of the calculation of the Company
Performance Bonus Multiple and Company Bonus for the Applicable Year as described in Section
3.3 above, no adjustments will be made to reflect any subsequent change in accounting, the
effect of federal, state, or municipal taxes later assessed or determined, or otherwise.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company reserves the right to and, in appropriate cases,
will, seek restitution of any Company Bonus awarded to a Lilly Executive Officer if: 

a. 
       
     The amount of the Company Bonus was calculated based upon the
achievement of certain financial results that were subsequently the subject of
a restatement of all or a portion of the Company s financial statements; 

- 11 - 

b. 
       
     The Lilly Executive Officer engaged in intentional misconduct
that caused or partially caused the need for such a restatement; and 

c. 
       
     The amount of the Company Bonus that would have been awarded to
the Lilly Executive Officer had the financial results been properly reported
would have been lower than the amount actually awarded. 

This subsection is not intended to limit the Company s power to take such action as it
deems necessary to remedy the misconduct, prevent its recurrence and, if appropriate,
based on all relevant facts and circumstances, punish the wrongdoer in a manner it deems
appropriate. 

8.4 
       
      Other Representations . Nothing contained in this Plan, and no action taken
pursuant to its provisions, will create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a
fiduciary relationship between the Company and any employee, participant, beneficiary, legal
representative, or any other person. Although Participants generally have no right to any
payment from this Plan, to the extent that any Participant acquires a right to receive
payments from the Company under the Plan, such right will be no greater than the right of an
unsecured general creditor of the Company. All payments to be made hereunder will be paid
from the general funds of the Company and no special or separate fund will be established,
and no segregation of assets will be made, to assure payment of such amount. 

8.5 
       
      Tax Withholding . The Company will make such provisions and take such steps as it
may deem necessary or appropriate for the withholding of all federal, state, local, and other
taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to Company Bonus payments under the Plan,
including, but not limited to, deducting the amount required to be withheld from the amount
of cash otherwise payable under the Plan, or from salary or any other amount then or
thereafter payable to an employee, Participant, beneficiary, or legal representative. 

8.6 
       
      Currency . The Company Bonus will be based on the currency in which the highest
portion of base pay is regularly paid. The Committee will determine the appropriate foreign
exchange conversion methodology in its discretion. 

8.7 
       
      Effect of Plan on other Company plans . Nothing contained in this Plan is intended
to amend, modify, terminate, or rescind other benefit or compensation plans established or
maintained by the Company. Whether and to what extent a Participant s Company Bonus is taken
into account under any other plan will be determined solely in accordance with the terms of
such plan. 

8.8 
       
      Construction . This Plan and all the rights thereunder will be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the state of Indiana, without reference to the
principles of conflicts of law thereof. 

8.9 
       
      Notice . Any notice to be given to the Company or Committee pursuant to the
provisions of the Plan will be in writing and directed to Secretary, Eli Lilly and Company,
Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, IN 46285. 

- 12 - 

SECTION 9. AMENDMENT, SUSPENSION, OR TERMINATION 

The Board of Directors of the Company will have the right to amend, modify, suspend, revoke, or
terminate the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time and without notice, by written resolution of
the Board of Directors. The Committee also will have the right to amend the Plan, except that the
Committee may not amend this Section 9. Solely to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the
Board (or the Committee) for purposes of complying with Section 162(m), the Board (or the
Committee) may seek the approval by the Company s stockholders of the Plan or any amendments to the
Plan or any aspect of the Plan or Plan amendments. Any such approval shall be obtained in a
separate vote of stockholders, with approval by a majority of the votes cast on the issue,
including abstentions to the extent abstentions are counted as voting under applicable state law
and the Articles of Incorporation and By-laws of the Company. To the extent deemed necessary or
advisable by the Board of Directors to comply with Section 162(m), the material terms of the
performance measures used in calculating Company Bonus amounts will be disclosed to and reapproved
by the stockholders of the Company no later than the Company s 2014 annual meeting.

- 13 - 

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.15>
 4
 c49534exv10w15.htm
 EX-10.15

EX-10.15 

Exhibit 10.15 

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 

FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

:  

v.  

: 

CRIMINAL NO.  

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 

:  

GUILTY PLEA AGREEMENT  

Under Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 11(c)(1)(C), the government, the defendant, Eli Lilly
and Company (hereinafter  Eli Lilly ), and Eli Lilly s counsel enter into the following guilty plea
agreement. Any reference to the United States or the government in this agreement shall mean the
Office of the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and the Office of
Consumer Litigation of the Department of Justice.

1. Eli Lilly agrees to plead guilty to Count One of an Information, waiving prosecution by
indictment, charging it with the introduction into interstate commerce of drugs that were
misbranded, a misdemeanor, in violation of 21 U.S.C.    331(a), 333(a)(1) and 352(f)(1), and not to
contest forfeiture as set forth in the notice of forfeiture seeking forfeiture of $100,000,000 in
substitute assets, in lieu of the drugs which were promoted illegally and are no longer available,
all arising from Eli Lilly s illegal promotion of its drug Zyprexa in the United States between
September 1999 and March 31, 2001. Eli Lilly further acknowledges its waiver of rights, as set
forth in Exhibit A to this agreement.

2. The
parties agree that this plea agreement is made pursuant to
Fed.R.Crim.P. 11(c)(1)(C) and that the following specific sentence is the appropriate disposition

of this case. Taking into consideration the factors set forth in 18 U.S.C.    3553(a) and 3572, the
agreed upon sentence is as follows:

A. Eli Lilly agrees to pay the special assessment in the amount of
$125 on the date of sentencing.

B. Eli Lilly agrees to pay $615,000,000 to resolve this Information, of
which $515,000,000 will be applied as a criminal fine, and $100,000,000 will be applied as
substitute assets to satisfy the forfeiture obligation described in paragraph 2(C) below. Eli
Lilly will pay these amounts within 10 business days of the date of sentencing. Eli Lilly and the
government agree that this fine and forfeiture represent a fair and just resolution of all
issues associated with loss, fine and forfeiture calculations.

C. Eli Lilly agrees that as a result of its acts or omissions, the
forfeitable property, that is the drugs which were promoted off-label, are no longer available
for forfeiture as the drugs cannot be located or have been transferred, sold or deposited with a
third party, or otherwise disposed of, within the meaning of federal law. As a result, Eli Lilly
agrees to the entry and satisfaction of a judgment and preliminary order of forfeiture on the date of
the guilty plea, forfeiting to the United States the sum of $100,000,000 as substitute assets for
the pertinent drugs. Eli Lilly agrees that, within 10 business days of the date of sentencing, Eli
Lilly will make payment to the United States, by means of a wire transfer to the United States
Marshal Service or check payable to same, in the amount of $100,000,000, this amount representing
substitute assets of the offense for which it is pleading guilty, subject to forfeiture in
full satisfaction of the judgment and preliminary order of forfeiture.

2 

D. In light of the anticipated Corporate Integrity Agreement, Eli Lilly will not be
placed on probation.

3. Eli Lilly and the United States intend to execute a separate civil settlement agreement.
Eli Lilly waives any and all defenses and objections in this matter or in that civil proceeding
which might be available under the Double Jeopardy and Excessive Fines clauses of the Eighth
Amendment. The parties agree that, in light of the separate civil settlement agreement, and to
avoid unduly complicating and prolonging the sentencing process, the appropriate disposition of
this case does not include a restitution order.

4. Eli Lilly waives any claim under the Hyde Amendment, 18 U.S.C.
  3006A (Statutory Note), for attorney s fees and other litigation expenses arising out of
the investigation or prosecution of this matter.

5. Eli Lilly understands, agrees and has had explained to it by counsel that the Court may
impose the following statutory maximum sentence: a fine of $200,000, or twice the gross gain or
gross loss, whichever is greater; a special assessment of $125; restitution as ordered by the
Court; and a five-year term of Court supervision; in addition, forfeiture may be ordered. Eli Lilly
further understands that the terms and conditions of any Court supervision may be changed, and
extended, by the Court if Eli Lilly violates any of the terms and conditions of that supervision.

6. With respect to Eli Lilly s conduct:

A. 
       
     The parties stipulate to the following facts and basis for the plea, criminal fine and forfeiture: 

3 

(1) 
       
     Eli Lilly marketed Zyprexa, which was a drug within the meaning of 21 U.S.C.  
321(g)(1). 

(2) 
       
     Shipments of a drug in interstate commerce must be accompanied by labeling bearing adequate
directions for use for each of the drug s intended uses. 

(3) 
       
     In September 1996, Zyprexa was approved by FDA for the short term management of the
manifestations of psychotic disorders. In March 2000, FDA approved the addition of the
subheading  schizophrenia  to the short term management of the manifestations of psychotic
disorders. Also in March 2000, FDA approved Zyprexa for the short-term treatment of acute
manic episodes associated with Bipolar I Disorder. In November 2000, FDA approved new labeling
for Zyprexa for the short term treatment of schizophrenia in place of the management of the
manifestations of psychotic disorders. Also in November 2000, FDA approved Zyprexa for
maintaining treatment response in schizophrenic patients who had been stable for approximately
eight weeks and were then followed for a period of up to eight months. 

(4) 
       
     Between September 1999 and March 31, 2001, Eli Lilly promoted Zyprexa in elderly populations
as treatment for 

4 

dementia, including Alzheimer s dementia. Zyprexa is not approved by the FDA
for treatment of dementia or Alzheimer s dementia. Eli Lilly s promotion of
Zyprexa for these additional intended uses violated 21 U.S.C.   352(f)(1),
because Zyprexa s labeling did not bear adequate directions for each of the
drug s intended uses. 

B. 
       
     The United States contends that, as a matter
of relevant conduct, the conduct which forms the basis for this plea
agreement, as set forth in subsection (A) above, continued past March
31, 2001. Eli Lilly does not admit that this conduct extended past March 31,
2001. 

7. Eli Lilly and the United States retain the right to withdraw from this guilty plea
agreement, and this plea agreement will be null and void, if the civil settlement agreement and
Corporate Integrity Agreement are not executed prior to the filing of the Information.

8. Except as provided herein, the United States agrees that, other than the charges in the
Information in this case, it will not bring any other criminal charges against Eli Lilly, its
present and former parents, affiliates, divisions, and subsidiaries; their predecessors, successors
and assigns for conduct which (A) falls within the scope of the criminal investigation in the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania relating to Eli Lilly s drug Zyprexa; or (B) was known to the
United States Attorney s Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania or the Office of Consumer
Litigation of the Department of Justice as of the date of the execution of this plea agreement, and
which concerned the sale, promotion, or marketing of Zyprexa in the United

5 

States. The non-prosecution provisions of this paragraph are binding on the Office of the United
States Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, the Office of Consumer Litigation of the
Department of Justice, and the United States Attorney s Offices for each of the other 93 judicial
districts of the United States. The non-prosecution provisions are also binding on the Criminal
Division of the United States Department of Justice, except that the investigation of Eli Lilly and
its affiliates, divisions, and subsidiaries, being conducted by the Fraud Section of the Criminal
Division regarding possible violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and related offenses in
connection with the sales and marketing of Eli Lilly s products to foreign customers is
specifically excluded from the non-prosecution provisions and release provided by this paragraph
and agreement. Attached as Exhibit B is a copy of the letter to Acting United States Attorney
Laurie Magid from the Assistant Attorney General, Criminal Division, Department of Justice,
authorizing this agreement.

9. Eli Lilly understands that this guilty plea agreement does not bind any other government
agency, or any component of the Department of Justice except as specified in paragraph 8 of this
guilty plea agreement. Further, Eli Lilly understands that the United States takes no position as
to the proper tax treatment of any of the payments made by Eli Lilly pursuant to this plea
agreement, the civil settlement agreement, or the Corporate Integrity Agreement referenced in this
plea agreement.

10. Eli Lilly agrees to waive the statute of limitations, and any other time-related defense,
to the charge to which it is agreeing to plead guilty under this plea agreement, provided that the
guilty plea is accepted by the Court.

6 

11. Eli Lilly understands and agrees that, should it withdraw its plea or if Eli Lilly s
guilty plea is not accepted by the Court for whatever reason, Eli Lilly may thereafter be
prosecuted for any criminal violation of which the United States has knowledge arising out of this
investigation, notwithstanding the expiration of any applicable statute of limitations between the
time period when Eli Lilly signed this plea agreement and either Eli Lilly s withdrawal of its plea
or the Court s rejection of its plea. In that event, Eli Lilly agrees that it will not raise the
expiration of any statute of limitations as a defense to any such prosecution, except to the extent
that the statute of limitations would have been a defense pursuant to the terms of a Tolling
Agreement between the parties effective October 7, 2008, all subsequent extensions of the Tolling
Agreement, and this paragraph.

12. In exchange for the undertakings made by the government in entering this plea agreement,
Eli Lilly voluntarily and expressly waives all rights to appeal or collaterally attack the
defendant s conviction, sentence, or any other matter relating to this prosecution, whether such a
right to appeal or collateral attack arises under 18 U.S.C.   3742, 28 U.S.C.
  1291, 28 U.S.C.   2255, or any other provision of law. This waiver is not intended to bar the
assertion of constitutional claims that the relevant case law holds cannot be waived.

13. Eli Lilly also waives all rights, whether asserted directly or by a
representative, to request or receive from any department or agency of the United States any
records pertaining to the investigation or prosecution of this case, including without
limitation any records that may be sought under the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C.   552, or the
Privacy Act, 5 U.S.C.   552a.

7 

14. Eli Lilly is satisfied with the legal representation provided by its lawyers; Eli Lilly
and its lawyers have fully discussed this guilty plea agreement; and Eli Lilly is agreeing to plead
guilty because Eli Lilly admits that it is guilty of the misdemeanor described in paragraph 1.

15. Eli Lilly will acknowledge acceptance of this guilty plea agreement by the signature of
its counsel and of an authorized corporate officer. Eli Lilly shall provide to the government for
attachment as Exhibit C to this plea agreement a notarized resolution by Eli Lilly s Board of
Directors authorizing the corporation to enter a plea of guilty, and authorizing a corporate
officer to execute this agreement.

16. If acceptable to the Court, the parties agree to waive the presentence investigation and
report pursuant to Rule 32(c)(1) of the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, and ask that Eli Lilly
be sentenced at the time the guilty plea is entered.

17. It is agreed that the parties  guilty plea agreement contains no additional promises,
agreements or understandings other than those set forth in this written guilty plea agreement, and
that no additional promises, agreements or understandings will be entered into unless in writing
and signed by all parties.

8 

SIGNATURES FOR THE UNITED STATES 

GREGORY G. KATSAS 
Assistant Attorney General 
Civil Division 
United States Department of Justice

/s/ Eugene M. Thirolf

/s/ Laurie Magid 

EUGENE M. THIROLF

LAURIE MAGID 

Director, Office of Consumer Litigation

Acting United States Attorney 

United States Department of Justice

/s/ Jeffrey I. Steger

/s/ Linda Dale Hoffa 

JEFFREY I. STEGER

LINDA DALE HOFFA 

Trial Attorney

Chief, Criminal Division 

Office of Consumer Litigation

Assistant United States Attorney 

United States Department of Justice

/s/ Ross S. Goldstein

/s/ Catherine Votaw 

ROSS S. GOLDSTEIN

CATHERINE VOTAW 

Trial Attorney

Assistant United States Attorney 

Office of Consumer Litigation

United States Department of Justice

/s/ Marilyn S. May 

MARILYN S. MAY 
Assistant United States Attorney 

DATE: 1-14-09

/s/ Denise S. Wolf 

DENISE S. WOLF 
Assistant United States Attorney 

9 

SIGNATURE FOR ELI LILLY 

DATE: 14 Jan. 2009

/s/ Robert A. Armitage 

ROBERT A. ARMITAGE 

Senior Vice President and General Counsel 

Eli Lilly and Company 

SIGNATURES OF ELI LILLY S ATTORNEYS 

DATE: 1/14/09

/s/ Nina M. Gussack 

NINA M. GUSSACK 

Pepper Hamilton LLP 

Counsel for Defendant 

DATE: 1/14/09

/s/ Thomas M. Gallagher 

THOMAS M. GALLAGHER 

Pepper Hamilton LLP 

Counsel for Defendant 

DATE: 1/14/09

/s/ Paul E. Kalb 

PAUL E. KALB 

Sidley Austin LLP 

Counsel for Defendant 

DATE: 1/14/09

/s/ Bradford A. Berenson 

BRADFORD A. BERENSON 

Sidley Austin LLP 

Counsel for Defendant 

10 

Exhibit A

IN THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT 
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA

: 

v.

:

CRIMINAL NO. 

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY

: 

ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF RIGHTS 

Eli Lilly and Company ( Eli Lilly ), through its properly authorized officer, hereby
acknowledges that it has certain rights that it will be giving up by pleading guilty.

1. 
       
     Eli Lilly understands that it does not have to plead guilty. 

2. 
       
     Eli Lilly may plead not guilty and insist upon a trial. 

3. 
       
     At that trial, Eli Lilly understands: 

a. 
       
     that Eli Lilly would have the right to be tried by a jury that
would be selected from the Eastern District of Pennsylvania and that along with its
attorney, Eli Lilly would have the right to participate in the selection of
that jury; 

b. 
       
     that the jury could only convict Eli Lilly if all twelve
jurors agreed that they were convinced of Eli Lilly s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt; 

c. 
       
     that the government would have the burden of proving Eli
Lilly s guilt beyond a reasonable doubt and that Eli Lilly would not have to prove
anything; 

d. 
       
     that Eli Lilly would be presumed innocent unless and until
such time as the jury was convinced beyond a reasonable doubt that the government
had proven that Eli Lilly was guilty; 

e. 
       
     that Eli Lilly would have the right to be represented
by a lawyer at this trial and at any appeal following the trial, and that if
Eli Lilly could not afford to hire a lawyer, the court would appoint one for
Eli Lilly free of charge; 

f. 
       
     that through Eli Lilly s lawyer Eli Lilly would have the right to confront and cross-examine the witnesses against Eli Lilly; 

g. 
       
     that Eli Lilly could call witnesses to testify in its defense if Eli Lilly
wanted to, and Eli Lilly could subpoena witnesses for this purpose if Eli
Lilly wanted to; and 

h. 
       
     that Eli Lilly would not have to call witnesses to testify or otherwise
present any defense if Eli Lilly did not want to, and that if Eli Lilly did
not present any evidence, the jury could not hold that against Eli Lilly. 

4. 
       
     Eli Lilly understands that if Eli Lilly pleaded guilty, there will be no trial
and Eli Lilly would be giving up all of the rights listed above, as well as
any other rights associated with the trial process arising under statute, common-law,
or judicial precedent. 

5. 
       
     Eli Lilly understands that if Eli Lilly decides to enter a plea of guilty, the
judge will ask Eli Lilly representatives questions under oath, and that if any of those
representatives lie on behalf of Eli Lilly in answering those questions, those persons
could be prosecuted for the crime of perjury, that is, for lying under oath. 

6. 
       
     Eli Lilly understands that if Eli Lilly pleads guilty, Eli Lilly has waived its
right to appeal, except as set forth in appellate waiver provisions of the plea
agreement. 

7. 
       
     Understanding that Eli Lilly has all these rights and that by pleading guilty
Eli Lilly is giving them up, Eli Lilly still wishes to plead guilty. 

/s/ Robert A. Armitage

ROBERT A. ARMITAGE

Senior Vice President and General Counsel

Eli Lilly and Company

/s/ Paul E. Kalb

PAUL E. KALB

Sidley Austin LLP

Counsel for Defendant

2 

Exhibit B 

The Honorable Laurie Magid 
Acting United States Attorney 
Eastern District of Pennsylvania 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19106

Attention:

Catherine Votaw 

Assistant United States Attorney 

Re:

Global Non-prosecution Agreement for Eli Lilly and Company  

Dear Ms. Magid:

This is in response to your request for authorization to enter into a global case disposition
agreement with the business entity known as Eli Lilly and Company.

I hereby approve the terms of the Plea Agreement, including Paragraph 8, in which the
United States Attorney s Offices and the Criminal Division of the Department of Justice agree
not to initiate further criminal prosecutions as set out therein.

You are authorized to make this approval a matter of record in this proceeding.

Sincerely, 

Matthew W. Friedrich 

Acting Assistant Attorney General 

/s/ John C. Keeney  

John C. Keeney           

Deputy Assistant Attorney General  
Criminal Division   

</EX-10.15>

<EX-10.16>
 5
 c49534exv10w16.htm
 EX-10.16

EX-10.16 

Exhibit 10.16 

SETTLEMENT AGREEMENT  

I. 
       
      PARTIES  

This Settlement Agreement ( Agreement ) is entered into among the United States of America,
acting through the United States Department of Justice, Civil Division, and the United States
Attorney s Office for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, the Office of Inspector General
( OIG-HHS ) of the Department of Health and Human Services ( HHS ), TRICARE Management Activity
( TMA ) and the United States Office of Personnel Management ( OPM ) (collectively the  United
States  the Relators as identified in Paragraphs B through E of the Preamble to this Agreement
( Relators  and Eli Lilly and Company ( Eli Lilly ). Collectively, all of the above will be
referred to as  the Parties. 

II. 
       
      PREAMBLE  

As a preamble to this Agreement, the Parties agree to the following: 

A. At all relevant times, Eli Lilly, an Indiana corporation headquartered in
Indianapolis, Indiana, distributed, marketed and sold pharmaceutical products in the United
States, including a drug sold under the trade name of Zyprexa.

The  qui   tam  actions identified in Paragraphs (B) through (E) will be referred to
collectively as the  Civil Actions. 

B. Robert Rudolph ( Rudolph ), Hector Rosado ( Rosado ), and Robert Evan Daywitt
( Daywitt ) filed a  qui   tam  action in the United States District Court for the Eastern

-1- 

District of Pennsylvania captioned  United States of America ex rel. Robert Rudolph, et al., v.
Eli Lilly and Company , Civil Action No. 03-943. On August 13, 2003, Rudolph, Rosado and Daywitt
filed a first amended complaint, adding relators Bradley Lutz ( Lutz ) and James Wetta ( Wetta ). A
second amended complaint was filed on September 27, 2007, adding relator William Lofing ( Lofing ).

C. Joseph Faltaous ( Faltaous ) filed a  qui   tam  action in the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of New York captioned  United States of America ex rel.
Joseph 
 Faltaous v. Eli Lilly and Company , Civil Action No. 05-1471. That action was
transferred to the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania as Civil Action No. 06-2909. 

D. Steven Woodward ( Woodward ) filed a  qui   tam  action in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania captioned  United States ex rel.
Steven 
 Woodward v. Dr. George B. Jerusalem, Tesse Jerusalem, Bay Psychiatric Services, and Eli
Lilly ,
Civil Action No. 06-5526.

E. Jaydeen Vicente ( Vicente ) filed a  qui   tam  action in the United States District
Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania captioned  United States of America ex
rel. 
 Javdeen Vicente v. Eli Lilly and Company , Civil Action No. 07-1791.

F. Eli Lilly has entered into a plea agreement with the United States Attorney for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania and the Office of Consumer Litigation of the Department of
Justice and has agreed to plead guilty, pursuant to Fed.R.Crim.P. 11 to specific conduct
described in a plea agreement to be filed in  United States v. Eli Lilly and Company 
(the  Federal
Criminal Action ).

G. Eli Lilly will be entering into separate settlement agreements, described in

-2- 

Paragraph III.1(b) below (hereinafter referred to as the  Medicaid State Settlement Agreements )
with certain states and the District of Columbia in settlement of the Covered Conduct. States with
which Eli Lilly executes a Medicaid State Settlement Agreement in the form to which Eli Lilly and
the National Association of Medicaid Fraud Control Units ( NAMFCU ) have agreed, or in a form
otherwise agreed to by Eli Lilly and an individual State, shall be defined as  Medicaid
Participating States. 

H. The United States and the Medicaid Participating States allege that Eli Lilly caused
claims for payment for Zyprexa to be submitted to the Medicaid Program, Title XIX of the Social
Security Act, 42 U.S.C.    1396-1396v ( the Medicaid Program ).

I. The United States further alleges that Eli Lilly caused claims for payment for
Zyprexa to be submitted to the TRICARE program, 10 U.S.C.    1071-1109; the Federal Employees
Health Benefits Program ( FEHBP ), 5 U.S.C.    8901-8914; and caused purchases of Zyprexa by the
Department of Veterans Affairs ( DVA ), the Bureau of Prisons ( BOP ), the Department of Defense,
the Department of Labor, and the Public Health Service Entities.

J. The United States contends that it has certain civil claims against Eli Lilly, as
specified in Paragraph III.2 below, for engaging in the following conduct concerning the marketing,
promotion and sale of Zyprexa between September 1999 and
December 31, 2005 (hereinafter referred to
as the  Covered Conduct ):

-3- 

Eli Lilly knowingly promoted the sale and use of Zyprexa
to psychiatrists, other physicians (including primary
care physicians), and other health care professionals
(collectively,  Health Care Professionals ) for certain
uses for which the Food and Drug Administration had not
approved (i.e.  unapproved uses  Eli Lilly implemented
a marketing strategy to promote Zyprexa to Health Care
Professionals, who treated patients of all ages, for
unapproved uses; Eli Lilly also promoted Zyprexa to
Health Care Professionals treating patients in long term
care facilities for unapproved uses; Eli Lilly
encouraged Health Care Professionals to prescribe
Zyprexa in higher amounts than the recommended dose; the
promotion of Zyprexa for these unapproved uses violated
the Food Drug and Cosmetic Act, 21 U.S.C.   331 (a) and
21 U.S.C.   352(f); Eli Lilly, in connection with its
marketing and promotional efforts for Zyprexa, provided
remuneration and other things of value to Health Care
Professionals; and these unapproved uses were not
medically accepted indications for which the United
States and State Medicaid programs provided coverage.

As a result of the foregoing alleged conduct, the United
States contends that Eli Lilly knowingly caused false
and/or fraudulent claims to be submitted to the United
States and the Medicaid programs and caused TRICARE, the
FEHBP, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Bureau of
Prisons, the Department of Defense, the Department of
Labor, and Public Health Service Entities to purchase
Zyprexa for these unapproved uses. 

K. The United States also contends that it has certain administrative claims against Eli
Lilly as specified in Paragraphs III.4-6 below, for engaging in the Covered Conduct.

L. This Agreement is made in compromise of disputed claims. This Agreement is neither an
admission of facts or liability by Eli Lilly nor a concession by the United States that its

-4- 

claims are not well-founded. With the exception of the specific conduct for which Eli Lilly is
pleading guilty as described in the plea agreement filed in connection with the Federal Criminal
action, Eli Lilly expressly denies the allegations of the United States and the Relators as set
forth herein and in the Civil Actions and denies that it has engaged in any wrongful conduct in
connection with the Covered Conduct. Neither this agreement, its execution, nor the performance of
any obligation under it, including any payment, nor the fact of settlement, is intended to be, or
shall be understood as, an admission of liability or wrongdoing, or other expression reflecting
upon the merits of the dispute by Eli Lilly.

M. To avoid the delay, expense, inconvenience, and uncertainty of protracted litigation
of these claims, the Parties mutually desire to reach a full and final settlement as set forth
below.

III. 
       
      TERMS AND CONDITIONS  

1. Subject to the terms and procedures set forth below, Eli Lilly agrees to pay to the
United States the sum of Four Hundred Thirty Eight Million, One Hundred Seventy One Thousand, Five
Hundred Forty Three Dollars and Fifty Eight Cents ($438,171,543.58) plus accrued interest in an
amount of 3% per annum from October 20, 2008 and continuing until and including the day of payment
(the  Federal Settlement Amount ), and   pursuant to the terms of Paragraph III.1.b   agrees to
pay to all of the States and the District of Columbia (which shall be defined, for purposes of this
Agreement, as a State) Three Hundred Sixty One Million, Eight Hundred Twenty Eight Thousand, Four
Hundred Fifty Six Dollars and Forty Two Cents ($361,828,456.42) plus accrued interest in the amount
described in sub-paragraph III.1.b(ii)

-5- 

below, of which One Million, Four Hundred Thirty Three Thousand, Six Hundred Forty Two Dollars and
Ninety Six Cents ($1,433,642.96) has already been paid to the State of Alaska pursuant to a
separate settlement agreement. The amount of Three Hundred Sixty Million, Three Hundred Ninety Four
Thousand, Eight Hundred Thirteen Dollars and Forty Six Cents ($360,394,813.46) shall be defined as
the  Medicaid State Settlement Amount .

(a) The Federal Settlement Amount shall be paid by electronic funds transfer
pursuant to written instructions to be provided by the United States. Eli Lilly agrees to make
this
electronic funds transfer no later than ten (10) business days after the date on which the
Court
accepts Eli Lilly s guilty plea in connection with the Federal Criminal Action and imposes the
agreed-upon sentence.

(b) Eli Lilly shall pay the States according to the following terms:

(i) No later than ten (10) business days following the date on which the Court accepts
Eli Lilly s guilty plea in connection with the Federal Criminal Action and imposes the agreed-upon
sentence (the  Account Establishment Date ), Eli Lilly shall deposit the Medicaid State Settlement
Amount plus accrued interest in the amount of 3% per annum earned on that amount from October
20, 2008 to the Account Establishment Date into one or more interest-bearing money market or bank
accounts that are held in the name of Eli Lilly but segregated from other Eli Lilly accounts (the
 State Settlement Accounts ).

(ii) From the State Settlement Accounts, Eli Lilly shall pay (through the mechanism
described below involving the New York State Attorney General s National Global Settlement Account
(the  NY State Account )) to each State (with the exception of Alaska, with which Eli Lilly has
reached a separate agreement including this matter) that

-6- 

becomes a Medicaid
Participating State (as that term is defined above) within the time limits
established in subparagraph III.1.b(iv) below, that State s share of the Medicaid State Settlement
Amount (as set forth in a communication from NAMFCU to Eli Lilly counsel on January 13, 2009) (the
 Individual State Share ) plus accrued interest on that Individual State Share in the amount of 3%
per annum from October 20, 2008 to the Account Establishment Date plus that State s pro rata share
of interest accrued in the State Settlement Accounts from the day following the Account
Establishment Date until the date that payment is made to the NY State Account. Eli Lilly shall
execute a Medicaid State Settlement Agreement with any State that executes such an agreement;
provided, however, that Eli Lilly reserves the right not to execute a Medicaid State Settlement
Agreement with any State that is engaged in litigation with Eli Lilly in a matter relating to
Zyprexa. Eli Lilly shall pay the aggregate amount that it owes to the States that become Medicaid
Participating States within 60 days following the Account Establishment Date to the NY State
Account, pursuant to written wire instructions provided by NAMFCU, on the 70 th  day
following the Account Establishment Date or within two (2) business days following receipt by Eli
Lilly of the written wire instructions, whichever is later.

(iii) Eli Lilly may, at its sole discretion, waive any rights that it has reserved in
sub-paragraph III.1.b(ii) with respect to the payment of any of the Individual State Shares.

(iv) Except as otherwise provided in this sub-paragraph, absent Lilly s consent, no State
may become a Medicaid Participating State if it has not executed a Medicaid State Settlement
Agreement within 60 days following the Account Establishment Date. (A Medicaid Participating State
shall be deemed to have become a Medicaid Participating State on

-7- 

the date on which it executed a Medicaid State Settlement Agreement.) If, on the 60 th 
day following the Account Establishment Date, Eli Lilly is obligated pursuant to the terms of
sub-paragraph III.1.b(ii) to pay to the NY State Account an aggregate amount less than the Medicaid
State Settlement Amount, Eli Lilly shall be entitled to retain any such difference, commingle it
with any other corporate funds, and use it for any purpose, and no State shall be entitled to any
portion of that difference pursuant to the terms of this Agreement. In the event that there are
twenty five (25) or more Medicaid Participating States by the 60 th  day following the
Account Establishment Date, the deadline for becoming a Medicaid Participating State shall be
extended by 30 days, and Eli Lilly s rights pursuant to this sub-paragraph III.1.b(iv) shall accrue
on the 90 th  day following the Account Establishment Date. In the event that the
immediately foregoing clause is triggered, Eli Lilly shall pay the aggregate amount that it owes to
the States that become Medicaid Participating States in the period from 61-90 days following the
Account Establishment Date to the NY State Account, pursuant to written wire instructions provided
by NAMFCU, on the 100 th  day following the Account Establishment Date or within two (2)
business days following receipt by Eli Lilly of the written wire instructions, whichever is later.

(c) Subject to the terms of this paragraph, Eli Lilly shall mail checks to affected
Public Health Service entities the aggregate sum of Seven Hundred Fifty One Thousand, Five Hundred
and Forty Three Dollars and Eighty Eight Cents ($751,543.88, plus interest accrued thereon at a
rate of 3% per annum from October 20, 2008, continuing until and including the day before checks are
mailed pursuant to this paragraph (the  Public Health Settlement Amount ). Within 60 days of the
date on which the Court accepts Eli Lilly s guilty plea in connection with the Federal Criminal
Action and imposes the agreed-upon sentence, Eli

-8- 

Lilly shall distribute to each affected Public Health Service entity a check in the amount of its
proportionate share of the Public Health Settlement Amount along with a cover letter referencing
this Agreement and providing that, by cashing the check, the entity is releasing Eli Lilly and its
predecessors and current and former parents, affiliates, divisions, subsidiaries, successors,
transferees, heirs, and assigns, and their current and former directors, officers and employees,
individually and collectively, from liability for the Covered Conduct.

(d) Contingent upon the United States receiving the Federal Settlement Amount
from Eli Lilly, the United States agrees to pay, as soon as feasible after receipt, to Relator
Rudolph
$78,870,877.84 plus the pro rata share of the actual accrued interest paid to the United
States by
Eli Lilly on the amount set forth in Paragraph III.1.a above ( Relator s Share ).

(e) Relators have entered into a separate agreement concerning the allocation
of the Relators  Share among themselves.

2. Subject to the exceptions in Paragraph 7 below (concerning excluded claims), in
consideration of the obligations of Eli Lilly in this Agreement, conditioned upon Eli Lilly s full
payment of the Federal Settlement Amount, and subject to Paragraph 16 below (concerning bankruptcy
proceedings commenced within 91 days of the Effective Date of this Agreement or any payment made
under this Agreement), the United States (on behalf of itself, its officers, agents, agencies, and
departments) agrees to release Eli Lilly, its predecessors, current and former parents, affiliates,
divisions, subsidiaries, successors, transferees, heirs, and assigns, and their current and former
directors, officers and employees, individually and collectively, from any civil or administrative
monetary claim the United States has or may have for the Covered Conduct under the False Claims
Act, 31 U.S.C.    3729-3733; the Program Fraud Civil

-9- 

Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C.    3801-12; any statutory provision creating a cause of action for civil
damages or civil penalties for which the Civil Division of the Department of Justice has actual and
present authority to assert and compromise pursuant to 28 C.F.R. Part O, Subpart I, Section 0.45(D)
(1999) or the common law theories of payment by mistake, unjust enrichment, fraud, disgorgement of
illegal profits, and, if applicable, breach of contract.

Subject to the exceptions in Paragraph 7 below (concerning excluded claims), in consideration
of the obligations of Eli Lilly in this Agreement, conditioned upon Eli Lilly s full payment of the
Federal Settlement Amount and compliance with sub-paragraphs III.1.b(i), (ii), and (iv) of this
Agreement, subject to Paragraph 16 below (concerning bankruptcy proceedings commenced within 91
days of the Effective Date of this Agreement or any payment made under this Agreement), the United
States (on behalf of itself, its officers, agents, agencies, and departments) agrees to release Eli
Lilly, its predecessors and current and former parents, affiliates, divisions, subsidiaries,
successors, transferees, heirs, and assigns, and their current and former directors, officers and
employees, individually and collectively, from any claim the United States has or may have for the
Covered Conduct under the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, 42 U.S.C.  1320a-7a.

3. In consideration of the obligations of Eli Lilly in this Agreement, conditioned upon
Eli Lilly s full payment of the Federal Settlement Amount and compliance with sub-paragraphs
III.1.b.(i), (ii), and (iv) of this Agreement, Relators Faltaous, Woodward, Vicente, Rudolph,
Rosado, Daywitt, Bradley Lutz, Wetta, and Lofing, for themselves and for their heirs, successors,
transferees, attorneys, agents, and assigns, agree to dismiss with prejudice any currently pending
claims against Eli Lilly and release Eli Lilly, its predecessors and current and

-10- 

former parents, affiliates, divisions, subsidiaries, successors, transferees, heirs, and assigns,
and their current and former directors, officers, employees, agents, servants, representatives,
attorneys, consultants, successors, heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, individually and
collectively, from all liability, claims, demands, actions or causes of action whatsoever, known or
unknown, fixed or contingent, in law or in equity, in contract or in tort, under any federal or
state statute or regulation or that they otherwise would have standing to bring, except that they
expressly reserve any claims arising under the  qui tam  provisions of the False Claims Act of any
State with which Eli Lilly does not execute a Medicaid State Settlement Agreement pursuant to the
terms of this Agreement.

4. In consideration of the obligations of Eli Lilly set forth in this Agreement and the
Corporate Integrity Agreement ( CIA ) entered into between OIG-HHS and Eli Lilly, conditioned on
Eli Lilly s payment in full of the Federal Settlement Amount and compliance with sub-paragraphs
III.1.b(i), (ii), and (iv) of this Agreement, and subject to Paragraph 16 below (concerning
bankruptcy proceedings commenced within 91 days of the Effective Date of this Agreement or any
payment under this Agreement), the OIG-HHS agrees to release and refrain from instituting,
directing, or maintaining any administrative action seeking exclusion from the Medicare, Medicaid,
and other Federal health care programs (as defined in 42 U.S.C.   1320a-7b(f)) against Eli Lilly
and Lilly USA, LLC under 42 U.S.C.   1320a-7a (Civil Monetary Penalties Law) or 42 U.S.C.  
1320a-7(b)(7) (permissive exclusion for fraud, kickbacks or other prohibited activities) for the
Covered Conduct, except as reserved in Paragraph 7 (concerning excluded claims), below, and as
reserved in this Section.

-11- 

In consideration of the obligations of Eli Lilly set forth in this Agreement and the CIA
entered into between OIG-HHS and Eli Lilly, conditioned on Eli Lilly s payment in full of the
Federal Settlement Amount and compliance with sub-paragraphs III.1.b(i), (ii), and (iv) of this
Agreement, and subject to Paragraph 16 below (concerning bankruptcy proceedings commenced within 91
days of the Effective Date of this Agreement or any payment made under this Agreement), the OIG-HHS
agrees to release and refrain from instituting, directing, or maintaining any administrative action
seeking exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid, and other Federal health care programs (as defined in 42
U.S.C.   1320a-7b(f)) against Eli Lilly under 42 U.S.C.   1320a-7(b)(l) (permissive exclusion for
conviction relating to fraud) based on the Federal Criminal Action referenced in Paragraph F,
except as reserved in paragraph 7 (concerning excluded claims) below, and as reserved in this
Section.

The OIG-HHS expressly reserves all rights to comply with any statutory obligations to exclude
Eli Lilly from the Medicare, Medicaid, or other Federal health care programs under 42 U.S.C.  
1320a-7(a) (mandatory exclusion) based upon the Covered Conduct or the Federal Criminal Action.
Nothing in this Section precludes the OIG-HHS from taking action against entities or persons, or
for conduct and practices, for which claims have been reserved in Paragraph 7, below.

5. In consideration of the obligations of Eli Lilly set forth in this Agreement,
conditioned upon Eli Lilly s full payment of the Federal Settlement Amount and compliance with
sub-paragraphs III.1.b(i), (ii), and (iv) of this Agreement, and subject to Paragraph 16, below
(concerning bankruptcy proceedings commenced within 91 days of the Effective Date of this Agreement
or any payment under this Agreement), TMA agrees to release and refrain from

-12- 

instituting, directing, or maintaining any administrative action seeking exclusion from the TRICARE
Program against Eli Lilly, its predecessors and current and former parents, affiliates, divisions,
subsidiaries, successors, transferees, heirs, and assigns, and their current and former directors,
officers and employees, individually and collectively, under 32 C.F.R.   199.9 for the Covered
Conduct, except as reserved in Paragraph 7 (concerning excluded claims) below, and as reserved in
this Paragraph. TMA expressly reserves its authority to exclude Eli Lilly under 32 C.F.R.  
199.9(f)(1)(i)(A), (f)(1)(i)(B), and (f)(1)(iii), based upon the Covered Conduct. Nothing in this
Paragraph precludes TMA or the TRICARE Program from taking action against entities or persons, or
for conduct and practices, for which claims have been reserved in Paragraph 7, below.

6. In consideration of the obligations of Eli Lilly set forth in this Agreement and
conditioned upon Eli Lilly s full payment of the Federal Settlement Amount and compliance with
sub-paragraphs III.1.b(i), (ii), and (iv) of this Agreement, and subject to Paragraph 16 below
(concerning bankruptcy proceedings commenced within 91 days of the Effective Date of this Agreement
or any payment under this Agreement), OPM agrees to release and refrain from instituting,
directing, or maintaining any administrative action against Eli Lilly, its predecessors and current
and former parents, affiliates, divisions, subsidiaries, successors, transferees, heirs, and
assigns, and their current and former directors, officers and employees, individually and
collectively, under 5 U.S.C.   8902a(b) or 5 C.F.R. Part 919 for the Covered Conduct, except as
reserved in Paragraph 7 (concerning excluded claims) below, and except if required by 5 U.S.C.  
8902a(b). Nothing in this Paragraph precludes OPM from taking action against entities or

-13- 

persons, or for conduct and practices, for which claims have been reserved in Paragraph 7,
below.

7. Notwithstanding any term of this Agreement, specifically reserved and excluded
from the scope and terms of this Agreement as to any entity or person (including Eli Lilly and
Relators) are the following claims of the United States:

(a) Any criminal, civil, or administrative liability arising under Title 26, U.S.
Code (Internal Revenue Code);

(b) Any criminal liability except as set forth in the Plea Agreement resolving
the Federal Criminal Action;

(c) Except as explicitly stated in this Agreement, any administrative liability,
including mandatory exclusion from Federal health care programs;

(d) Any liability to the United States (or its agencies) for any conduct other than the Covered Conduct;

(e) Any liability based upon such obligations as are created by this
Agreement;

(f) Any liability for express or implied warranty claims or other claims for
defective or deficient products and services, including quality of goods and services;

(g) Any liability for personal injury or property damage or for other
consequential damages arising from the Covered Conduct; and

(h) Any liability for failure to deliver items or services due.

8. Relators, their heirs, successors, attorneys, agents, and assigns agree not to object to this
Agreement and agree and confirm that this Agreement is fair, adequate, and reasonable

-14- 

under all the circumstances, pursuant to 31 U.S.C.   3730(c)(2)(B). Conditioned upon Relator
Rudolph s receipt of the Relators  Share, Relators, for themselves individually, and for their
heirs, successors, agents, and assigns, fully and finally release, waive, and forever discharge the
United States, its officers, agents, and employees from any claims arising from or relating to 31
U.S.C.   3730; from any claims arising from the filing of the Civil Actions identified in
Paragraphs II (B) through II (E); from any other claims for a share of the Settlement Amount; and
in full settlement of any claims Relators may have under this Agreement. This Agreement does not
resolve or in any manner affect any claims the United States has or may have against the Relators
arising under Title 26, U.S. Code (Internal Revenue Code), or any claims arising under this
Agreement.

9. Eli Lilly waives and shall not assert any defenses it may have to criminal prosecution or
administrative action relating to the Covered Conduct based in whole or in part on a contention
that, under the Double Jeopardy Clause of the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, or the Excessive
Fines Clause of the Eighth Amendment of the Constitution, this Agreement bars a remedy sought in
such criminal prosecution or administrative action. Nothing in this paragraph or any other
provision of this Agreement constitutes an agreement by the United States concerning the
characterization of the Settlement Amount for purposes of the Internal Revenue laws, Title 26 of
the United States Code.

10. Eli Lilly fully and finally releases, waives and discharges the United States, its
agencies, employees, servants, and agents from any claims (including attorneys  fees, costs, and
expenses of every kind and however denominated) that Eli Lilly has asserted, could have asserted,
or may assert in the future against the United States, its agencies, employees, servants,

-15- 

and agents, related to or arising from the Covered Conduct and the United States  investigation and
prosecution of the Covered Conduct and the Civil Actions identified in Paragraphs II (B) through
(E).

11. Neither the Federal Settlement Amount nor the Medicaid State Settlement Amount shall be
decreased as a result of the denial of claims for payment now being withheld from payment by any
State or Federal payer, related to the Covered Conduct; and Eli Lilly shall not resubmit to any
State or Federal payer any previously denied claims, which denials were based on the Covered
Conduct, and shall not appeal or cause the appeal of any such denials of claims.

12. Eli Lilly agrees to the following:

(a)  Unallowable Costs Defined . All costs (as defined in the Federal Acquisition
Regulation ( FAR ), 48 C.F.R.   31.205-47 and in Titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act,
42 U.S.C.    1395-1395hhh and 1396-1396v, and the regulations and official program directives
promulgated thereunder) incurred by or on behalf of Eli Lilly, its predecessors, parents,
divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates, and its present or former officers, directors, employees,
and agents in connection with the following shall be  unallowable costs  on Government contracts:
(1) the matters covered by this Agreement; (2) the United States  audit and civil and criminal
investigation relating to matters covered by this Agreement; (3) Eli Lilly s investigation,
defense, and any corrective actions undertaken in response to the United States  civil and criminal
investigations in connection with the matters covered by this Agreement (including attorneys 
fees); (4) the negotiation and performance of this Agreement and the Medicaid State Settlement
Agreements and any agreement(s) with Relators concerning

-16- 

fees and costs; (5) the payments made to the United States or any State pursuant to this Agreement
or the Medicaid State Settlement Agreements and any payments that Eli Lilly may make to any  qui 
 tam  plaintiffs; and (6) the negotiation of and obligations undertaken pursuant to the CIA to: (a)
retain an independent review organization to perform annual reviews as described in Section III of
the CIA; and (b) prepare and submit reports to OIG-HHS. However, nothing in this Paragraph affects
the status of costs that are not allowable based on any other authority applicable to Eli Lilly.
(All costs described or set forth in this Paragraph are hereafter,  Unallowable Costs ).

(b)  Future Treatment of Unallowable Costs . If applicable, these Unallowable Costs
shall be separately estimated and accounted for by Eli Lilly and Eli Lilly shall not charge such
Unallowable Costs directly or indirectly to any contracts with the United States or any State
Medicaid program, or seek payment for such Unallowable Costs through any cost report, cost
statement, information statement, or payment request submitted by Eli Lilly, its predecessors,
parents, divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates to any government program.

(c)  Treatment of Unallowable Costs Previously Submitted for Payment . If applicable,
Eli Lilly further agrees that, within 90 days of the Effective Date of this Agreement, it shall
identify to applicable Medicare and TRICARE fiscal intermediaries, carriers, and/or contractors,
and Medicaid, DVA, BOP, and FEHBP fiscal agents, any Unallowable Costs (as defined in this
Paragraph) included in payments previously sought from the United States, or any State Medicaid
Program, including, but not limited to, payments sought in any cost reports, cost statements,
information reports, or payment requests already submitted by Eli Lilly, its predecessors, parents,
divisions, subsidiaries, or affiliates and shall request, and agree, that such

-17- 

cost reports, cost statements, information reports, or payment requests, even if already settled,
be adjusted to account for the effect of the inclusion of the Unallowable Costs. Eli Lilly agrees
that the United States, at a minimum, shall be entitled to recoup from Eli Lilly any overpayment,
plus applicable interest and penalties, as a result of the inclusion of such Unallowable Costs on
previously-submitted cost reports, information reports, cost statements, or requests for payment.
Any payments due after the adjustments have been made shall be paid to the United States pursuant
to the direction of the Department of Justice and/or of the affected agencies. The United States
reserves its rights to disagree with any calculations submitted by Eli Lilly, its predecessors,
parents, divisions, subsidiaries or affiliates on the effect of inclusion of Unallowable Costs on
Eli Lilly s or its predecessors , parents , divisions , subsidiaries  or affiliates  cost reports,
cost statements, or information reports.

(d) Nothing in this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of the rights of the United
States to examine or re-examine Eli Lilly s books and records to determine that no Unallowable
Costs have been claimed in accordance with the provisions of this Paragraph.

13. This Agreement is intended to be for the benefit of the Parties only. The Parties
do not release any claims against any other person or entity, except to the extent provided
for in Paragraph 14 (Waiver for Beneficiaries paragraph), below.

14. Eli Lilly shall not seek payment for any of the claims for reimbursement covered
by this Agreement from any health care beneficiaries or their parents, sponsors, legally
responsible individuals, or third party payors based upon the claims defined as Covered
Conduct.

15. Eli Lilly warrants that it has reviewed its financial situation and that it is currently
solvent within the meaning of 11 U.S.C.    547(b)(3) and
548(a)(1)(B)(ii)(I), and shall remain

-18- 

solvent following payment of the Federal Settlement Amount and compliance with sub-paragraphs
III.1.b(i), (ii), and (iv) of this Agreement. Further, the Parties expressly warrant that, in
evaluating whether to execute this Agreement, they (a) have intended that the mutual promises,
covenants, and obligations set forth herein constitute a contemporaneous exchange for new value
given to Eli Lilly, within the meaning of 11 U.S.C.   547(c)(1); and (b) have concluded that these
mutual promises, covenants and obligations do, in fact, constitute such a contemporaneous exchange.
Further, the Parties warrant that the mutual promises, covenants, and obligations set forth herein
are intended to and do, in fact, represent a reasonably equivalent exchange of value that is not
intended to hinder, delay, or defraud any entity that Eli Lilly was or became indebted to on or
after the date of this transfer, within the meaning of 11 U.S.C.   548(a)(1).

16. If within 91 days of the Effective Date of this Agreement or of any payment made
under this Agreement, Eli Lilly commences, or a third party commences, any case, proceeding, or
other action under any law relating to bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, or relief of debtors
(a) seeking to have any order for relief of Eli Lilly s debts, or seeking to adjudicate Eli Lilly
as bankrupt or insolvent; or (b) seeking appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, or other
similar official for Eli Lilly or for all or any substantial part of Eli Lilly s assets, Eli Lilly
agrees as follows, to the extent consistent with applicable law:

(a) Eli Lilly s obligations under this Agreement may not be avoided pursuant to 11
U.S.C.   547, and Eli Lilly shall not argue or otherwise take the position in any such case,
proceeding, or action that: (i) Eli Lilly s obligations under this Agreement may be avoided under
11 U.S.C.   547; (ii) Eli Lilly was insolvent at the time this Agreement was entered into, or

-19- 

became insolvent as a result of the payment made to the United States; or (iii) the mutual
promises, covenants, and obligations set forth in this Agreement do not constitute a
contemporaneous exchange for new value given to Eli Lilly.

(b) In the event that Eli Lilly s obligations hereunder are avoided for any reason,
including, but not limited to, the exercise of a trustee s avoidance powers under the Bankruptcy
Code, the United States, at its sole option, may rescind the releases in this Agreement, and bring
any civil and/or administrative claim, action, or proceeding against Eli Lilly for the claims that
would otherwise be covered by the releases provided in this Agreement. If the United States chooses
to do so, Eli Lilly agrees that, for purposes only of any case, action, or proceeding referenced in
the first clause of this Paragraph, (i) any such claims, actions or proceedings brought by the
United States (including any proceedings to exclude Eli Lilly from participation in Medicare,
Medicaid, or other federal health care programs) are not subject to an  automatic stay  pursuant to
11 U.S.C. Section 362(a) as a result of the action, case or proceeding described in the first
clause of this Paragraph, and that Eli Lilly will not argue or otherwise contend that the United
States  claims, actions or proceedings are subject to an automatic stay; (ii) that Eli Lilly will
not plead, argue or otherwise raise any defenses under the theories of statute of limitations,
laches, estoppel, or similar theories, to any such civil or administrative claims, actions, or
proceedings which are brought by the United States within 30 calendar days of written notification
to Eli Lilly that the releases herein have been rescinded pursuant to this Paragraph, except to the
extent such defenses were available before February 21, 2003; and (iii) the United States and the
Medicaid Participating States have valid claims against Eli Lilly in the aggregate amount of at
least $800,000,000 plus applicable multipliers and

-20- 

penalties, and they may pursue their claims,  inter   alia , in the case, action or
proceeding referenced in the first clause of this Paragraph, as well as in any other
case, action, or proceeding; and

(c) Eli Lilly acknowledges that its agreements in this Paragraph are provided in
exchange for valuable consideration provided in this Agreement.

17. The United States shall file a Notice of Partial Intervention as to all Federal Counts in
the Civil Actions that pertain to the Covered Conduct, along with an executed copy of this
Agreement. Within five business days after payment of the Federal Settlement Amount and Eli Lilly s
compliance with sub-paragraph III.1.b(i) of this Agreement, the United States and the Relators
shall file Stipulations of Dismissal With Prejudice as to all Federal Counts in the Civil Actions
that pertain to the Covered Conduct pursuant to the terms of this Agreement.

18. Except as expressly provided to the contrary in this Agreement, each Party shall bear its
own legal and other costs incurred in connection with this matter, including the preparation and
performance of this Agreement.

19. Eli Lilly represents that this Agreement is freely and voluntarily entered into
without any degree of duress or compulsion whatsoever.

20. Relators represent that this Agreement is freely and voluntarily entered into
without any degree of duress or compulsion whatsoever.

21. This Agreement is governed by the laws of the United States. The Parties agree that the
exclusive jurisdiction and venue for any dispute arising between and among the Parties under this
Agreement shall be the United States District Court for the Eastern District of

-21- 

Pennsylvania, except that disputes arising under the CIA shall be resolved exclusively through the
dispute resolution provisions set forth in the CIA.

22. For purposes of construction, this Agreement shall be deemed to have been drafted by all
parties to this Agreement and shall not, therefore, be construed against any Party for that reason
in any subsequent dispute.

23. This Agreement constitutes the complete agreement between the Parties with respect to the
issues covered by this Agreement. This Agreement may not be amended except by written consent of
the Parties.

24. The individuals signing this Agreement on behalf of Eli Lilly represent and warrant that
they are authorized by Eli Lilly to execute this Agreement. The individual(s) signing this
Agreement on behalf of Relators represent and warrant that they are authorized by that Relator to
execute this Agreement. The United States signatories represent that they are signing this
Agreement in their official capacities and that they are authorized to execute this Agreement.

25. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which constitutes an original and
all of which constitute one and the same Agreement.

26. This Agreement is binding on Eli Lilly s successors, transferees, heirs, and
assigns.

27. This Agreement is binding on Relators  successors, transferees, heirs, attorneys, agents,
and assigns.

28. All Parties consent to the United States  disclosure of this Agreement, and
information about this Agreement, to the public.

-22- 

29. This Agreement is effective on the date of signature of the last signatory to the
Agreement (the  Effective Date ). Facsimiles of signatures shall constitute acceptable binding
signatures for purposes of this Agreement.

30. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if the guilty plea referenced in
Paragraph II.F is not accepted by the Court or the Court does not impose the agreed upon sentence
for whatever reason, this Agreement shall be null and void at the option of either the United
States or Eli Lilly. If either the United States or Eli Lilly exercises this option, which option
shall be exercised by notifying all Parties, through counsel, in writing within 5 business days of
the Court s decision, the Parties will not object and this Agreement will be rescinded. If the
Agreement is rescinded, Eli Lilly waives any affirmative defenses based in whole or in part on the
running of the statute of limitations during the period from the Effective Date of this Agreement
through 30 days after the effective date of the rescission.

-23- 

Page intentionally left blank 

-24- 

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA 

By:

/s/ Laurie Magid

LAURIE MAGID

Dated: 1/14/09

Acting United States Attorney 

United States Attorney s Office 

Eastern District of Pennsylvania 

By:

/s/ Virginia Gibson

Dated: 1/14/09 

VIRGINIA GIBSON 

Chief, Civil Division 

United States Attorney s Office 

Eastern District of Pennsylvania 

By:

/s/ Margaret L. Hutchinson

Dated: 1/14/09 

MARGARET L. HUTCHINSON 

Deputy Chief, Civil Division 

United States Attorney s Office 

Eastern District of Pennsylvania 

By:

/s/ Joseph Trautwein

Dated: 1/14/09 

JOSEPH TRAUTWEIN 

Assistant U.S. Attorney 

United States Attorney s Office 

Eastern District of Pennsylvania 

-25- 

By:

/s/ Patricia Hanower

PATRICIA HANOWER

Dated: January 14, 2009

Trial Attorney 

Commercial Litigation Branch 

Civil Division 

United States Department of Justice 

-26- 

By:

/s/ Gregory E. Demske

GREGORY E. DEMSKE

Dated: 1/14/09

Assistant Inspector General for Legal Affairs 

Office of Counsel to the Inspector General 

Office of Inspector General 

U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 

-27- 

By:

/s/ Laurel C. Gillespe

LAUREL C. GILLESPE

Dated: 12 Jan 2009

Deputy General Counsel 

TRICARE Management Activity 

United States Department of Defense On behalf of the TRICARE program

Eli Lilly Settlement Agreement

-28- 

By:

/s/ Lorraine E. Dettman

LORRAINE E. DETTMAN

Dated: 1/12/09

Assistant Director 

for Insurance Services Programs 

United States Office of Personnel Management 

By:

/s/ J. David Cope

J. DAVID COPE

Dated: 1/13/09

Assistant Inspector General for Legal Affairs 

United States Office of Personnel Management 

On behalf of the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program

-29- 

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 

By:

/s/ Robert A. Armitage

ROBERT A. ARMITAGE

Dated: 14 Jan 2009

Senior Vice President and General Counsel 

Eli Lilly and Company 

By:

/s/ Paul E. Kalb

PAUL E. KALB, M.D.

Dated: 1/14/09 

Sidley Austin LLP 

Counsel for Eli Lilly and Company 

By:

/s/ Bradford A. Berenson

Dated: 1/14/09 

BRADFORD A. BERENSON 

Sidley Austin LLP 

Counsel for Eli Lilly and Company 

By:

/s/ Nina M. Gussack

Dated: 1/14/09 

NINA M. GUSSACK 

Pepper Hamilton LLP 

Counsel for Eli Lilly and Company 

By:

/s/ Thomas M. Gallagher

Dated: 1/14/09 

THOMAS M. GALLAGHER 

Pepper Hamilton LLP 

Counsel for Eli Lilly and Company 

-30- 

RELATORS 

-31- 

By:

/s/ Michael M. Mustokoff

MICHAEL M. MUSTOKOFF

Dated: 1/14/09

Duane Morris, LLP 

By:

/s/ Stephen A. Sheller

Dated: 1/14/09 

STEPHEN A. SHELLER 

By:

/s/ Gary M. Farmer

Dated: 1/14/09 

GARY M. FARMER, JR. 

Rothstein Rosenfeldt Adler 

(Attorneys for Robert Rudolph, Hector Rosado, Robert Evan Daywitt, Bradley Lutz, James
Wetta and William Lofing)

-32- 

By:

/s/ Joseph Faltaous

Dated: 1-14-09

JOSEPH FALTAOUS 

By:

/s/ Joel Androphy

JOEL ANDROPHY

Dated: 1-14-09 

SARAH M. FRAZIER 

Berg   Androphy 

(Attorneys for Joseph Faltaous) 

-33- 

By:

/s/ Steven Woodward

STEVEN WOODWARD

Dated: 1/13/09

By:

/s/ Brian P. Kenney

Dated: 1/14/09 

BRIAN P. KENNEY 

Kenney Egan McCafferty   Young 

(Attorneys for Steven Woodward) 

-34- 

By:

/s/ Jaydeen Vicente

JAYDEEN VICENTE 

Dated: 01/13/09 

By:

/s/ Brian P. Kenney

BRIAN P. KENNEY 

Dated: 1/14/09 

Kenney Egan McCafferty   Young 

By:

/s/ Mark Burton 

Dated: 1/14/09 

MARK BURTON 

Hersh   Hersh 

(Attorneys for Jaydeen Vicente) 

-35- 

</EX-10.16>

<EX-10.17>
 6
 c49534exv10w17.htm
 EX-10.17

EX-10.17 

Exhibit 10.17 

CORPORATE INTEGRITY AGREEMENT  
  between the  
 Office of Inspector General   
  of the  
 Department of Health and Human Services   
  and  
 Eli Lilly and Company  

I.
   Preamble   

Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly) hereby enters into this Corporate Integrity Agreement (CIA) with
the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the United States Department of Health and Human Services
(HHS) to promote compliance with the statutes, regulations, and written directives of Medicare,
Medicaid, and all other Federal health care programs (as defined in 42 U.S.C.   1320a-7b(f))
(Federal health care program requirements) and with the statutes, regulations, and written
directives of the Food and Drug Administration (FDA requirements). Contemporaneously with this CIA,
Lilly is entering into a Settlement Agreement with the United States. Lilly will also enter into
settlement agreements with various States (State Settlement Agreement and Release) and Lilly s
agreement to this CIA is a condition precedent to those agreements.

Prior to the Effective Date of this CIA (as defined below), Lilly established a voluntary
compliance program applicable to all Lilly employees (Compliance Program). Lilly s Compliance
Program includes a Chief Compliance Officer who reports directly to the Board of Directors and the
CEO, and a Compliance Committee. The Compliance Program also includes a Code of Conduct (known as
 The Red Book ) applicable to all employees that is regularly reviewed and disseminated, written
policies and procedures, educational and training initiatives, a Disclosure Program that allows for
the confidential disclosure and investigation of potential compliance violations and appropriate
disciplinary procedures, and regular monitoring and internal auditing procedures.

Lilly shall continue its Compliance Program throughout the term of this CIA and shall do so in
accordance with the terms set forth below. Lilly may modify its Compliance Program as appropriate,
but, at a minimum, Lilly shall ensure that during the term of this CIA, it shall comply with the
obligations set forth herein.

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

1 

II. 
   Term and Scope of the
CIA    

A. The period of the compliance obligations assumed by Lilly under this CIA
shall be five years from the effective date of this CIA, unless otherwise specified. The
effective date shall be the date by which Lilly is obligated to pay the Federal Settlement
Amount as set forth in the Settlement Agreement between Eli Lilly and the United States
(Effective Date). Each one-year period, beginning with the one-year period following the
first day of the first calendar month following the Effective Date, shall be referred to as a
 Reporting Period. 

B. Sections VII, IX, X, and XI shall expire no later than 120 days after OIG s
receipt of: (1) Lilly s final Annual Report; or (2) any additional materials submitted by
Lilly pursuant to OIG s request, whichever is later.

C. The scope of this CIA shall be governed by the following definitions:

1. 
       
      Covered Persons  includes: 

a. all owners who are natural persons and: (i) have an ownership
interest of 5% or more of the outstanding shares; or (ii) are involved
in the business operations of Lilly or Lilly USA, LLC (Lilly USA);

b. all officers and directors of Lilly and Lilly USA, and all
employees of Lilly and Lilly USA based in the United States except
as carved out below in this Section II.C.1; and

c. all contractors, subcontractors, agents, and other persons who
perform Promotional and Product Services Related Functions (as
defined below in Section II.C.4) on behalf of Lilly or Lilly USA.

Notwithstanding the above, the term  Covered Persons  does not include: (i) officers
or employees of Elanco; (ii) part-time or per diem employees, contractors,
subcontractors, agents, and other persons who are not reasonably expected to work
more than 160 hours per year, except that any such individuals shall become  Covered
Persons  at the point when they work more than 160 hours during the calendar year.

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

2 

2. 
       
      Relevant Covered Persons  includes all Covered Persons whose job
responsibilities relate to Promotional and Product Services Related
Functions. This group includes, but is not limited to, Covered Persons
from the following groups or divisions who perform, supervise, or have
responsibilities relating to, or in support of, the Promotional and Product
Services Related Functions of Lilly or Lilly USA: Financial, Quality,
Information Technology, Legal, Lilly Research Laboratories, Global
Marketing and Sales Organization, Regulatory, Corporate Affairs, and
Human Resources. 

3. 
       
      Government Reimbursed Products  refers to all Lilly human
pharmaceutical products that are reimbursed by Federal health care
programs. This term includes all products promoted or sold by Lilly or
Lilly USA in the United States. 

4. 
       
     The term  Promotional and Product Services Related Functions 
includes: (a) the selling, detailing, marketing, advertising, promoting, or
branding of Government Reimbursed Products; and (b) the preparation
or dissemination of materials or information about, or the provision of
services relating to, Government Reimbursed Products that are
distributed in the United States. 

5. 
       
     The term  Third Party Educational Activity  shall mean any
continuing
medical education (CME), disease awareness, or other scientific,
educational, or professional program, meeting, or event sponsored by
Lilly, including but not limited to, sponsorship of symposia at medical
conferences. 

6. 
       
     The term  Third Party Personnel  shall mean personnel of the
entities
with whom Lilly or Lilly USA have or may in the future enter into
agreements to co-promote a Government Reimbursed Product in the
United States or engage in joint promotional activities in the United
States relating to such a product. Lilly has represented that: (1) the
Third Party Personnel are employed by entities independent of Lilly or
Lilly USA; (2) Lilly or Lilly USA does not control Third Party
Personnel; and (3) it would be commercially impracticable to compel
the compliance of Third Party Personnel with the requirements set forth
in this CIA. Lilly agrees to promote compliance by Third Party 

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

3 

Personnel with Federal health care program and FDA requirements by complying
with the provisions set forth below in Sections III.B.2, V.A.7, and V.B.4
related to Third Party Personnel who meet the definition of Covered Persons.
Provided that Lilly complies with the requirements of Sections III.B.2, V.A.7,
and V.B.4, Lilly shall not be required to fulfill the other CIA obligations that
would otherwise apply to Third Party Personnel who meet the definition of
Covered Persons.

III.     Corporate Integrity Obligations   

Lilly shall establish and maintain a Compliance Program throughout the term of this CIA that
includes the following elements:

A.  Compliance Responsibilities of Certain Lilly Employees and the Board of
Directors .

1.  Chief Compliance Officer.  Prior to the Effective Date, Lilly appointed a
Chief Compliance Officer, and Lilly shall maintain a Chief Compliance Officer during
the term of the CIA. The Chief Compliance Officer shall be responsible for developing
and implementing policies, procedures, and practices designed to ensure compliance with
the requirements set forth in this CIA and with Federal health care program requirements
and FDA requirements. The Chief Compliance Officer shall be a member of senior
management of Lilly, shall make periodic (at least quarterly) reports regarding
compliance matters directly to the Board of Directors or a Committee of the Board of
Directors of Lilly, and shall be authorized to report on such matters to the Board of
Directors or such Committee at any time. The Chief Compliance Officer shall not be, or
be subordinate to, the General Counsel or Chief Financial Officer. The Chief Compliance
Officer shall be responsible for monitoring the day-to-day compliance activities engaged
in by Lilly as well as for any reporting obligations created under this CIA.

Lilly shall report to OIG, in writing, any changes in the identity or position description of
the Chief Compliance Officer, or any actions or changes that would affect the Chief Compliance
Officer s ability to perform the duties necessary to meet the obligations in this CIA, within 15
days after such a change.

2.  Compliance Committee.  Prior to the Effective Date, Lilly established a
Compliance Committee, and Lilly shall maintain a Compliance Committee during the
term of this CIA. The Compliance Committee shall, at a minimum, include the Chief

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

4 

Compliance Officer and other members of senior management necessary to meet the requirements of
this CIA ( e.g. , senior executives of relevant departments, such as Legal, Human Resources, Lilly
Research Laboratories, Corporate Affairs, Global Marketing and Sales, Regulatory, Account Based
Markets-Lilly USA, Marketing and Operations   Lilly USA, and Health Care Professional Markets  
Lilly USA). The Chief Compliance Officer shall chair the Compliance Committee and the Compliance
Committee shall support the Chief Compliance Officer in fulfilling his/her responsibilities under
the CIA ( e.g. , shall assist in the analysis of the organization s risk areas and shall oversee
monitoring of internal and external audits and investigations).

Lilly shall report to OIG, in writing, any changes in the composition of the Compliance
Committee, or any actions or changes that would affect the Compliance Committee s ability to
perform the duties necessary to meet the obligations in this CIA, within 15 days after such a
change.

3.  Board of Directors Compliance Obligations.  A Committee of the Board of Directors
(Committee) shall be responsible for the review and oversight of matters related to compliance with
Federal health care program requirements, FDA requirements, and the obligations of this CIA. The
Committee shall, at a minimum, be responsible for the following:

a. The Committee shall meet at least quarterly to review and
oversee Lilly s Compliance Program, including but not limited to evaluating its
effectiveness and receiving updates about the activities of the Chief Compliance Officer
and other compliance personnel.

b. The Committee shall consist of at least three members, all of
whom shall be independent directors. The Chief Compliance Officer is required to make
at least four reports a year to the Committee or more often, if requested by the Committee
or the Chief Compliance Officer.

c. The Committee shall arrange for the performance of a review
on the effectiveness of Lilly s Compliance Program (Compliance Program Review) for
each Reporting Period of the CIA and shall review the results of the Compliance Program
Review as part of the review and assessment of Lilly s Compliance Program. A copy of
the Compliance Program Review Report shall be provided to OIG in each Annual Report
submitted by Lilly.

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

5 

d. For each Reporting Period of the CIA, the Committee shall
adopt a resolution, signed by each individual member of the Committee, summarizing its review and
oversight of Lilly s compliance with Federal health care program requirements, FDA requirements,
and the obligations of this CIA.

At minimum, the resolution shall include the following language:

The   insert name of Committee   Committee of the Board of Directors has made a reasonable
inquiry into the operations of Lilly s Compliance Program, including but not limited to evaluating
its effectiveness and receiving updates about the activities of its Chief Compliance Officer and
other compliance personnel. The Board also has arranged for the performance of, and reviewed the
result of, the Compliance Program Review. Based on its inquiry, the Committee has concluded that,
to the best of its knowledge, Lilly has implemented an effective Compliance Program to meet Federal
health care program requirements, FDA requirements, and the obligations of the CIA. 

If the Committee is unable to provide such a conclusion in the resolution, the Committee shall
include in the resolution a written explanation of the reasons why it is unable to provide the
conclusion and the steps it is taking to assure implementation by Lilly of an effective Compliance
Program at Lilly.

Lilly shall report to OIG, in writing, any changes in the composition of the Committee, or any
actions or changes that would affect the Committee s ability to perform the duties necessary to
meet the obligations in this CIA, within 15 days after such a change.

The Board of Directors may by resolution reserve to itself the powers and responsibilities
assigned to the Committee under this CIA. In that event, all references in this CIA to the
Committee shall be deemed to be references to the Board of Directors.

4.  Management Accountability and Certifications:  In addition to the responsibilities set
forth in this CIA for all Covered Persons, certain Lilly employees ( Certifying Employees ) are
specifically expected to monitor and oversee activities within their areas of authority and shall
annually certify, in writing or electronically, that the applicable Lilly component is compliant
with Federal health care program requirements, FDA requirements, and the obligations of this CIA.
These Certifying Employees shall include, at a minimum, the following individuals from Lilly:
President and Chief Executive Officer; and Executive Vice President, Global Marketing and Sales.

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

6 

They also shall include, at minimum, the following individuals from Lilly USA: President, U.S.
Operations; Senior Vice President, Account-Based Markets; Senior Vice President, Health Care
Professional Markets; Vice President, Chief Marketing and Operations Officer; and all national and
executive sales directors, brand leaders, and business unit leaders in the HCP Markets, executive
directors and directors in Account-Based Markets, and executive directors and directors in
Marketing and Operations.

For each Reporting Period, each Certifying Employee shall sign a certification that states:

I have been trained on and understand the compliance requirements and responsibilities
as they relate to  department or functional area , an area under my supervision. My job
responsibilities include ensuring compliance with regard to the
                      
 insert name of the department or functional area.  To the best of my knowledge,
except as otherwise described herein, the                       
 insert name of department or functional
area  of Lilly is in compliance with all applicable Federal health care program
requirements, FDA requirements, and the obligations of the CIA. 

B.  Written Standards. 

1.  Code of Conduct.  Prior to the Effective Date, Lilly developed, implemented, and distributed
a written Code of Conduct (known as  The Red Book ) to all Covered Persons. Lilly currently
requires all newly employed Covered Persons to certify in writing or electronically, that they have
received, read, understood, and shall abide by Lilly s Code of Conduct. Lilly shall continue to
make the promotion of, and adherence to, the Code of Conduct an element in evaluating the
performance of all Covered Persons.

The Code of Conduct sets forth and shall continue to set forth, at a minimum, the
following:

a. Lilly s commitment to full compliance with all Federal health care
program and FDA requirements, including its commitment to market, sell,
promote, research, develop, provide information about, and advertise its
products in accordance with Federal health program requirements and FDA
requirements;

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

7 

b. Lilly s requirement that all of its Covered Persons shall be
expected to comply with all Federal health care program and FDA
requirements and with Lilly s own Policies and Procedures as
implemented pursuant to Section III.B (including the requirements of
this CIA);

c. the requirement that all of Lilly s Covered Persons shall be
expected to report to the Chief Compliance Officer, or other
appropriate individual designated by Lilly, suspected violations of
any Federal health care program and FDA requirements or of Lilly s
own Policies and Procedures;

d. the possible consequences to both Lilly and Covered Persons of
failure to comply with Federal health care program and FDA
requirements and with Lilly s own Policies and Procedures and the
failure to report such noncompliance; and

e. the right of all individuals to use the Disclosure Program described
in Section III.E, and Lilly s commitment to nonretaliation and to
maintain, as appropriate, confidentiality and anonymity with respect
to such disclosures.

To the extent not already accomplished, within 120 days after the Effective Date, the Code of
Conduct shall be distributed to each Covered Person and each Covered Person shall certify, in
writing or electronically, that he or she has received, read, understood, and shall abide by
Lilly s Code of Conduct. New Covered Persons shall receive the Code of Conduct and shall complete
the required certification within 30 days after becoming a Covered Person or within 120 days after
the Effective Date, whichever is later.

Lilly shall periodically review the Code of Conduct to determine if revisions are
appropriate and shall make any necessary revisions based on such review. Any revised Code of
Conduct shall be distributed within 30 days after any revisions are finalized by the Compliance
Office. Each Covered Person shall certify, in writing or electronically, that he or she has
received, read, understood, and shall abide by the revised Code of Conduct within 30 days after
the distribution of the revised Code of Conduct.

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

8 

2.  Third Party Personnel.  Within 90 days after the Effective Date, and
annually thereafter by the anniversary of the Effective Date, Lilly shall send a letter to
each entity employing Third Party Personnel. The letter shall outline Lilly s obligations
under the CIA and its commitment to full compliance with all Federal health care
program and FDA requirements. The letter shall include a description of Lilly s
Compliance Program. Lilly shall attach a copy of its Code of Conduct to the letter and
shall request the entity employing Third Party Personnel to either: (a) make a copy of
Lilly s Code of Conduct and a description of Lilly s Compliance Program available to its
Third Party Personnel; or (b) represent to Lilly that it has and enforces a substantially
comparable code of conduct and compliance program for its Third Party Personnel.

3.  Policies and Procedures.  Prior to the Effective Date, Lilly implemented
written Policies and Procedures regarding the operation of the Compliance Program and
Lilly s compliance with Federal health care program and FDA requirements (Policies and
Procedures). To the extent not already accomplished, within 90 days after the Effective
Date, Lilly shall ensure that the Policies and Procedures address or shall continue to
address:

a. 
       
     the subjects relating to the Code of Conduct
identified in Section
III.B.1; 

b. 
       
     appropriate ways to conduct Promotional and
Product Services
Related Functions in compliance with all applicable Federal
healthcare program requirements, including, but not limited to the
Federal anti-kickback statute (codified at 42 U.S.C.   1320a-7b),
and the False Claims Act (codified at 31 U.S.C.    3729-3733); 

c. 
       
     appropriate ways to conduct Promotional and
Product Services
Related Functions in compliance with all applicable FDA 
requirements; 

d. 
       
     the materials and information that may be
distributed by Lilly
sales representatives and account executives about Lilly s
Government Reimbursed Products and the manner in which Lilly
sales representatives and account executives respond to requests
for information about non-FDA approved (or  off-label ) uses of
Lilly s Government Reimbursed Products; 

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

9 

e. 
       
     the materials and information that may be distributed by the Lilly
Answers Center (TLAC) and the mechanisms through, and
manner in which, TLAC receives and responds to requests for
information submitted by sales representatives and account
executives about non-FDA approved ( off-label ) uses of Lilly s
Government Reimbursed Products; the form and content of
information disseminated by Lilly in response to such requests;
and the internal review process for the information disseminated. 

The Policies and Procedures shall include a requirement that TLAC develop
database(s) to track requests for information about Lilly s products that
are submitted by Lilly s sales representatives and account executives, or
by members of the public, to TLAC. This database shall be referred to as
the  TLAC Database.  The TLAC Database shall include the following items
of information for each unique inquiry (Inquiry) received for information
about Lilly s products: 1) date of Inquiry; 2) form of Inquiry (e.g.,
fax, phone, etc.); 3) name of the requesting health care professional
(HCP) or health care institution (HCI) in accordance with applicable
privacy laws; 4) nature and topic of request (including exact language of
the Inquiry if made in writing); 5) nature/form of the response from
Lilly (including a record of the materials provided to the HCP or HCI in
response to the request); and 6) the name of the Lilly representative who
called on or interacted with the HCP or HCI, if known; 

f. 
       
     systems, processes, policies, and procedures
relating to the
manner and circumstances under which Medical Liaisons and
Outcomes Liaisons participate in meetings or events with HCPs
or HCIs (either alone or with sales representatives or account
executives) and the role of the Medical Liaisons and Outcomes
Liaisons at such meetings or events, as well as how they handle
responses to unsolicited requests about off-label indications of
Lilly s Government Reimbursed Products; 

g. 
       
     systems, processes, policies, and procedures
relating to the
development, implementation, and review of call plans using 

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

10 

Lilly s Territory to Physician (TTP) business rules for field sales
representatives who promote Government Reimbursed Products. For each
Government Reimbursed Product, the Policies and Procedures shall require
that Lilly review the call plans for the product and the bases upon, and
circumstances under, which HCPs and HCIs belonging to specified medical
specialties or types of clinical practice are included in, or excluded
from, the call plans. The Policies and Procedures shall also require that
Lilly modify the call plans as necessary to ensure that Lilly is
promoting its Government Reimbursed Products in a manner that complies
with all applicable Federal health care program and FDA requirements. The
call plan reviews shall occur at least annually and shall also occur each
time when the FDA approves a new or additional indication for a
Government Reimbursed Product;

h. 
       
     systems, processes, policies, and procedures
relating to the development, implementation, and review of plans for the
distribution of samples of Lilly s Government Reimbursed Products
(Sample Distribution Plans). This shall include a review of the bases
upon, and circumstances under, which HCPs and HCIs belonging to
specified medical specialties or types of clinical practice may receive
samples from Lilly (including, separately, from Lilly sales
representatives or account executives and/or directly from Lilly s
medical services department). The Policies and Procedures shall also
require that Lilly modify the Sample Distribution Plans as necessary to
ensure that Lilly is promoting its products in a manner that complies
with all applicable Federal health care program and FDA requirements; 

i. 
       
     consultant or other fee-for-service arrangements entered into with
HCPs or HCIs (including, but not limited to speaker programs,
speaker training programs, presentations, consultant task force
meetings, advisory boards, and ad hoc advisory activities, and any other
financial engagement or arrangement with an HCP or HCI,) and all events
and expenses relating to such engagements or arrangements. These
Policies and Procedures shall be designed to ensure that the
arrangements and related events are 

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

11 

used for legitimate and lawful purposes in accordance with applicable
Federal health care program and FDA requirements. The Policies shall
include requirements about the content and circumstances of such
arrangements and events;

j. 
       
     programs to educate field representatives,
including but not limited to presentations by HCPs at sales meetings and
experience-based learning activities. These Policies and Procedures
shall be designed to ensure that the programs are used for legitimate
and lawful purposes in accordance with applicable Federal health care
program and FDA requirements. The Policies shall include requirements
about the content and circumstances of such arrangements and events; 

k. 
       
     sponsorship or funding of grants (including
educational grants) or charitable contributions. These Policies and
Procedures shall be designed to ensure that Lilly s funding and/or
sponsorship complies with all applicable Federal health care program and
FDA requirements; 

l. 
       
     funding of, or participation in, any Third
Party Educational Activity as defined in Section II.C.5 above. These
Policies and Procedures shall be designed to ensure that Lilly s
funding and/or sponsorship of such programs satisfies all applicable
Federal health care program and FDA requirements. 

The Policies and Procedures shall require that: 1) Lilly disclose its
financial support of the Third Party Educational Activity and, to the
extent feasible consistent with subsection 5 below, any financial
relationships with faculty, speakers, or organizers at such Activity; 2)
as a condition of funding, the third party shall agree to disclose
Lilly s financial support of the Third Party Educational Activity and any
financial relationships that Lilly might have with faculty, speakers, or
organizers at such Activity; 3) any faculty, speakers, or organizers at
the Third Party Educational Activity disclose any financial relationship
with Lilly; 4) the Third Party Educational Activity have an educational
focus; 5) the content, organization, and operation of the Third

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

12 

Party Educational Activity be independent of Lilly control; 6) Lilly
support only Third Party Educational Activity that is non-promotional in
tone/nature; and 7) Lilly support of a Third Party Educational Activity
shall be contingent on the provider s commitment to provide information
at the Educational Activity that is fair, balanced, accurate and not
misleading;

m. 
       
     review of all promotional and written materials
and information intended to be disseminated outside Lilly by appropriate
qualified personnel (such as regulatory, medical, and/or legal
personnel) in a manner designed to ensure that legal, regulatory, and
medical concerns are properly addressed during Lilly s review and
approval process and are elevated when appropriate. The Policies and
Procedures shall be designed to ensure that such materials and
information, when finally approved, comply with all applicable Federal
health care program and FDA requirements; 

n. 
       
     sponsorship or funding of research or related
activities. These Policies and Procedures shall be designed to ensure
that Lilly s funding and/or sponsorship complies with all applicable
Federal health care program and FDA requirements; 

o. 
       
      compensation (including salaries and bonuses)
for Relevant Covered Persons. These Policies and Procedures shall be
designed to ensure that financial incentives do not inappropriately
motivate such individuals to engage in improper promotion, sales, and
marketing of Lilly s products; and 

p. 
       
     disciplinary policies and procedures for
violations of Lilly s Policies and Procedures, including policies
relating to Federal
health care program and FDA requirements. 

To the extent not already accomplished, within 120 days after the Effective Date, the relevant
portions of the Policies and Procedures shall be made available to all Covered Persons whose job
functions relate to those Policies and Procedures. Appropriate and knowledgeable staff shall be
available to explain the Policies and Procedures.

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

13 

At least annually (and more frequently, if appropriate), Lilly shall assess and update, as
necessary, the Policies and Procedures. Within 30 days after the effective date of any revisions,
the relevant portions of any such revised Policies and Procedures shall be made available to all
Covered Persons whose job functions relate to those Policies and Procedures.

C.  Training and Education .

Lilly represents that it provides training to its employees on a regular basis concerning a
variety of topics. The training covered by this CIA need not be separate and distinct from the
regular training provided by Lilly, but instead may be integrated fully into such regular training
so long as the training covers the areas specified below.

1.  General Training.  Within 120 days after the Effective Date, Lilly shall provide at least
two hours of General Training to each Covered Person. This training, at a minimum, shall explain
Lilly s:

a. CIA requirements; and

b. Lilly s Compliance Program (including the Code of Conduct and
the Policies and Procedures as they pertain to general compliance
issues).

To the extent that Lilly provided General Training to Covered Persons during the 180 days
immediately prior to the Effective Date that satisfied the requirements set forth in Section
III.C.1.b above, the OIG shall credit that training for purposes of satisfying Lilly s General
Training obligations of this Section III.C.1 for the first Reporting Period. Lilly may satisfy its
remaining General Training obligations for the Covered Persons who received the training described
in the preceding sentence by notifying them within 90 days after the Effective Date in writing or
in electronic format of the fact that Lilly entered a CIA and providing an explanation of Lilly s
requirements and obligations under
the CIA.

New Covered Persons shall receive the General Training described above within 30 days after
becoming a Covered Person or within 120 days after the Effective Date, whichever is later. After
receiving the initial General Training described above, each Covered Person shall receive at least
one hour of General Training in each subsequent Reporting Period.

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

14 

2.  Specific Training.  Within 120 days after the Effective Date, each Relevant Covered Person
shall receive at least three hours of Specific Training applicable to their specific job functions
in addition to the General Training required above.

This Specific Training shall include a discussion of:

a. 
       
     all applicable Federal health care program
requirements relating
to Promotional and Product Services Related Functions; 

b. 
       
     all applicable FDA requirements relating
to Promotional and
Product Services Related Functions; 

c. 
       
     all Lilly Policies and Procedures
and other requirements
applicable to Promotional and Product Services Related 
Functions; 

d. 
       
     the personal obligation of each individual
involved in
Promotional and Product Services Related Functions to comply
with all applicable Federal health care program and FDA
requirements and all other applicable legal requirements; 

e. 
       
     the legal sanctions for violations of the
applicable Federal health
care program and FDA requirements; and 

f. 
       
     examples of proper and improper practices
related to Promotional
and Product Services Related Functions. 

To the extent that Lilly provided Specific Training to Relevant Covered Persons during the 180
days immediately prior to the Effective Date that satisfied the requirements set forth in this
Section III.C.2 above, the OIG shall credit that training for purposes of satisfying Lilly s
Specific Training obligations of this Section III.C.2 for the first Reporting Period.

New Relevant Covered Persons shall receive this training within 30 days after the beginning of
their employment or becoming Relevant Covered Persons, or within 120 days after the Effective Date,
whichever is later. A Lilly employee who has completed the Specific Training shall review or
supervise (as applicable) a new Relevant Covered

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

15 

Person s work, to the extent that the work relates to Promotional and Product Services Related
Functions, until such time as the new Relevant Covered Person completes his or her Specific
Training.

After receiving the initial Specific Training described in this Section, each Relevant Covered
Person shall receive at least three hours of Specific Training in each subsequent Reporting Period.

3.  Certification.  Each individual who is required to complete training shall
certify, in writing or electronically, if applicable, that he or she has received the required
training. The certification shall specify the type of training received and the date
received. The Chief Compliance Officer (or designee) shall retain the certifications,
along with all course materials. These shall be made available to OIG, upon request.

4.  Qualifications of Trainer.  Persons providing the training shall be
knowledgeable about the subject area of the training, including applicable Federal health
care program and FDA requirements. The training and education required under this
Section III.C may be provided by supervisory employees, knowledgeable staff, Lilly
trainers, and/or outside consultant trainers selected by Lilly, or may be satisfied by
relevant continuing education programs provided they cover the topics outlined above in
Section III.C.2.

5.  Update of Training.  Lilly shall review the training annually, and, where
appropriate, update the training to reflect changes in Federal health care program
requirements, FDA requirements, any issues discovered during any internal audits or any
IRO Review, and any other relevant information.

6.  Computer-based Training.  Lilly may provide the training required
under this CIA through appropriate computer-based training approaches. If Lilly chooses
to provide computer-based training, it shall make available appropriately qualified and
knowledgeable staff or trainers to answer questions or provide additional information to
the Covered Persons receiving such training. In addition, if Lilly chooses to provide
computer-based General or Specific Training, all applicable requirements to provide a
number of  hours  of training in this Section III.C may be met with respect to computer-based training by providing the required number of  normative  hours as that term is used
in the computer-based training industry.

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

16 

D.  Review Procedures .

1.  General Description. 

a.  Engagement of Independent Review Organization.  Within 90 days
after the Effective Date, Lilly shall engage an entity (or entities),
such as an accounting, auditing, or consulting firm (hereinafter
 Independent Review Organization  or  IRO ), to perform reviews
to assist Lilly in assessing and evaluating its Promotional and
Product Services Related Functions. The applicable requirements
relating to the IRO are outlined in Appendix A to this CIA, which is
incorporated by reference.

Each IRO engaged by Lilly shall have expertise in applicable Federal health
care program and FDA requirements as may be appropriate to the Review for
which the IRO is retained. Each IRO shall assess, along with Lilly, whether
it can perform the engagement in a professionally independent and objective
fashion, as appropriate to the nature of the review, taking into account any
other business relationships or other engagements that may exist.

The IRO(s) shall conduct reviews that assess Lilly s systems, processes,
policies, procedures, and practices relating to Promotional and Product
Services Related Functions (Promotional and Product Services Reviews).

b.  Frequency and Brief Description of Reviews.  As set forth more
fully in Appendix B, the Promotional and Product Services Review
shall consist of two components   a Systems Review and a
Transactions Review. The Systems Review shall assess Lilly s
systems, processes, policies, and procedures relating to Promotional
and Product Services Related Functions. If there are no material
changes in Lilly s systems, processes, policies, and procedures
relating to Promotional and Product Services Related Functions, the
Promotional and Product Services Systems Review shall be performed for the
periods covering the first and fourth Reporting Periods. If Lilly materially
changes its systems, processes, policies, and procedures relating to
Promotional and Product Services Related Functions, the IRO shall perform a
Systems Review for the

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

17 

Reporting Period in which such changes were made in addition to
conducting the Systems Review for the first and fourth Reporting Periods.

The Promotional and Product Services Transactions Review shall be performed
annually and shall cover each of the five Reporting Periods. The IRO(s) shall
perform all components of each annual Transaction Review. As set forth more
fully in Appendix B, the Transactions Review shall include several
components, including a review relating to inquiries included in Lilly s TLAC
Database, a review of Lilly s Call Plan Assessments, a review of Sampling
Events, and a review of records relating to a sample of the Payments that are
reported by Lilly pursuant to Section III.M below. In addition, each
Transactions Review shall also include a review of up to three additional
areas or practices of Lilly identified by the OIG in its discretion
(hereafter  Additional Items .)

For purposes of identifying the Additional Items to be included in the
Transactions Review for a particular Reporting Period, the OIG will consult
with Lilly and may consider internal audit work conducted by Lilly and/or
the Lilly Compliance Monitoring Program, Lilly s Government Reimbursed
Product portfolio, the nature and scope of Lilly s promotional practices and
arrangements with HCPs and HCIs, and other information known to it.

As set forth more fully in Section III.E of Appendix B, Lilly may propose to
the OIG that its internal audit(s) be partially substituted for one or more
of the Additional Items that would otherwise be reviewed by the IRO as part
of the Transactions Review. The OIG retains sole discretion over whether,
and in what manner, to allow Lilly s internal audit work to be substituted
for a portion of the
Additional Items review conducted by the IRO.

The OIG shall notify Lilly of the nature and scope of the IRO review for
each of the Additional Items not later than 120 days prior to the end of
each Reporting Period. Prior to undertaking the review of the Additional
Items, the IRO and/or Lilly shall submit an audit work

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

18 

plan to the OIG for approval and the IRO shall conduct the review of the
Additional Items based on a work plan approved by the OIG.

c.  Retention of Records.  The IRO and Lilly shall retain and make available to
OIG, upon request, all work papers, supporting documentation, correspondence,
and draft reports (those exchanged between the IRO and Lilly) related to the
reviews.

2.  IRO Review Reports.  The IRO(s) shall prepare a report (or reports)
based upon each Review performed. The information and content to be included in the
report is described in Appendix B, which is incorporated by reference.

3.  Validation Review.  In the event OIG has reason to believe that: (a) any
IRO Review fails to conform to the requirements of this CIA; or (b) the IRO s findings or
Review results are inaccurate, OIG may, at its sole discretion, conduct its own review to
determine whether the applicable IRO Review complied with the requirements of the CIA
and/or the findings or Review results are inaccurate (Validation Review). Lilly shall pay
for the reasonable cost of any such review performed by OIG or any of its designated
agents. Any Validation Review of Reports submitted as part of Lilly s final Annual
Report shall be initiated no later than one year after Lilly s final submission (as described
in Section II) is received by OIG.

Prior to initiating a Validation Review, OIG shall notify Lilly of its intent to do so and
provide a written explanation of why OIG believes such a review is necessary. To resolve any
concerns raised by OIG, Lilly may request a meeting with OIG to: (a) discuss the results of any
Review submissions or findings; (b) present any additional information to clarify the results of
the applicable Review or to correct the inaccuracy of the Review; and/or (c) propose alternatives
to the proposed Validation Review. Lilly agrees to provide any additional information as may be
requested by OIG under this Section III.D.3 in an expedited manner. OIG will attempt in good faith
to resolve any Review issues with Lilly prior to conducting a Validation Review. However, the final
determination as to whether or not to proceed with a Validation Review shall be made at the sole
discretion of OIG.

4.  Independence and Objectivity Certification.  The IRO shall include in its
report(s) to Lilly a certification or sworn affidavit that it has evaluated its professional
independence and objectivity, as appropriate to the nature of the engagement, with regard

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

19 

to the applicable Review and that it has concluded that it is, in fact, independent and
objective.

E.  Disclosure Program. 

Lilly represents that it has a disclosure program designed to facilitate communications
relating to compliance with Federal health care program and FDA requirements and Lilly s policies
(the  Disclosure Program ). During the term of the CIA, Lilly shall maintain a Disclosure Program
that includes a mechanism (a toll-free compliance telephone line and/ or on-line electronic
reporting) to enable individuals to disclose, to the Chief Compliance Officer or some other person
who is not in the disclosing individual s chain of command, any identified issues or questions
associated with Lilly s policies, conduct, practices, or procedures with respect to a Federal
health care program or FDA requirement believed by the individual to be a potential violation of
criminal, civil, or administrative law. Lilly shall continue to appropriately publicize the
existence of the disclosure mechanism ( e.g. , via periodic e-mails to employees or by posting the
information in prominent common areas).

The Disclosure Program shall emphasize a nonretaliation policy, and shall include a reporting
mechanism for anonymous communications for which appropriate confidentiality shall be maintained.
Disclosures made by individuals residing outside the United States shall be in accordance with
applicable laws, including the European Union Data Protection Directive. Upon receipt of a
disclosure, the Chief Compliance Officer (or designee) shall gather all relevant information from
the disclosing individual. The Chief Compliance Officer (or designee) shall make a preliminary,
good faith inquiry into the allegations set forth in every disclosure to ensure that he or she has
obtained all of the information necessary to determine whether a further review should be
conducted. For any disclosure that is sufficiently specific so that it reasonably: (1) permits a
determination of the appropriateness of the alleged improper practice; and (2) provides an
opportunity for taking corrective action, Lilly shall conduct an internal review of the allegations
set forth in the disclosure and ensure that proper follow-up is conducted.

The Chief Compliance Officer (or designee) shall maintain a disclosure log, which shall
include a record and summary of each disclosure received (whether anonymous or not), the status of
the respective internal reviews, and any corrective action taken in response to the internal
reviews. The disclosure log shall be made available to OIG upon request.

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

20 

F.  Ineligible Persons .

1.  Definitions.  For purposes of this CIA:

a. an  Ineligible Person  shall include an individual or entity who:

i. is currently excluded, debarred, suspended, or otherwise
ineligible to participate in the Federal health care programs or in
Federal procurement or nonprocurement programs; or

ii. has been convicted of a criminal offense that falls within the
ambit of 42 U.S.C.   1320a-7(a), but has not yet been excluded,
debarred, suspended, or otherwise declared ineligible.

b.  Exclusion Lists  include:

i. the HHS/OIG List of Excluded Individuals/Entities (available
through the Internet at  http://www.oig.hhs.gov ); and

ii. the General Services Administration s List of Parties
Excluded from Federal Programs (available through the
Internet at  http://www. epls. gov ).

c.  Screened Persons  shall include all Covered Persons.

2.  Screening Requirements.  Lilly shall ensure that all Screened Persons are
not Ineligible Persons, by implementing the following screening requirements.

a. Lilly shall screen all Screened Persons against the Exclusion Lists
 prior to engaging their services and, as part of the hiring or contracting process, shall require such Screened Persons to disclose whether
they are Ineligible Persons.

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

21 

b. Lilly shall screen all Screened Persons against the Exclusion Lists
within 90 days after the Effective Date and on an annual basis
thereafter.

c. Lilly shall implement a policy requiring all Screened Persons to
disclose immediately any debarment, exclusion, suspension, or other
event that makes that person an Ineligible Person.

Nothing in this Section affects the responsibility of (or liability for) Lilly to (if
applicable) refrain from billing Federal health care programs for items or services furnished,
ordered, or prescribed by an Ineligible Person. Lilly understands that items or services furnished
by excluded persons are not payable by Federal health care programs and that Lilly may be liable
for overpayments (if applicable) and/or criminal, civil, and administrative sanctions for employing
or contracting with an excluded person regardless of whether Lilly meets the requirements of
Section III.F.

3.  Removal Requirement.  If Lilly has actual notice that a Screened Person
has become an Ineligible Person, Lilly shall remove such Screened Person from
responsibility for, or involvement with, Lilly s business operations related to the Federal
health care programs and shall remove such Screened Person from any position for which
the Screened Person s compensation or the items or services furnished, ordered, or
prescribed by the Screened Person are paid in whole or part, directly or indirectly, by
Federal health care programs or otherwise with Federal funds at least until such time as
the Screened Person is reinstated into participation in the Federal health care programs.

4.  Pending Charges and Proposed Exclusions.  If Lilly has actual notice
that a Screened Person is charged with a criminal offense that falls within the ambit of 42
U.S.C.    1320a-7(a), 1320a-7(b)(1)-(3), or is proposed for exclusion during the Screened
Person s employment or contract term, Lilly shall take all appropriate actions to ensure
that the responsibilities of that Screened Person have not and shall not adversely affect the
accuracy of any claims submitted to any Federal health care program.

G.  Notification
of Government Investigation or Legal Proceedings .

Within 30 days after discovery by senior management at U.S. corporate headquarters of Lilly or
Lilly USA, Lilly shall notify OIG, in writing, of any ongoing investigation or legal proceeding
known to Lilly conducted or brought by a governmental entity or its agents involving an allegation
that Lilly has committed a crime or has engaged in

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

22 

fraudulent activities. This notification shall include a description of the allegation, the
identity of the investigating or prosecuting agency, and the status of such investigation or legal
proceeding. Lilly shall also provide written notice to OIG within 30 days after the resolution of
the matter, and shall provide OIG with a description of the findings and/or results of the
investigation or proceedings, if any.

H.  Reporting .

1.  Reportable Events. 

a.  Definition of Reportable Event.  For purposes of this CIA, a
 Reportable Event  means anything that involves:

i. a matter that a reasonable person would consider a probable
violation of criminal, civil, or administrative laws applicable to
any Federal health care program and/or applicable to any FDA
requirements relating to the promotion of Lilly Government
Reimbursed Products for which penalties or exclusion may be
authorized; or

ii. the filing of a bankruptcy petition by Lilly.

A Reportable Event may be the result of an isolated event or a series of
occurrences.

b.  Reporting of Reportable Events.  If Lilly or Lilly USA determines
(after a reasonable opportunity to conduct an appropriate review or
investigation of the allegations) through any means that there is a
Reportable Event, Lilly shall notify OIG, in writing, within 30 days
after making the determination that the Reportable Event exists. The
report to OIG shall include the following information:

i. a complete description of the Reportable Event, including the relevant facts, persons involved, and legal and Federal health
care program and/or FDA authorities implicated;

ii. a description of Lilly s actions taken to correct the
Reportable Event; and

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

23 

iii. any further steps Lilly plans to take to address the
Reportable Event and prevent it from recurring.

iv. If the Reportable Event involves the filing of a bankruptcy
petition, the report to the OIG shall include documentation of the
filing and a description of any Federal health care program
authorities and/or FDA authorities implicated.

v. Lilly shall not be required to report as a Reportable Event any
matter previously disclosed under Section III.G.

I.  Notification of Communications with FDA .

Within 30 days after the date of any written report, correspondence, or communication between
Lilly and the FDA that materially discusses Lilly s or a Covered Person s actual or potential
unlawful or improper promotion of Lilly s products (including any improper dissemination of
information about off-label indications), Lilly shall provide a copy of the report, correspondence,
or communication to the OIG. Lilly shall also provide written notice to the OIG within 30 days
after the resolution of any such disclosed off-label matter, and shall provide the OIG with a
description of the findings and/or results of the matter, if any.

J.  Review of Records Reflecting the Content of Detailing Sessions .

For each Reporting Period, Lilly shall obtain non-Lilly records  (e.g.,  Verbatims, message
recall studies, or similar records) generated by an independent entity (Survey Entity) reflecting
the purported content and subject matter of detailing interactions between Lilly sales
representatives and HCPs for up to three Covered Products (as defined below). In order to satisfy
its obligations under this Section III.J, Lilly may propose that it obtain an alternative type of
survey record. The OIG will consider Lilly s proposal, and after considering Lilly s proposal
shall, in its discretion, identify the type of survey records to be obtained.

For each Covered Product, Lilly shall contract with the Survey Entity to conduct inquiries
into the content and subject matter of the detailing interactions. The OIG shall select and notify
the Survey Entity of a one week period within every other quarter of the Reporting Period for which
the surveys shall be conducted beginning in the second full

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

24 

quarter after the Effective Date. For each Covered Product, Lilly shall obtain records reflecting
the purported content and subject matter of detailing sessions during the identified week in all
regions across the United States.

Prior to the start of the second Reporting Period and every Reporting Period thereafter, based
on the information provided and other information known to it, and after consultation with Lilly,
the OIG shall select up to three Government Reimbursed Products to be the basis for the review
outlined in this Section III.J and shall notify Lilly of its selection. These identified products
shall be known as the  Covered Products.  The parties have already identified the Covered Products
for the first Reporting Period.

Lilly shall review the records obtained from the Survey Entity and shall identify any
instances in which the records appear to indicate that Covered Persons may have discussed and/or
disseminated information about off-label uses of the Covered Products. Lilly shall make findings
based on its review (Off-Label Findings) and shall take any responsive action it deems necessary.
If necessary for purposes of its review, Lilly shall endeavor to gather additional factual
information about the circumstances relating to any Off-Label Findings. As part of each Annual
Report, Lilly shall provide the OIG with copies of the underlying records of the detailing
interactions, a copy of Lilly s Off-Label Findings, and a description of the action(s), if any,
Lilly took in response to the Off-Label Findings.

K.  Field Force Monitoring and Review Efforts 

To the extent not already accomplished, within 120 days after the Effective Date, Lilly shall
establish a Field Force Monitoring Program (FFMP) to evaluate and monitor field sales force
representatives  interactions with HCPs. The FFMP shall be a formalized process designed to
directly observe the appropriateness of field sales force representative s interactions with HCPs
and to identify potential off-label promotional activities.

Under this program, Lilly compliance personnel or appropriately trained Lilly employees who
are not currently working in the marketing or the field sales organization shall conduct direct
field observations (Observations) of field sales force representatives to assess whether the
messages delivered and materials distributed to HCPs are consistent with Lilly s Policies and
Procedures. These Observations shall be full day ride-alongs with field sales representatives, and
each Observation shall consist of directly observing all meetings between a sales representative
and HCPs during the workday. The

Corporate Integrity 
Agreement Eli Lilly Company

25 

Observations shall be scheduled throughout the year, randomly selected by Lilly compliance
personnel, include each therapeutic area and actively promoted product, and be conducted across the
United States. At the completion of each Observation, Lilly compliance personnel or the designee
shall prepare a report which includes:

1) 
       
     the identity of the sales representative; 

2) 
       
     the identity of the Lilly compliance professional or
other Lilly employee; 

3) 
       
     the date and duration of the Observation; 

4) 
       
     the product(s) promoted during the Observation; 

5) 
       
     an overall assessment of compliance with Lilly policy; and 

6) 
       
     the identification of any potential off-label promotional
activity by the field sales representative. 

Lilly compliance personnel shall conduct at least 50 full-day Observations during each
Reporting Period. The number of inspections conducted for each therapeutic area and product shall
be proportional in number to the size of each therapeutic area and product, and shall be conducted
across the United States.

In the event that a compliance issue, including but not limited to a potential off-label
promotion or noncompliance with Lilly s compliance program or policies and procedures, is
identified during any Observation, Lilly shall investigate the incident consistent with established
Policies and Procedures for the handling of investigations. As part of the formal investigation
procedures, findings shall be made and all necessary and appropriate responsive action (including
disciplinary action) and corrective action shall be taken. The Compliance Officer shall disclose
Reportable Events pursuant to Section III.H above, if applicable. Any compliance issues identified
during an Observation and any corrective action shall be recorded in the files of the compliance
department.

Lilly shall include a summary of the FFMP and the results of the FFMP as part of each Annual
Report. As part of each Annual Report, Lilly also shall provide the OIG with copies of the
Observation report for any instances in which it was determined that improper promotion occurred
and a description of the action(s) that Lilly took as a result of such determinations. Lilly shall
make the Observation reports for all other Observations available to the OIG upon request.

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

26 

L.  Notice to Health Care Providers and Entities 

Within 90 days after the Effective Date, Lilly shall send, by first class mail, postage
prepaid and return receipt requested, a notice containing the language set forth below to all HCPs
and HCIs that Lilly currently details. This notice shall be dated and shall be signed by Lilly s
Chief Executive Officer. The body of the letter shall state the following:

As you may be aware, Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly) recently entered into a global civil,
criminal, and administrative settlement with the United States and individual states in
connection of its promotion of its drug Zyprexa.

This letter provides you with additional information about the settlement, explains Lilly s
commitments going forward, and provides you with access to information about those
commitments. In general terms, the Government alleged that Lilly unlawfully promoted the
drug Zyprexa for certain uses not approved by the Food   Drug Administration (FDA). To
resolve these matters, Lilly pled guilty to a misdemeanor criminal violation of the Federal
Food Drug and Cosmetic Act and agreed to pay more than $1 billion to the Federal Government
and state Medicaid programs. More information about this settlement may be found at the
following:   Lilly shall include a link to the USAO, OCL, and Eli Lilly websites in the
letter.  

As part of the federal settlement, Lilly also entered into a five-year corporate integrity
agreement with the Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services. The corporate integrity agreement is available at
 http://oig.hhs.gov/fraud/cia/index.html . Under this agreement, Lilly agreed to
undertake certain obligations designed to promote compliance with Federal healthcare
program and FDA requirements. We also agreed to notify healthcare providers about the
settlement and inform them that they can report any questionable practices by Lilly s
representatives to Lilly s Compliance Department or the FDA.

Please call or email Lilly at  1-800-TBD  or   Lilly shall insert website address in
the letter.   if you have questions about the settlement referenced above or to report any
instances in which you believe that a Lilly representative inappropriately promoted a
product or engaged in other questionable conduct. Alternatively, you may report any such
instances to the FDA s Division of Drug Marketing, Advertising, and Communications at
301-796-1200. You should direct medical questions or concerns about the products to The
Lilly Answer Center at  
1-800-Lilly-Rx.

Corporate Integrity Agreement Eli Lilly Company

27 

We appreciate your time and attention. We are dedicated to ensuring that we bring you the
scientific and medical information you need to make well-informed decisions about whether
Lilly products are right for your patients.

The Chief Compliance Officer (or a designee) shall maintain a log of all calls and messages
received in response to the notice. The log shall include a record and summary of each call and
message received (whether anonymous or not), the status of the call or message, and any corrective
action taken in response to the call or message. The disclosure log shall be made available to OIG
upon request. As part of the Implementation Report and each Annual Report, Lilly shall provide to
the OIG a summary of the calls and messages received.

M.  Reporting of Physician Payments 

1. Phase I Reporting

On or before August 1, 2009, Lilly shall post in a prominent position on its website an easily
accessible and readily searchable listing of all U.S.-based physicians and Related Entities (as
defined below in Section III.M.4) who or which received Phase I Payments (as defined below in
Section III.M.4) directly or indirectly from Lilly or Lilly USA during the first three months of
2009 and the aggregate value of such Payments.

After the initial posting, 30 days after the end of each subsequent calendar quarter, Lilly
shall also post on its website a listing of updated information about all Phase I Payments provided
during the applicable calendar year during the preceding quarter(s). On or before May 1, 2010,
Lilly shall also post on its website a report of the cumulative value of Phase I Payments provided
to each physician and/or Related Entity during the preceding calendar year. The quarterly and
annual reports shall be easily accessible and readily searchable.

Each
listing made pursuant to this Section III.M.1 or Sections III.M 2 or 3 below, shall
include a complete list of all individual physicians and Related Entities to whom or to which Lilly
or Lilly USA directly or indirectly made the Phase I, II, or III Payments (as applicable) in the
preceding calendar quarter or year (as applicable). Each listing shall be arranged alphabetically
according to the physicians  last name or the name of the Related

Corporate Integrity
Agreement 
 Eli Lilly Company

28 

Entity. The Payment amounts in the lists shall be reported in $10,000 increments (e.g., $0 -
$10,000; $10,001- $20,000; etc.) For each physician, the applicable listing shall include the
following information: i) physician s full name; ii) name of Related Entity (if applicable); iii)
city and state that the physician or the Related Entity has provided to Lilly for contact purposes;
and (iv) the aggregate value of the payment(s) in the preceding quarter(s) or year (as applicable).
If payments for multiple physicians have been made to one Related Entity, the aggregate value of
all payments to the Related Entity will be the reported amount.

2. Phase II Reporting

On or before August 1, 2010, Lilly shall post in a prominent position on its website an easily
accessible and readily searchable listing of all U.S.-based physicians and Related Entities (as
defined below in Section III.M.4) who provided or which received Phase II Payments (as defined
below in Section III.M.4) directly or indirectly from Lilly or Lilly USA during the first three
months of 2010 and the aggregate value of such Payments.

After the initial posting, 30 days after the end of each subsequent calendar quarter, Lilly
shall also post on its website a listing of updated information about all Phase II Payments
provided during the applicable calendar year during the preceding quarter(s). On or before May 1,
2011, Lilly shall also post on its website a report of the cumulative value of Phase II Payments
provided to each physician and/or Related Entity during the preceding calendar year. The quarterly
and annual reports shall be easily accessible and readily searchable.

3. Phase III Reporting

On or before August 1, 2011, Lilly shall post in a prominent position on its website an easily
accessible and readily searchable listing of all U.S.-based physicians and Related Entities (as
defined below in Section III.M.4) who or which received Phase III Payments (as defined below in
Section III.M.4) directly or indirectly from Lilly or Lilly USA during the first three months of
2011 and the aggregate value of such Payments.

After the initial posting, 30 days after the end of each subsequent calendar quarter, Lilly
shall also post on its website a listing of updated information about all Phase III Payments
provided during the applicable calendar year during the preceding quarter(s). On or before May 1,
2012, Lilly shall also post on its website a report of the cumulative

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

29 

value of Phase III Payments provided to each physician and/or Related Entity during the preceding
calendar year. Thereafter, on or before May 1 of each subsequent year, Lilly shall post a report of
the cumulative value of Payments provided to each physician and/or Related Entity during the
preceding calendar year. The quarterly and annual reports shall be easily accessible and readily
searchable.

4. Definitions and Miscellaneous Provisions

Lilly shall continue to make each annual listing and the most recent quarterly listing of
Phase I, Phase II, and Phase III Reporting available on its website at least throughout the term of
this CIA. Lilly shall retain and make available to OIG, upon request, all work papers, supporting
documentation, correspondence, and records related to all applicable Payments and to the annual and
quarterly listings of Payments. Nothing in this Section III.M affects the responsibility of Lilly
to comply with (or liability for noncompliance with) all applicable Federal health care program
requirements and state laws as they relate to all applicable Payments made to physicians or Related
Entities.

If the proposed Physician Payments Sunshine Act of 2008 or similar legislation is enacted, the
OIG shall determine whether the purposes of this Section III.M are reasonably satisfied by Lilly s
compliance with such legislation. In such case, and in its sole discretion, the OIG may agree to
modify or terminate provisions of Section III.M as appropriate.

For purposes of this Section III.M, the term  Phase I Payments  is defined as all honoraria
payments made in connection with physicians serving as speakers, participating in speaker training,
or serving as consultants (including participating in advisory boards, providing training to Lilly
employees, or providing ad hoc advising.)

For purposes of this Section III.M, the term  Phase II Payments  is defined as all payments
(including, for example, honoraria payments, other payments, and reimbursement for lodging, travel
and other expenses) made in connection with physicians serving as speakers, participating in
speaker training, or serving as consultants (including participating in advisory boards, providing
training to Lilly employees, or providing ad hoc advising).

For purposes of this Section III.M, the term  Phase III Payments  is defined to include all
payments or transfers of value (whether in cash or in kind) made to physicians. The term also
includes all payments or transfers of value made to Related Entities on

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

30 

behalf of, at the request of, for the benefit or use of, or under the name of a physician for whom
Lilly would otherwise report a Payment if made directly to the physician. Phase III Payments
includes all Phase I and Phase II Payments. Phase III Payments include, for example, payments or
compensation for services rendered; grants; fees; and payments relating to research or education.
The term Phase III Payments also includes payment or reimbursement for food, entertainment, gifts,
trips or travel, product(s)/item(s) provided for less than fair market value, or other economic
benefit paid or transferred. Phase III Payments do not include: i) samples of drug products that
meet the definition set forth in 21 C.F.R.   203.3(i), or ii) discounts, rebates, or other pricing
terms.

For purposes of this Section III.M, the term  Related Entity  is defined to be any entity by
or in which any physician receiving Phase I, II, or III Payments is employed, has tenure, or has an
ownership interest.

IV.     Changes to Business Units or Locations   

A.  Change or Closure of Unit or Location . In the event that, after the Effective
Date, Lilly or Lilly USA changes locations or closes a business unit or location related to
Promotional and Product Services Related Functions, Lilly shall notify OIG of this fact as
soon as possible, but no later than within 30 days after the date of change or closure of the
location.

B.  Purchase or Establishment of New Unit or Location . In the event that, after the
Effective Date, Lilly or Lilly USA purchases or establishes a new business unit or
location related to Promotional and Product Services Related Functions, Lilly shall notify
OIG no later than the date that the purchase or establishment is publicly disclosed by
Lilly. This notification shall include the address of the new business unit or location,
phone number, fax number, Federal health care program provider or supplier number (if
applicable), and the name and address of the contractor that issued each number (if
applicable). Each new business unit or location and all Covered Persons at each new
business unit or location shall be subject to the applicable requirements of this CIA.

C.  Sale of Unit or Location . In the event that, after the Effective Date,
Lilly or Lilly USA proposes to sell any or all of its business units or locations related to the
Promotional and Product Services-Related Functions that are subject to this CIA, Lilly shall notify
OIG of the proposed sale no later than the date the sale is publicly disclosed by Lilly. This
notification shall include a description of the business unit or location to be sold, a brief
description of the terms of the sale, and the name and contact information of

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

31 

the prospective purchaser. This CIA shall be binding on the purchaser of such business unit or
location, unless otherwise determined and agreed to in writing by the OIG.

V.     Implementation and Annual Reports   

A.  Implementation Report . Within 150 days after the Effective Date, Lilly shall submit
a written report to OIG summarizing the status of its implementation of the requirements of this
CIA (Implementation Report). The Implementation Report shall, at a minimum, include:

1. the name, address, phone number, and position description of the
Compliance Officer required by Section III.A.1, and a summary of other noncompliance
job responsibilities the Compliance Officer may have;

2. the names and positions of the members of the Compliance Committee
required by Section III.A.2;

3. the names of the members of the Committee of the Board referenced in
Section III.A.3;

4. the names and positions of the Certifying Employees required by Section
III.A.4;

5. a copy of Lilly s Code of Conduct required by Section III.B.1;

6. the number of Covered Persons required to complete the Code of
Conduct certification required by Section III.B.1, the percentage of Covered Persons who
have completed such certification, and an explanation of any exceptions (the
documentation supporting this information shall be available to OIG, upon request);

7. (a) a copy of the letter (including all attachments) required by Sections
II.C.6 and III.B.2 sent to each party employing Third Party Personnel; (b) a list of all such
existing agreements; and (c) a description of the entities  response to Lilly s letter;

8. to the extent not already provided to the OIG, a copy of all Policies and
Procedures required by Section III.B.3;

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

32 

9. the following information regarding each type of training required by Section III.C:

a. a description of such training, including a summary of the topics
covered, the length of sessions, and a schedule of training sessions;
and

b. the number of Covered Persons required to be trained, percentage
of Covered Persons actually trained, and an explanation of any
exceptions.

A copy of all training materials and the documentation supporting this information shall be
available to OIG, upon request;

10. the following information regarding the IRO(s): (a) identity, address,
and phone number; (b) a copy of the engagement letter; and (c) a summary and
description of any and all current and prior engagements and agreements between Lilly
and the IRO;

11. a certification from the IRO regarding its professional independence
and objectivity with respect to Lilly;

12. a description of the Disclosure Program required by Section III.E;

13. a description of the process by which Lilly fulfills the requirements of
Section III.F regarding Ineligible Persons;

14. the name, title, and responsibilities of any person who is determined to
be an Ineligible Person under Section III.F; the actions taken in response to the screening
and removal obligations set forth in Section III.F;

15. a certification by the Chief Compliance Officer that the notice required
by  Section III.L was mailed to each HCP and HCI, the number of HCPs and HCIs that
received a copy of the notice, a sample copy of the notice required by Section III.L, and a
summary of the calls or messages received in response to the notice;

Corporate Integrity Agreement  

Eli Lilly Company

33 

16. a certification from the Chief Compliance Officer that, if required
under Section III.M and to the best of his/her knowledge, information regarding Payments
has been posted on Lilly s website as required by Section III.M;

17. a list of all of Lilly s U.S. locations (including locations and mailing
addresses) at which it performs Promotional and Product Services Related Functions; the
corresponding name under which each location is doing business; the corresponding
phone numbers and fax numbers; each location s Federal health care program provider or
supplier number(s) (if applicable), and the name and address of each Federal health care
program contractor to which Lilly currently submits claims (if applicable);

18. a description of Lilly s corporate structure, including identification of
any parent and sister companies, subsidiaries, and their respective lines of business; and

19. the certifications required by Section V.C.

B.  Annual Reports . Lilly shall submit to OIG annually a report with respect to the
status of, and findings regarding, Lilly s compliance activities for each of the five Reporting
Periods (Annual Report).

Each Annual Report shall include, at a minimum:

1. an explanation of any change in the identity, position description, or
other noncompliance job responsibilities of the Chief Compliance Officer and any change
in the membership of the Compliance Committee, the compliance Committee of the
Board of Directors, or the group of Certifying Employees described in Sections III.A.2-4,
and a copy of the Compliance Program Review Report described in Section III.A.3;

2. a summary of any significant changes or amendments to the Policies and
Procedures required by Section III.B and the reasons for such changes ( e.g. , change in
applicable requirements);

3. the number of Covered
Persons required to complete the Code of Conduct certification required by Section III.B.1, the percentage of Covered Persons who have
completed such certification, and an explanation of any exceptions (the documentation supporting
this information shall be available to OIG, upon request);

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

34 

4. (a) a copy of the letter (including all attachments) required by Sections II.C.6 and
III.B.2 sent to each entity employing Third Party Personnel; (b) a list of all
such existing agreements; and (c) a description of the entities  response to Lilly s letter;

5.
the following information regarding each type of training required by
Section III.C:

a. a description of such training, including a summary of the topics
covered, the length of sessions, and a schedule of training sessions; and

b. the number of Covered Persons required to be trained, percentage of
Covered Persons actually trained, and an explanation of any exceptions.

A copy of all training materials and the documentation supporting this information shall be
available to OIG, upon request.

6.
a complete copy of all reports prepared pursuant to Section III.D, along
with a copy of the IRO s engagement letter (if applicable);

7.
Lilly s response and corrective action plan(s) related to any issues raised by the reports
prepared pursuant to Section III.D;

8. a summary and description of any and all current and prior engagements and agreements
between Lilly and the IRO, if different from what was submitted as part of the Implementation
Report;

9. a certification from the IRO regarding its professional independence and objectivity with
respect to Lilly;

10.
a summary of the disclosures in the disclosure log required by
Section III.E that relate to Federal health care programs;

11.
any changes to the process by which Lilly fulfills the requirements
of Section III.F regarding Ineligible Persons;

12. the name, title, and responsibilities of any person who is determined to

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

35 

be an Ineligible Person under Section III.F; the actions taken by Lilly in response to the
screening and removal obligations set forth in Section III.F;

13. a summary describing any ongoing investigation or legal proceeding required to have
been reported pursuant to Section III.G. The summary shall include a
 description of the allegation, the identity of the investigating or prosecuting agency, and
 the status of such investigation or legal proceeding;

14.
a summary of Reportable Events (as defined in Section III.H) identified during the
Reporting Period and the status of any corrective and preventative action relating to all such
Reportable Events;

15. a summary describing any written communication with the FDA required to have been reported pursuant to Section III.I. This summary shall include a description of the matter and the
status of the matter;

16. all information required by Section III.J;

17. all information required by Section III.K;

18. a summary of the calls and messages received in response to the notice required
by Section III.L and the disposition of those calls and messages

19. a description of all changes to the most recently provided list of Lilly s
locations (including addresses) as required by Section  V.A.17;  the
corresponding name under which each location is doing business; the
corresponding phone numbers and fax numbers; each location s Federal health
care program provider or supplier number(s) (if applicable), and the name and
address of each Federal health care program contractor to which Lilly currently
submits claims (if applicable); and

20. the certifications required by Section V.C.

The first Annual Report shall be received by OIG no later than 60 days after the end of the
first Reporting Period. Subsequent Annual Reports shall be received by OIG
no later than the anniversary date of the due date of the first Annual Report.

Corporate
Integrity Agreement Eli Lilly Company

36 

C.  Certifications . The following certifications shall be included in the
Implementation Report and Annual Reports:

1.
 Certifying Employees : In each Annual Report, Lilly shall include the certifications of
Certifying Employees as required by Section III.A.4;

2.
 Chief Compliance Officer : In the Implementation Report and Annual
Reports, Lilly shall include the following individual certification by the Chief Compliance Officer:

a. he or she has reviewed the Report and has made reasonable inquiry regarding its content
and believes that the information in the Report is accurate and truthful;

b. to the best of his or her knowledge, except as otherwise described in the applicable
report, Lilly is in compliance with the Federal health care program and FDA requirements and the obligations of the CIA;

c. to the best of his or her knowledge, Lilly has complied with its obligations under the
Settlement Agreement: (a) not to resubmit to any Federal health care program payors any previously
denied claims related to the Covered Conduct addressed in the Settlement Agreement, and not to
appeal any such denials of claims; (b) not to charge to or otherwise seek payment from federal or
state payors for unallowable costs (as defined in the Settlement Agreement); and (c) to identify
and adjust any past charges or claims for unallowable costs;

d. Lilly s: 1) Policies and Procedures as referenced in Section
III.B.3 above; 2) templates for standardized contracts and other similar documents; and 3) the
training materials used for purposes of Section III.C all have been reviewed by
competent legal counsel and/or legal personnel working at their direction and have been found to
be in compliance with all applicable Federal health care program and FDA
requirements. In addition, Lilly s promotional materials containing claims or information
about Government Reimbursed Products and other materials and information intended to be
disseminated outside Lilly have been reviewed by competent regulatory, medical, and/or legal
personnel in accordance with applicable Policies and Procedures to ensure that legal, medical, and
regulatory concerns are properly addressed and are elevated when
appropriate, and that the materials and information when finally approved are in
compliance with all applicable Federal health care program and FDA requirements. If the

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

37 

applicable legal requirements have not changed, after the initial review of the documents
listed above, only material changes to the documents must be reviewed by competent regulatory,
medical, and/or legal personnel. The certification shall include a description of the document(s)
reviewed and approximately when the review was completed. The documentation supporting this
certification shall be available to OIG, upon request; and

e. Lilly s call plans for Government Reimbursed Products were reviewed at least once during the
Reporting Period (consistent with Section III.B.3.g) and, for each product the call plans were
found to be consistent with Lilly s policy objectives as referenced above in Section III.B.3.g.

D.  Designation of Information . Lilly shall clearly identify any portions of its submissions
that it believes are trade secrets, or information that is commercial or financial and privileged
or confidential, and therefore potentially exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information
Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C.   552. Lilly shall refrain from identifying any information as exempt from
disclosure if that information does not meet the criteria for exemption from disclosure under FOIA.

VI.
    Notifications and
Submission of Reports   

Unless otherwise stated in writing after the Effective Date, all notifications and reports
required under this CIA shall be submitted to the following entities:

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

38 

Unless otherwise specified, all notifications and reports required by this CIA may be made by
certified mail, overnight mail, hand delivery, or other means, provided that there
is proof that such notification was received. For purposes of this requirement, internal
facsimile confirmation sheets do not constitute proof of receipt. Upon request by OIG,
Lilly may be required to provide OIG with an electronic copy of each notification or report
required by this CIA in searchable portable document format (pdf), either instead of or in
addition to, a paper copy.

VII.
    OIG Inspection,
Audit, and Review Rights   

In addition to any other rights OIG may have by statute, regulation, or contract,
OIG or its duly authorized representative(s) may examine or request
copies of Lilly s
books, records, and other documents and supporting materials and/or conduct on-site
reviews of any of Lilly s locations for the purpose of verifying and evaluating: (a) Lilly s
compliance with the terms of this CIA; and (b) Lilly s compliance with the requirements of
the Federal health care programs in which it participates and with all applicable FDA
requirements. The documentation described above shall be made
available by Lilly to OIG or its duly
authorized representative(s) at all reasonable times for inspection, audit, or reproduction.
Furthermore, for purposes of this provision, OIG or its duly authorized representative(s) may
interview any of Lilly s employees, contractors, or agents who
consent to be interviewed at the individual s place of business during normal business
hours or at such other place and time as may be mutually agreed upon between the individual and
OIG. Lilly shall assist OIG or its duly authorized representative(s) in contacting and arranging
interviews with such individuals upon OIG s request. Lilly s employees may elect to be
interviewed with or without a representative of Lilly present.

VIII.
    Document and Record
Retention   

Lilly shall maintain for inspection all documents and records relating to reimbursement from
the Federal health care programs, or to compliance with this CIA, for six years (or longer if
otherwise required by law) from the Effective Date.

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

39 

IX.     Disclosures   

Consistent with HHS s FOIA procedures, set forth in 45 C.F.R. Part 5, OIG shall make a
reasonable effort to notify Lilly prior to any release by OIG of information submitted by Lilly
pursuant to its obligations under this CIA and identified upon submission by Lilly as trade
secrets, or information that is commercial or financial and privileged or confidential, under the
FOIA rules. With respect to such releases, Lilly shall have the rights set forth at 45 C.F.R.  
5.65(d).

X.
    Breach and Default
Provisions   

Lilly is expected to fully and timely comply with all of its CIA obligations. The breach and
default remedies available to the OIG under this Section X do not preempt or limit any actions
that individual States may take against Lilly under applicable legal authorities or under any
applicable settlement agreement or consent decree between the State and Lilly.

A.  Stipulated Penalties for Failure to Comply with Certain Obligations . As a contractual
remedy, Lilly and OIG hereby agree that failure to comply with certain obligations as set forth in
this CIA may lead to the imposition of the following monetary penalties (hereinafter referred to
as  Stipulated Penalties ) in accordance with the following provisions.

1. A Stipulated Penalty of $2,500 (which shall begin to accrue on the day after the date the
obligation became due) for each day Lilly fails to establish, implement, or accomplish any of the
following obligations as described in Section III:

a. a Compliance Officer; 

b. a Compliance Committee; 

c. the resolution from the Committee of the Board; 

d. a written Code of Conduct; 

e. written Policies and Procedures; 

f. the training of Covered Persons and Relevant Covered Persons; 

g. a Disclosure Program; 

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

40 

h. Ineligible Persons screening and removal requirements; 

i. notification of Government investigations or legal proceedings; 

j. notification of written
communications with FDA as required by Section III.I; 

k. a review of records reflecting the content of detailing sessions; 

l. a program for FFMP; 

l. notification to HCPs and HCIs as required by Section III.L; 

m. posting of any Payments as required by Section III.M. 

2. A Stipulated Penalty of $2,500 (which shall begin to accrue on the day after the date the
obligation became due) for each day Lilly fails to engage an IRO, as required in Section III.D and
Appendices A-B.

3.
A Stipulated Penalty of $2,500 (which shall begin to accrue on the day after the date the
obligation became due) for each day Lilly fails to submit the Implementation Report or the Annual
Reports to OIG in accordance with the requirements of Section V by the deadlines for submission.

4.
A Stipulated Penalty of $2,500 (which shall begin to accrue on the day after the date the
obligation became due) for each day Lilly fails to submit the annual IRO
Review Report(s) in accordance with the requirements of
Section III.D and Appendices A-B.

5. A Stipulated Penalty of $1,500 for each day Lilly fails to grant access as required in
Section VII. (This Stipulated Penalty shall begin to accrue on the date Lilly fails to grant
access.)

6. A Stipulated Penalty of $5,000 for each false certification submitted by or on behalf of
Lilly as part of its Implementation Report, Annual Report, additional documentation to a report (as
requested by the OIG), or otherwise required by this CIA.

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

41 

7. A Stipulated Penalty of $1,000 for each day Lilly fails to comply fully and adequately with
any obligation of this CIA. OIG shall provide notice to Lilly, stating the specific grounds for its
determination that Lilly has failed to comply fully and adequately with the CIA obligation(s) at
issue and steps Lilly shall take to comply with the CIA. (This Stipulated Penalty shall begin to
accrue 10 days after Lilly receives this notice from OIG of the failure to comply.) A Stipulated
Penalty as described in this Subsection shall not be demanded for any violation for which OIG has
sought a Stipulated Penalty under Subsections 1-6 of this Section.

B.  Timely Written Requests for Extensions . Lilly may, in advance of the due
date, submit a timely written request for an extension of time to perform any act or file any
notification or report required by this CIA. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Section,
if OIG grants the timely written request with respect to an act, notification, or report,
Stipulated Penalties for failure to perform the act or file the notification or report shall not
begin to accrue until one day after Lilly fails to meet the revised deadline set by OIG.
Notwithstanding any other provision in this Section, if OIG denies such a timely written request,
Stipulated Penalties for failure to perform the act or file the notification or report shall not
begin to accrue until three business days after Lilly receives OIG s written denial of such request
or the original due date, whichever is later. A  timely written request  is defined as a request in
writing received by OIG at least five business days prior to the date by which any act is due to be
performed or any notification or report is due to be filed.

C.  Payment of Stipulated Penalties .

1.
 Demand Letter . Upon a finding that Lilly has failed to comply with any of the obligations
described in Section X.A and after determining that Stipulated Penalties are appropriate, OIG shall
notify Lilly of: (a) Lilly s failure to comply; and (b) OIG s exercise of its contractual right to
demand payment of the Stipulated Penalties (this notification is referred to as the  Demand
Letter ).

2.
 Response to Demand Letter . Within 10 days after the
receipt of the Demand Letter, Lilly shall either: (a) cure the breach to OIG s satisfaction and pay the
applicable Stipulated Penalties; or (b) request a hearing before an HHS administrative
law judge (ALJ) to dispute OIG s determination of noncompliance, pursuant to the agreed
upon provisions set forth below in Section X.E. In the event Lilly elects to request an ALJ
hearing, the Stipulated Penalties shall continue to accrue until Lilly cures, to OIG s
satisfaction, the alleged breach in dispute. Failure to respond to the Demand Letter in one

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

42 

of these two manners within the allowed time period shall be considered a material breach of this
CIA and shall be grounds for exclusion under Section X.D.

3.
 Form of Payment . Payment of the Stipulated Penalties shall be made by electronic funds
transfer to an account specified by OIG in the Demand Letter.

4.  Independence from Material Breach Determination.  Except as set forth
in Section X.D.1.c, these provisions for payment of Stipulated Penalties shall not affect or
otherwise set a standard for OIG s decision that Lilly has materially breached this CIA,
which decision shall be made at OIG s discretion and shall be governed by the provisions
in Section X.D, below.

D.  Exclusion for Material Breach of this CIA .

1.  Definition of Material Breach.  A material breach of this CIA means:

a. a failure by Lilly to report a Reportable Event and take corrective
action, as required in Section III.H;

b. a repeated or flagrant violation of the obligations under this CIA,
including, but not limited to, the obligations addressed in Section
X.A;

c. a failure to respond to a Demand Letter concerning the payment
of Stipulated Penalties in accordance with Section X.C;

d. a failure to engage and use an IRO in accordance with Section
III.D; or

e. a failure of the Committee of the Board to issue a resolution in
accordance with Section III.A.3.

2.  Notice of Material Breach and Intent to Exclude.  The parties agree that
a material breach of this CIA by Lilly constitutes an independent basis for Lilly s
exclusion from participation in the Federal health care programs. Upon a determination
by OIG that Lilly has materially breached this CIA and that exclusion is the appropriate
remedy, OIG shall notify Lilly of: (a) Lilly s material breach; and (b) OIG s intent to
exercise its contractual right to impose exclusion (this notification is hereinafter referred

Corporate
Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

43 

to as the  Notice of Material Breach and Intent to Exclude ).

3.
 Opportunity to Cure.  Lilly shall have 30 days from the date of receipt of
the Notice of Material Breach and Intent to Exclude to demonstrate to OIG s satisfaction
that:

a. Lilly is in compliance with the obligations of the CIA cited by
OIG as being the basis for the material breach;

b. the alleged material breach has been cured; or

c. the alleged material breach cannot be cured within the 30-day
period, but that: (i) Lilly has begun to take action to cure the
material breach; (ii) Lilly is pursuing such action with due diligence;
and (iii) Lilly has provided to OIG a reasonable timetable for curing
the material breach.

4.  Exclusion Letter.  If, at the conclusion of the 30-day period, Lilly fails to
satisfy the requirements of Section X.D.3, OIG may exclude Lilly from participation in
the Federal health care programs. OIG shall notify Lilly in writing of its determination to
exclude Lilly (this letter shall be referred to hereinafter as the  Exclusion Letter ).
Subject to the Dispute Resolution provisions in Section X.E, below, the exclusion shall go
into effect 30 days after the date of Lilly s receipt of the Exclusion Letter. The exclusion
shall have national effect and shall also apply to all other Federal procurement and
nonprocurement programs. Reinstatement to program participation is not automatic.
After the end of the period of exclusion, Lilly may apply for reinstatement by submitting
a written request for reinstatement in accordance with the provisions at 42 C.F.R.    1001.3001-.3004.

E.  Dispute Resolution 

1.  Review Rights.  Upon OIG s delivery to Lilly of its Demand Letter or of its Exclusion
Letter, and as an agreed-upon contractual remedy for the resolution of disputes arising under this
CIA, Lilly shall be afforded certain review rights comparable to the ones that are provided in 42
U.S.C.   1320a-7(f) and 42 C.F.R. Part 1005 as if they applied to the Stipulated Penalties or
exclusion sought pursuant to this CIA. Specifically, OIG s determination to demand payment of
Stipulated Penalties or to seek exclusion shall be subject to review by an HHS ALJ and, in the
event of an appeal, the HHS

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

44 

Departmental Appeals Board (DAB), in a manner consistent with the provisions in 42 C.F.R.  
1005.2-1005.21. Notwithstanding the language in 42 C.F.R.   1005.2(c), the request for a hearing
involving Stipulated Penalties shall be made within 10 days after receipt of the Demand Letter and
the request for a hearing involving exclusion shall be made within 25 days after receipt of the
Exclusion Letter.

2.  Stipulated Penalties Review.  Notwithstanding any provision of Title 42
of the United States Code or Title 42 of the Code of Federal Regulations, the only issues
in a proceeding for Stipulated Penalties under this CIA shall be: (a) whether Lilly was in
full and timely compliance with the obligations of this CIA for which OIG demands
payment; and (b) the period of noncompliance. Lilly shall have the burden of proving its
full and timely compliance and the steps taken to cure the noncompliance, if any. OIG
shall not have the right to appeal to the DAB an adverse ALJ decision related to
Stipulated Penalties. If the ALJ agrees with OIG with regard to a finding of a breach of
this CIA and orders Lilly to pay Stipulated Penalties, such Stipulated Penalties shall
become due and payable 20 days after the ALJ issues such a decision unless Lilly
requests review of the ALJ decision by the DAB. If the ALJ decision is properly
appealed to the DAB and the DAB upholds the determination of OIG, the Stipulated
Penalties shall become due and payable 20 days after the DAB issues its decision.

3.  Exclusion Review.  Notwithstanding any provision of Title 42 of the
United States Code or Title 42 of the Code of Federal Regulations, the only issues in a
proceeding for exclusion based on a material breach of this CIA shall be:

a. whether Lilly was in material breach of this CIA;

b. whether such breach was continuing on the date of the Exclusion
Letter; and

c. whether the alleged material breach could not have been cured
within the 30-day period, but that: (i) Lilly had begun to take action
to cure the material breach within that period; (ii) Lilly has pursued
and is pursuing such action with due diligence; and (iii) Lilly
provided to OIG within that period a reasonable timetable for curing the
material breach and Lilly has followed the timetable.

For purposes of the exclusion herein, exclusion shall take effect only after an ALJ decision
favorable to OIG, or, if the ALJ rules for Lilly, only after a DAB

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

45 

decision in favor of OIG. Lilly s election of its contractual right to appeal to the DAB shall not
abrogate OIG s authority to exclude Lilly upon the issuance of an ALJ s decision in favor of OIG.
If the ALJ sustains the determination of OIG and determines that exclusion is authorized, such
exclusion shall take effect 20 days after the ALJ issues such a decision, notwithstanding that
Lilly may request review of the ALJ decision by the DAB. If the DAB finds in favor of OIG after an
ALJ decision adverse to OIG, the exclusion shall take effect 20 days after the DAB decision. Lilly
shall waive its right to any notice of such an exclusion if a decision upholding the exclusion is
rendered by the ALJ or DAB. If the DAB finds in favor of Lilly, Lilly shall be reinstated effective
on the date of the original exclusion.

4.  Finality of Decision.  The review by an ALJ or DAB provided for above shall not be
considered to be an appeal right arising under any statutes or regulations. Consequently, the
parties to this CIA agree that the DAB s decision (or the ALJ s decision if not appealed) shall be
considered final for all purposes under this CIA.

XI.
    Effective and
Binding Agreement   

Lilly and OIG agree as follows:

A. This CIA shall be binding on the successors, assigns, and transferees of Lilly;

B. This CIA shall become final and binding on the date the final signature is
obtained on the CIA;

C. This CIA constitutes the complete agreement between the parties and may not
be amended except by written consent of the parties to this CIA;

D. The undersigned Lilly signatories represent and warrant that they are
authorized to execute this CIA. The undersigned OIG signatory represents that he is
signing this CIA in his official capacity and that he is authorized to execute this CIA; and

E. This CIA may be executed in counterparts, each of which constitutes an original and all of
which constitute one and the same CIA. Facsimiles of signatures shall constitute acceptable,
binding signatures for purposes of this CIA.

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

46 

On Behalf of Eli Lilly and Company  

/s/ Robert A. Armitage

14 January 2009 

Robert A. Armitage

Date 

Senior Vice President and General Counsel

/s/ Anne Nobles

1/14/09 

Anne Nobles

Date 

Lilly Chief Compliance Officer

/s/ Paul Kalb

1/14/09 

Paul Kalb

Date 

Kristin Koehler

Counsel for Eli Lilly and Company

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

47 

On Behalf of the Office of Inspector General 
of the Department of Health and Human Services  

/s/ Gregory E. Demske

1/14/09 

Gregory E. Demske

DATE 

Assistant Inspector General for Legal Affairs

Office of Inspector General

U. S. Department of Health and Human Services

Corporate Integrity Agreement 
Eli Lilly Company

48 

APPENDIX A 

INDEPENDENT REVIEW ORGANIZATION 

This Appendix contains the requirements relating to the Independent Review Organization
(IRO) required by Section III.D of the CIA.

A. 
       
      IRO Engagement  

Lilly shall engage an IRO that possesses the qualifications set forth in Paragraph
B, below, to perform the responsibilities in Paragraph C, below. The IRO shall conduct
the review in a professionally independent and objective fashion, as set forth in Paragraph
D. Within 30 days after OIG receives written notice of the identity of the selected IRO,
OIG will notify Lilly if the IRO is unacceptable. Absent notification from OIG that the
IRO is unacceptable, Lilly may continue to engage the IRO.

If Lilly engages a new IRO during the term of the CIA, this IRO shall also meet the
requirements of this Appendix. If a new IRO is engaged, Lilly shall submit the information
identified in Section V.A.8 of the CIA to OIG within 30 days of engagement of the IRO. Within 30
days after OIG receives written notice of the identity of the selected IRO, OIG will notify Lilly
if the IRO is unacceptable. Absent notification from OIG that the IRO is unacceptable, Lilly may
continue to engage the IRO.

B. 
       
      IRO Qualifications . 

The IRO shall:

1. assign individuals to conduct the Promotional and Product Services Review
who have expertise in all applicable Federal health care program and FDA requirements
relating to Promotional and Product Services Related Functions. The assigned
individuals shall also be knowledgeable about the general requirements of the Federal
health care program(s) under which Lilly products are reimbursed;

2. assign individuals to design and select the samples for the Transaction Reviews
who are knowledgeable about the appropriate statistical sampling techniques; and

3. have sufficient staff and resources to conduct the reviews required by the CIA
on a timely basis.

Appendix A 
Eli Lilly CIA 

1 

C. 
       
      IRO Responsibilities . 

The IRO shall:

1. perform each Promotional and Product Services Review in accordance with the
specific requirements of the CIA;

2. follow all applicable Federal health care program and FDA requirements in
making assessments in each Promotional and Product Services Review;

3.
if in doubt of the application of a particular Federal health care
program or FDA requirement, policy, or regulation, request
clarification from the appropriate authority ( e.g. , CMS or FDA);

4. respond to all OIG inquires in a prompt, objective, and factual manner; and

5. prepare timely, clear, well-written reports that include all the information
required by Appendix B to the CIA.

D. 
       
      IRO Independence and Objectivity . 

The IRO must perform the Promotional and Product Services Review in a professionally independent
and objective fashion, as appropriate to the nature of the engagement, taking into account any
other business relationships or engagements that may exist between the IRO and Lilly.

E. 
       
      IRO Removal/Termination . 

1.  Lilly Termination of IRO.  If Lilly terminates its IRO during the course of the
engagement, Lilly must submit a notice explaining its reasons to OIG no later than 30
days after termination. Lilly must engage a new IRO in accordance with Paragraph A of
this Appendix.

2.  OIG Removal of IRO.  In the event OIG has reason to believe that the IRO does
not possess the qualifications described in Paragraph B, is not independent and/or
objective as set forth in Paragraph D, or has failed to carry out its responsibilities as
described in Paragraph C, OIG may, at its sole discretion, require Lilly to engage a new
IRO in accordance with Paragraph A of this Appendix.

Prior to requiring Lilly to engage a new IRO, OIG shall notify Lilly of its intent to do so
and provide a written explanation of why OIG believes such a step is necessary. To resolve any
concerns raised by OIG, Lilly may request a meeting with OIG to discuss any aspect of the IRO s
qualifications, independence or performance of its responsibilities and to present additional
information regarding these matters. Lilly shall provide any additional information as may be
requested by OIG under this Paragraph in an expedited manner. OIG will attempt in good faith to
resolve any differences regarding the IRO with Lilly prior to requiring Lilly to terminate the IRO.
However, the final determination as to whether or not to require Lilly to engage a new IRO shall be made at the sole discretion of
OIG.

Appendix A 
Eli Lilly CIA

2 

Appendix B to CIA 
Promotional and Product Services Review 

I. 
       
     Promotional and Product Services Review, General Description 

As specified more fully below, Lilly shall retain an Independent Review Organization (IRO) to
perform reviews to assist Lilly in assessing and evaluating its systems, processes, policies,
procedures, and practices related to Lilly s Promotional and Product Services Related Functions
(Promotional and Product Services Review). The Promotional and Product Services Review shall
consist of two components - a systems review (the  Promotional and Product Services Systems Review 
or  Systems Review ), and a transactions review (the  Promotional and Product Services Transactions
Review  or  Transactions Review ) as described more fully below. Lilly may engage, at its
discretion, a single IRO to perform both components of the Promotional and Product Services Review
provided that the entity has the necessary expertise and capabilities to perform both.

If there are no material changes in Lilly s systems, processes, policies, and procedures
relating to Promotional and Product Services Related Functions, the IRO shall perform the
Promotional and Product Services Systems Review for the first and fourth Reporting Periods. If
Lilly materially changes its systems, processes, policies, and procedures relating to Promotional
and Product Services Related Functions, the IRO shall perform a Promotional and Product Services
Systems Review for the Reporting Period(s) in which such changes were made in addition to
conducting the Review for the first and fourth Reporting Periods. The additional Systems Review(s)
shall consist of: 1) an identification of the material changes; 2) an assessment of whether other
systems, processes, policies, and procedures previously reported did not materially change; and 3)
a review of the systems, processes, policies, and procedures that materially changed. The IRO shall
conduct the Promotional and Product Services Transactions Review for each Reporting Period of the
CIA.

II. 
       
     Promotional and Product Services Systems Review 

A. 
       
     Description of Reviewed Policies and Procedures 

The Promotional and Product Services Systems Review shall be a review of Lilly s systems,
processes, policies, and procedures (including the controls on those systems, processes, policies,
and procedures) relating to certain Promotional and Product Services Related Functions. Where
practical, Lilly personnel may compile documentation, schedule and organize interviews, and
undertake other efforts to assist the IRO in performing the Systems Review. The IRO is not

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

1 

required to undertake a de novo review of the information gathered or activities undertaken by
Lilly pursuant to the preceding sentence.

Specifically, the IRO shall review Lilly s systems, processes, policies, and procedures
associated with the following (hereafter  Reviewed Policies and Procedures ):

1) Lilly s systems, policies, processes, and procedures applicable to the
manner in which Lilly sales representatives and account executives handle and submit
requests or inquiries to The Lilly Answers Center ( TLAC ) relating to information
about the uses of Lilly s Government Reimbursed Products (including non-FDA-approved
 (i.e.,  off-label) uses) and the dissemination of materials relating to off-label
uses of Lilly s Government Reimbursed Products. This review includes:

a) 
       
     the manner in which Lilly sales
representatives and account executives handle and submit requests for
information about off-label uses of Lilly s Government
Reimbursed Products to TLAC; 

b) 
       
     the manner in which TLAC personnel, handle
and respond to requests submitted by sales representatives
and account executives for information about off-label
uses of Lilly s Government Reimbursed Products
(including tracking the requests and using pre-approved materials for purposes of responding to the
request); 

c) 
       
     the form and content of information and
materials related to Lilly s Government Reimbursed Products
disseminated to physicians, pharmacists, or other
health care professionals (collectively  HCPs ) or
health care institutions (HCIs) by Lilly; 

d) 
       
     Lilly s systems, processes, and procedures (including
the TLAC Database) used to track requests for information submitted by sales representatives and account
executives to TLAC about off-label uses of Lilly s Government
Reimbursed Products and responses to those requests; 

e) 
       
     the manner in which Lilly collects and
supports information reported in any systems used to track and
respond to requests for product information, including
the TLAC Database; 

Appendix B

Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

2 

f) 
       
     the processes and procedures by which TLAC and
Lilly s Compliance Office or their designee monitor
and identify situations in which it appears that
improper off-label promotion may have occurred; and 

g) 
       
     Lilly s processes and procedures for
investigating, documenting, resolving, and taking appropriate disciplinary action for potential situations involving off-label
promotion; 

2) Lilly s policies and procedures applicable to the manner and
circumstances under which its Medical Liaisons and Outcomes Liaisons participate in
meetings or events with HCPs or HCIs (either alone or with sales representatives or
account executives) and the role of the Medical Liaisons and Outcomes Liaisons at
such meetings or events, including use of the Eli Lilly Contact Information
Management (ELCIM) system to document requests and/or the use of LillyMedical.com to
respond to requests for medical information;

3) Lilly s systems, policies, processes, and procedures relating to
Lilly s internal review and approval of information and materials
related to Lilly s Government Reimbursed Products disseminated to
HCPs or HCIs by Lilly;

4) Lilly s systems, polices, processes and procedures relating to
incentive compensation for Covered Persons who are sales
representatives, with regard to whether the systems, policies,
processes, and procedures are designed to ensure that financial
incentives do not inappropriately motivate such individuals to engage
in the improper promotion, sales, and marketing of Lilly s
Government Reimbursed Products. This shall include a review of the
bases upon which compensation is determined and the extent to
which compensation is based on product performance;

5) Lilly s systems, processes, policies, and procedures relating to
the development and review of call plans for Lilly s Government Reimbursed Products.
This shall include a review of the bases upon which HCPs and HCIs belonging to
specified medical specialties are included in, or excluded from, the call plans
based on expected utilization of Lilly Government Reimbursed Products for
FDA-approved uses or non-FDA-approved uses; and

6) Lilly s systems, processes, policies, and procedures relating to the
development, implementation, and review of Sample Distribution

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

3 

Plans. This shall include a review of the bases upon, and circumstances under, which
HCPs and HCIs belonging to specified medical specialties or types of clinical
practice may receive samples from Lilly (including, separately, from Lilly sales
representatives and Lilly s medical services department).

B. Promotional and Product Services Systems Review Report

The IRO shall prepare a report based upon each Systems Review. For each of the Reviewed
Policies and Procedures identified in  Section II.A above, the report shall include the following
items:

1) a description of the documentation (including policies)
reviewed and any personnel interviewed;

2) a detailed description of Lilly s systems, policies, processes,
and procedures relating to the items identified in Sections II.A.1-6
above, including a general description of Lilly s control and
accountability systems ( e.g. , documentation and approval
requirements, and tracking mechanisms) and written policies
regarding the Reviewed Policies and Procedures;

3) a description of the manner in which the control and
accountability systems and the written policies relating to the items
identified in Sections II.A.1-6 above are made known or
disseminated within Lilly;

4) a detailed description of any system(s) used to track and
respond to requests for information submitted by sales
representatives and account executives about Lilly s Government
Reimbursed Products (including the TLAC Database);

5) a detailed description of Lilly s incentive compensation
system for Covered Persons who are sales representatives, including
a description of the bases upon which compensation is determined and the extent to
which compensation is based on product performance. To the extent that Lilly may
establish compensation differently for individual products, the IRO shall report
separately on each such type of compensation arrangement;

6) findings and supporting rationale regarding any weaknesses
in Lilly s systems, processes, policies, and procedures relating to the
Reviewed Policies and Procedures, if any; and

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

4 

7) recommendations to improve any of the systems, policies, processes, or
procedures relating to the Reviewed Policies and Procedures, if any.

III. 
       
     Promotional and Product Services Transaction Review 

As described more fully below in Sections III.A-E, the Promotional and Product Services
Transactions Review shall include: (1) a review of a sample of Inquiries reflected in the TLAC
Database; (2) a review of Lilly s call plans and Lilly s call plan review process; (3) a review of
Sampling Events as defined below in Section III.C; (4) a review of records relating to a sample of
the Payments that are reported by Lilly pursuant to Section III.M of the CIA; and (5) a review of
up to three additional items identified by the OIG in accordance with Section III.D.1.b of the CIA
(hereafter  Additional Items .) The IRO shall report on all aspects of its reviews in the
Promotional and Product Services Transactions Review Reports.

A. 
       
     Review of Inquiries and TLAC Database 

1) 
       
     Description of TLAC Database 

As set forth in Section III.B.3.e of the CIA, Lilly shall establish a
database (hereafter,  TLAC database ) to track information relating
to requests for information submitted by Lilly sales representatives
and account executives to TLAC about its products (hereafter
 Inquiries ). Specifically, Lilly shall document and record all
Inquiries submitted based on requests from HCPs or HCIs regarding
Lilly s Government Reimbursed Products in the TLAC database.
Lilly shall record in the TLAC Database the following information
for each Inquiry received: 1) date of Inquiry; 2) form of Inquiry
( e.g ., fax, phone, medical information request form); 3) name of
requesting HCP or HCI, in accordance with applicable privacy laws;
4) nature and topic of request (including exact language of the
Inquiry if made in writing); 5) nature/form of the response from Lilly (including a
record of any materials provided in response to the request); and 6) the name of
the Lilly representative who called upon or interacted with the HCP or HCI, if
known. 

2) 
       
     Internal Review of TLAC Database 

On a semi-annual basis, the Lilly s Compliance Office or designee shall review the
TLAC Database and related information, as 

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

5 

appropriate, and shall generate a report summarizing the items of information
outlined in Section III.A.1 above for each Inquiry received during the preceding
two quarters ( TLAC Database Report ). Lilly s Compliance Office or designee shall
review the TLAC Database Reports to assess whether the information contained in the
report suggests that improper off-label promotion may have occurred in connection
with any Inquiry(ies). If the Lilly s Compliance Office or designee, in
consultation with other appropriate Lilly personnel, suspects that improper
off-label promotion may have occurred in connection with any Inquiry, the Lilly s
Compliance Office or designee shall undertake a follow-up review of the Inquiry
(hereafter  Off-Label Review ), make specific findings based on the Off-Label
Review, and take all appropriate corrective action (including disciplinary action
of the Covered Person and reporting of the conduct, including disclosing Reportable
Events pursuant to Section III.H of the CIA, if applicable).

3) 
       
     IRO Review of Inquiries Reflected in the TLAC Database 

The IRO shall select and review a random sample of 60 Inquiries from among the
Inquiries reflected in the TLAC Database for each Reporting Period. Forty-five of
the Inquiries reviewed by the IRO shall be Inquiries for which Lilly conducted an
Off-Label Review, and the other 15 shall be Inquiries for which Lilly did not
conduct an Off-Label Review. If Lilly conducted an Off-Label Review on fewer than
45 Inquiries, additional Inquiries may be selected for which an Off-Label Review
was not conducted to reach a total of 60 Inquiries. For each Inquiry reviewed, the
IRO shall determine: 

a) 
       
     Whether each item of information listed above in Section
III.A.1
is reflected in the TLAC Database for each reviewed Inquiry; and 

b) 
       
     For each Inquiry for which Lilly s Compliance Office or designee
conducted an Off-Label Review, the basis for suspecting that
improper off-label promotion may have occurred; the steps undertaken as part of
the Off-Label Review; the findings of the Lilly s Compliance Office or designee
as a result of the Off-Label Review; and any follow-up actions taken by Lilly
based on the Off-Label Review findings. 

B. 
       
     IRO Review of Lilly s Call Plans and Call Plan Review Process 

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

6 

The IRO shall conduct a review and assessment of Lilly s review of its call plans for
Government Reimbursed Products as set forth in Section III.B.3.g of the CIA. Lilly shall provide
the IRO with: i) a list of products promoted by Lilly during the Reporting Period; ii) information
about the FDA-approved uses for each Lilly product; and iii) the call plans for each product. Lilly
shall also provide the IRO with information about the reviews of call plans that Lilly conducted
during the Reporting Period and any modifications to the call plans made as a result of Lilly s
reviews.

For each call plan, the IRO shall select a sample of 50 of the HCPs and HCIs included on the
call plan. For each call plan, the IRO shall compare the sampled HCPs and HCIs against the criteria
( e.g. , medical specialty or practice area) used by Lilly in conducting its review and/or
modification of the call plan in order to determine whether Lilly followed its criteria and
Policies and Procedures in reviewing and modifying the call plan.

The IRO shall note any instances in which it appears that the sampled HCPs and HCIs on a
particular call plan are inconsistent with Lilly s criteria relating to the call plan and/or
Lilly s Policies and Procedures. The IRO shall also note any instances in which it appears that
Lilly failed to follow its criteria or Policies and Procedures.

C. 

         IRO Review of the Distribution of Samples of Lilly s Government Reimbursed
Products 

The IRO shall conduct a review and assessment of the distribution of samples of Lilly s
Government Reimbursed Products to HCPs and HCIs. Lilly shall provide the IRO with: i) a list of
products for which Lilly distributed samples during the Reporting Period; ii) information about the
FDA-approved uses for each Lilly product; and iii) information about Lilly s policies and
procedures relating to the distribution of samples of each type of product, including Lilly s
Sample Distribution Plan showing which type samples may be distributed by sales representatives to
HCPs and HCIs of particular medical specialties or types of clinical practices. Lilly shall also
provide the IRO with information about: (1) the reviews of Sample Distribution Plans that Lilly
conducted during the Reporting Period; and (2) any modifications to the distribution plans made or
corrective actions that may be taken as a result of Lilly s reviews, including investigating,
documenting, resolving, and taking disciplinary action.

For each product for which Lilly distributed samples during the Reporting Period, the IRO
shall randomly select a sample of 50 separate instances in which Lilly provided samples of the
product to HCPs or HCIs either through sales

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

7 

representation distribution or direct shipment. Each such instance shall be known as a  Sampling
Event. 

For each Sampling Event, the IRO shall review all documents and information relating to the
distribution of the sample to the HCP or HCI, including the sample card, direct shipment request
form and/or the electronic call record. The reviewed materials shall include information about the
following: 1) the quantity, dosage, and form of the Lilly product provided to the HCP or HCI; 2)
the identity and type of medical specialty or clinical practice of the HCP or HCI; 3) which
individual Lilly sales representative accepted the sample request form or provided the sample to
the HCP or HCI; 4) the manner and mechanism through which the sample was requested (e.g., sample
card or direct shipment request form); and 5) the manner and mechanism through which the request
was fulfilled  (e.g.,  sales representative distribution or direct shipment.)

For each Sampling Event, the IRO shall evaluate whether the sample was provided to an HCP or
HCI whose medical specialty or clinical practice is consistent with the uses of the product
approved by the FDA and whether the sample was distributed by a Lilly representative in a manner
consistent with Lilly s sample distribution policy for the product(s) provided during the Sampling
Event. To the extent that a sample was provided to an HCP or HCI by a Lilly representative other
than a sales representative, the IRO shall contact the HCP or HCI by letter. The letter shall
request that the HCP or HCI: 1) verify that he/she/it received the quantity and type of samples
identified by the IRO as the Sampling Event; 2) verify that he/she/it requested the samples
provided during the Sampling Event; 3) explain or confirm its type of medical specialty or clinical
practice; and 4) identify the basis for requesting the sample  (e.g.,  conversations with a Lilly
sales representative, conversation with a representative of Lilly s medical services department,
independent research or knowledge of the HCP or HCI,  etc.) 

For each Sampling Event, the IRO shall compare the medical specialty and type of clinical
practice of the HCPs and HCIs that received the sample with uses of the product approved by the
FDA. The IRO shall note any instances in which it appears that the medical specialty or clinical
practice of the HCPs or HCIs that received a sample during a Sampling Event were not consistent
with the uses of the product approved by the FDA. For each such situation, the IRO shall note the
process followed by Lilly in determining that it was appropriate to provide a sample to such HCP or
HCI and the basis for such determination. For each Sampling Event, the IRO shall also note any
instances in which it appears that Lilly failed to follow its Sample Distribution Plan and sample
policies and procedures for the product(s) provided during the Sampling Event and, if so, whether
Lilly already had taken corrective action, including investigating, documenting, resolving, and
taking disciplinary action, if appropriate.

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

8 

D. 
       
     IRO Review of Physician Payment Listings 

1) 
       
     Information Contained in Physician Payment Listings 

As set forth in Section III.M of the CIA, Lilly shall post quarterly and annual listings of
physicians and Related Entities who received Phase I, II, or III Payments, as defined in the CIA,
directly or indirectly from Lilly. For purposes of the IRO review as set forth in this Section
III.C, each annual listing shall be referred to as the  Physician Payment Listing  or  Listing. 
For each physician and Related Entity, each Physician Payment Listing shall include the following
information: i) physician s full name; ii) name of Related Entity (if applicable); iii) city and
state that the physician or the Related Entity has provided to Lilly for contact purposes; and (iv)
the aggregate value of the payment(s) in the preceding quarter(s) or year (as applicable). If
payments for multiple physicians have been made to one Related Entity, the aggregate value of all
payments to the Related Entity will be the reported amount.

For purposes of this IRO review, the term  Control Documents  shall include all documents or
electronic records associated with each Payment reflected in the Physician Payments Listing for the
sampled physician and/or Related Entity. For example, the term  Control Documents  includes, but is
not limited to, documents relating to the nature, purpose, and amount of all Payments reflected in
the Listing; contracts relating to the Payment(s) reflected in the Listing; documents relating to
the occurrence of Payment(s) reflected in the Listing; documents reflecting any work product
generated in connection with the Payment(s); documents submitted by sales representatives or
headquarters personnel to request approval for the Payment(s); and business rationale or
justification forms relating to the Payment(s).

2) 
       
     Selection of Sample for Review 

For each Reporting Period, the OIG shall have the discretion to identify up to 50 physicians
or Related Entities from the applicable Physician Payment Listing that will be subject to the IRO
review described below. If the OIG elects to exercise this discretion, it shall notify the IRO of
the physicians and/or Related Entities subject to the IRO review. If the OIG elects not to exercise
its discretion as described above, the IRO shall randomly select 50 physicians and/or Related
Entities to be included in the review. For each selected physician and/or Related Entity, the IRO
shall review the entry in the Physician Payment Listing and the Control Documents relating to
Payments reflected in Listing identified by the IRO as necessary and sufficient to validate the
Payment information in the Listing.

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

9 

3) 
       
     IRO Review of Control Documents for Selected Physicians
and/or Related Entities 

For each physician and/or Related Entity selected as part of the sample, the IRO shall review
the Control Documents identified by the IRO as necessary and sufficient to validate each Payment
reflected in the Listing to evaluate the following:

a) 
       
     Whether Control Documents are available relating to each
Payment reflected in the Listing for the sampled physician
and/or Related Entity; 

b) 
       
     Whether the Control Documents were completed and
archived in accordance with the requirements set forth in
Lilly s policies; 

c) 
       
     Whether the aggregate value of the Payment(s) as reflected in
the Listing for the sampled physician or Related Entity is
consistent with the value of the Payments(s) reflected in the
Control Documents; and 

d) 
       
     Whether the Control Documents reflect that
Lilly s policies were followed in connection with Payment(s)
reflected in the Listing ( e.g. , all required written approvals for
the activity were obtained in accordance with Lilly s
policies.) 

4) 
       
     Identification of Material Errors and Additional Review 

A Material Error is defined as any of the following: 

a) 
       
     A situation in which all required Control Documents relating to
Payments reflected in the Listing for the sampled physician
and/or Related Entity do not exist and: 

i. 
       
     no corrective action was initiated prior to the selection of
the sampled physicians and/or Related Entities; or 

ii. 
       
     the IRO cannot confirm that Lilly otherwise
followed its policies and procedures relating to the entry in
the Listing for the sampled physician or Related Entity,
including its policies and procedures relating to any
Payment(s) reflected in the Listing; or 

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

10 

b) 
       
     Information or data is omitted from key fields in the Control Documents that
prevents the IRO from assessing compliance with Lilly s policies and
procedures, and the IRO cannot obtain this information or data from reviewing
other Control Documents. 

If a Control Document does not exist, but Lilly has initiated corrective action prior to the
selection of the sampled physicians and/or Related Entities, or if a Control Document does not
exist but the IRO can determine that Lilly otherwise followed its policies and procedures with
regard to each entry in the Listing for a sampled physician or Related Entity, the IRO shall
consider such a situation to be an exception (rather than a Material Error) and the IRO shall
report the situation as such. The IRO shall note as exceptions any Control Documents for which
non-material information or data is omitted.

If the IRO identifies any Material Errors, the IRO shall conduct such Additional Review of the
underlying Payment associated with the erroneous Control Documents as may be necessary to determine
the root cause of the Material Errors. For example, the IRO may need to review additional
documentation and/or conduct interviews with appropriate personnel to identify the root cause of
the Material Error(s) discovered.

E. 
       
     IRO Review of Additional Items 

As set forth in Section III.D.1.b of the CIA, for each Reporting Period, the OIG at its
discretion may identify up to three additional items for the IRO to review (hereafter  Additional
Items .) No later than 120 days prior to the end of the applicable Reporting Period, the OIG shall
notify Lilly of the nature and scope of the IRO review to be conducted for each of the Additional
Items. Prior to undertaking the review of the Additional Items, the IRO and/or Lilly shall submit
an audit work plan to the OIG for approval and the IRO shall conduct the review of the Additional
Items based on a work plan approved by the OIG. The IRO shall include information about its review
of each Additional Item in the Transactions Review Report (including a description of the review
conducted for each Additional Item; the IRO s findings based on its review for each Additional
Item; and the IRO s recommendations for any changes in Lilly s systems, processes, policies, and
procedures based on its review of each Additional Item.)

Lilly may propose to the OIG that its internal audit(s) and/or reviews conducted as part of
the Lilly Compliance Monitoring Program be partially substituted for one or more of the
Additional Items that would otherwise be reviewed by the IRO for the applicable Reporting
Period. The Lilly Compliance

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

11 

Monitoring Plan is a monitoring plan developed by Lilly s Compliance Office that includes the
following types of events: Advisory Board Meetings, Consultant Task Force Activities, Speaker
Trainings, Speaker Programs, Exhibits, Internal Meetings, Field Sales Meetings, Sales
Representative Ride-Alongs, Medical or Outcome Liaison Ride-Alongs, Good Business Practice Reviews,
Grant Committee Meetings, and Activities Funded by Lilly Grant Office. The OIG retains sole
discretion over whether, and in what manner, to allow Lilly s internal audit work to be substituted
for a portion of the Additional Items review conducted by the IRO.

In making its decision, the OIG agrees to consider, among other factors, the nature and scope
of Lilly s planned internal audit work and/or reviews conducted under the Compliance Monitoring
Program, the results of the Transactions Review(s) during prior Reporting Period(s), and Lilly s
demonstrated audit capabilities to perform the proposed audit work internally. If the OIG denies
Lilly s request to permit its internal audit work to be substituted for a portion of the IRO s
review of Additional Items in a given Reporting Period, Lilly shall engage the IRO to perform the
Review as outlined in this Section III.

If the OIG agrees to permit certain of Lilly s internal audit work for a given Reporting
Period to be substituted for a portion of Additional Items review, such internal work would be
subject to verification by the IRO (Verification Review). In such an instance, the OIG would
provide additional details about the scope of the Verification Review to be conducted by the IRO.
However, for purposes of any Verification Review, the IRO shall review of at least 20% of the
sampling units reviewed by Lilly in its internal audits.

F. 
       
     Promotional and Product Services Transactions Review Report 

For each Reporting Period, the IRO shall prepare a report based on its Promotional and Product
Services Transactions Review. The report shall include the following:

1)  
         
      General Elements to Be Included in Report 

a) 
       
     Review Objectives: A clear statement of the
objectives intended to be achieved by each part of the review; 

b) 
       
     Review Protocol: A detailed narrative description of the
procedures performed and a description of the sampling unit
and universe utilized in performing the procedures for each
sample reviewed; and 

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

12 

c) 
       
     Sources of Data: A full description of documentation and other
information, if applicable, relied upon by the IRO in performing the
Promotional and Product Services Transactions Review. 

2) 
       
     Results to be Included in Report 

The following results shall be included in each Promotional and Product
Services Review Report: 

(Relating to the Review of Inquiries) 

a) 
       
     in connection with the review of Inquiries, a description of
each type of sample unit reviewed, including the number of
each type of sample units reviewed ( e.g. , the number of
Inquiries) and an identification of the types of documents and
information reviewed for the Inquiries; 

b) 
       
     for each Inquiry sample unit, the IRO shall summarize the
information about the Inquiry contained in the TLAC
Database; 

c) 
       
     for each Inquiry sample unit, findings and supporting
rationale as to whether: (i) each item of information listed in
Section III.A.1 is reflected in the TLAC Database; and (ii) for
each Inquiry for which an Off-Label Review was conducted,
the basis for suspecting that improper off-label promotion
may have occurred; the steps undertaken as part of the Off-Label Review; the findings of Lilly s Compliance Office as a
result of the Off-Label Review; and any follow-up actions
taken by Lilly as a result of Lilly s Compliance Office
findings; 

d) 
       
     the findings and supporting rationale regarding any
weaknesses in Lilly s systems, processes, policies, procedures, and
practices relating to the Inquiries, and the TLAC Database, if any; 

e) 
       
     recommendations for improvement in Lilly s systems,
processes, policies, procedures, and practices relating to the Inquiries
and the TLAC Database, if any; 

(Relating to the Call Plan Reviews)

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

13 

f) 
       
     a list of the Government Reimbursed Products promoted by Lilly
during the Reporting Period and a summary of the FDA-approved uses for such
products; 

g) 
       
     for each Lilly Government Reimbursed Product: i) a
description of the criteria used by Lilly in developing or reviewing the
call plans and for including or excluding specified types of HCPs or HCIs
from the call plans; ii) a description of the review conducted by Lilly of
the call plans and an indication of whether Lilly reviewed the call plans
as required by Section III.B.3.g of the CIA; iii) a description of all
instances for each call plan in which it appears that the HCPs and HCIs
included on the call plan are inconsistent with Lilly s criteria relating
to the call plan and/or Lilly s Policies and Procedures; and iv) a
description of all instances in which it appears that Lilly failed to
follow its criteria or Policies and Procedures relating to call plans or
the review of the call plans; 

h) 
       
     the findings and supporting rationale regarding any
weaknesses in Lilly s systems, processes, policies, procedures, and practices
relating to Lilly s call plans or the review of the call plans, if any; 

i) 
       
     recommendations, if any, for changes in Lilly s
systems, processes, policies, procedures, and practices that would correct or
address any weaknesses or deficiencies uncovered during the Transactions
Review with respect to call plans or the review of the call plans; 

(Relating to the Sampling Event Reviews)

j) 
       
     for each Lilly product distributed during the Reporting
Period: i) a description of Sample Distribution Plan (including whether
sales representatives may provide samples of the product and, if so, to
HCPs or HCIs of which medical specialty or type of clinical practice a
sales representative may provide samples); ii) a detailed description of
any instances from the reviews by the IRO in which it appears that the
medical specialty or clinical practice of the HCPs or HCIs that received a
sample during a Sampling Event were not consistent with the uses of the
product approved by the 

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

14 

FDA. This description shall include a description of the process followed
by Lilly in determining that it was appropriate to provide a sample to such
HCP or HCI and the basis for such determination; and iii) a detailed
description of any instances in which it appears that Lilly failed to
follow its Sample Distribution Plan for the product(s) provided during the
Sampling Event;

k) 
       
     the findings and supporting rationale regarding any
weaknesses in Lilly s systems, processes, policies, procedures, and practices
relating to Lilly s distribution of samples of Lilly s Government Reimbursed
Products, if any; 

l) 
       
     recommendations, if any, for changes in Lilly s
systems, processes, policies, procedures, and practices that would correct or
address any weaknesses or deficiencies uncovered during the Transactions
Review with respect to the distribution of samples; 

(Relating to the Physician Payment Listing Reviews)

m) 
       
     a description of the entries in the Physician Payment
Listing for each physician or Related Entity sampled and a description of
Control Documents reviewed in connection with each selected physician or
Related Entity; 

n) 
       
     for each sampled physician or Related Entity, findings and
supporting rationale as to whether: (i) all required Control
Documents exist; (ii) each Control Document was completed
in accordance with all of the requirements set forth in the
applicable Lilly policy; (iii) the aggregate value of the
Payment(s) as reflected in the Listing for the sampled
physician or entity is consistent with the value of the
Payment(s) reflected in the Control Documents; (iv) each
Control Document reflects that Lilly s policies were followed in
connection with the underlying activity reflected in the document
( e.g. ,
all required approvals were obtained); and (v) any corrective action or
disciplinary action was undertaken in those instances in which Lilly
policies were not followed; 

o)  
       
      for each sampled physician or Related Entity unit
reviewed, an identification and description of all exceptions discovered. The
report shall also describe those instances in which 

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

15 

corrective action was initiated prior to the selection of the sampled
physicians or Related Entities, including a description of the
circumstances requiring corrective action and the nature of the corrective
action;

p) 
       
     if any Material Errors are discovered in any sample unit
reviewed, a description of the error, the Additional Review procedures
performed and a statement of findings as to the root cause(s) of the
Material Error; 

(Relating to the Review of Additional Items)

q) 
       
     for each Additional Item reviewed, a description
of the review conducted; 

r) 
       
     for each Additional Item reviewed, the IRO s findings
based on its review; 

s) 
       
     for each Additional Item reviewed, the findings and
supporting rationale regarding any weaknesses in Lilly s systems,
processes, policies, procedures, and practices relating to the
Additional Item, if any; and 

t) 
       
     for each Additional Item reviewed, recommendations, if
any, for changes in Lilly s systems, processes, policies, and procedures that
would correct or address any weaknesses or deficiencies uncovered during the
review. 

Appendix B 
Eli Lilly, Inc. CIA

16 

</EX-10.17>

<EX-12>
 7
 c49534exv12.htm
 EX-12

EX-12 

EXHIBIT 12. STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS (LOSS) TO FIXED CHARGES

Eli Lilly and Company and Subsidiaries  
(Dollars in millions)

N/M   Not Meaningful 

1 
       
     Interest is based upon interest expense reported as such in the consolidated income
statement and does not include any interest related to unrecognized tax benefits, which is
included in income tax expense. 

2 
       
     For such ratio, earnings were $1,307.6 million less than
fixed charges. The loss
for the year ended December 31, 2008 included special charges related to the EDPA settlement of
$1,477.0 million and acquired in-process research and development expense of $4,685.4 million
associated with the ImClone acquisition, as described in greater detail in the notes to the
accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

1 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 8
 c49534exv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

Exhibit 21   List of Subsidiaries   Affiliates 

The following are the subsidiaries and affiliated corporations of the Company at December 31, 2008 
Certain subsidiaries have been omitted as they are not significant in the aggregate. 

State or Jurisdiction  

of Incorporation  

or Organization  

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY

Indiana 

Eli Lilly International Corporation

Indiana 

Lilly HK Finance I Limited

Hong Kong 

Lilly HK Finance II Limited

Hong Kong 

Eli Lilly Funding Partnership

Hong Kong 

Eli Lilly Funding II Partnership

Hong Kong 

Eli Lilly Holdings Ltd.

United Kingdom 

Eli Lilly Group Limited

United Kingdom 

Eli Lilly Group Pension Trustees Limited

United Kingdom 

Eli Lilly and Company Limited

United Kingdom 

Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Trustees Limited

Ireland 

Lilly Pharma Holding GmbH

Germany 

Lilly Deutschland GmbH

Germany 

Lilly Pharma Fertigung   Distribution GmbH

Germany 

Lilly Pharma Produktion GmbH   Co. KG

Germany 

Lilly Forschung GmbH

Germany 

Eli Lilly Ges.m.b.H.

Austria 

Lilly GmbH

Germany 

Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

ELCO Insurance Company Limited

Bermuda 

Lilly Ilac Ticaret Limited Sirketi

Turkey 

Eli Lilly Interamerica, Inc.

Indiana 

Eli Lilly do Brasil Limitada

Brazil 

Elanco Quimica Limitada

Brazil 

Darilor Sociedad Anonima

Uruguay 

Beirmirco Sociedad Anonima

Uruguay 

Eli Lilly Interamerica Inc., y Compania Limitada

Chile 

ELCO International Sales Corporation

U.S. Virgin Islands 

ICOS Corporation

Washington 

Lilly ICOS LLC

Delaware 

Page 1 of 4 

State or Jurisdiction  

of Incorporation  

or Organization  

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY (continued)

Eli Lilly Finance, S.A.

Switzerland 

Lilly del Mar, Inc.

British Virgin Islands 

ELIIC Holdings, Inc.

Delaware 

InnoCentive Innovations, Inc.

Delaware 

Lilly Global Services, Inc.

Indiana 

Applied Molecular Evolution, Inc.

Delaware 

Novasite Pharmaceuticals

Delaware 

AME Torreview LLC

Delaware 

Lilly USA, Ltd.

Indiana 

Lilly USA, LLC

Indiana 

Eli Lilly USA, Corp.

Indiana 

Eli Lilly USA, LLC

Indiana 

Eli Lilly Funding Ltd.

Hong Kong 

Dista, Inc.

Indiana 

Eli Lilly Holding Company Ltd.

United Kingdom 

SGX Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Delaware 

Prospect Genomics, Inc.

California 

Structural Genomics, Inc.

Delaware 

Eli Lilly Spain Holding ETVE, S.L.

Spain 

Eli Lilly Nederland Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

Eli Lilly and Company (Tawian), Inc.

Taiwan 

Eli Lilly de Centro America, S.A.

Guatemala 

Eli Lilly de Centro America, Sociedad Anonima

Costa Rica 

Eli Lilly y Compania de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Dista Mexicana, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Eli Lilly Industries, Inc.

Delaware 

del Sol Financial Services, Inc.

British Virgin Islands 

Lilly del Caribe, Inc.

Cayman Islands 

ELCO Dominicana, S.A.

Dominican Republic 

Eli Lilly Asia, Inc.

Delaware 

Eli Lilly Australia Pty. Limited

Australia 

Eli Lilly Australia Custodian Pty. Limited

Australia 

Eli Lilly and Company (N.Z.) Limited

New Zealand 

Eli Lilly (NZ) Staff Benefits Custodian Limited

New Zealand 

Page 2 of 4 

State or Jurisdiction  

of Incorporation  

or Organization  

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY (continued)

Eli Lilly de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Lilly Singapore Centre for Drug Discovery Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Hypnion, Inc.

Delaware 

Ivy Animal Health, Inc.

Delaware 

ELCO Management, Inc.

Delaware 

E L Management LLC

Delaware / Canada 

Eli Lilly Canada Inc.

Canada 

Lilly Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Lilly Holdings GmbH

Austria 

Eli Lilly S.A.

Switzerland 

ImClone LLC

Delaware 

ImClone Systems Corporation

Delaware 

EndoClone
Incorporated

Delaware 

ImClone Systems Germany GmbH

Germany 

ImClone GmbH

Switzerland 

Eli Lilly Export S.A.

Switzerland 

Eli Lilly (Suisse) S.A.

Switzerland 

Eli Lilly Vostok S.A., Geneva

Switzerland 

Eli Lilly Trading S.A.

Switzerland 

Lilly Cayman Holdings

Cayman Islands 

Eli Lilly
International Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.

China 

GEMS Services S.A.

Belgium 

Eli Lilly Suzhou Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd.

China 

Eli Lilly Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

Lilly France S.A.S.

France 

Eli Lilly Benelux, S.A.

Belgium 

Eli Lilly Italia S.p.A.

Italy 

Dista-Produtos Quimicos   Farmaceuticos, LDA

Portugal 

Lilly-Portugal, Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.

Portugal 

Vital Pharma Productos Farmaceuticos

Portugal 

Greenfield-Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.

Portugal 

Elanco-Valquimica, S.A.

Spain 

Dista, S.A.

Spain 

Spaly Bioquimica, S.A.

Spain 

Irisfarma S.A.

Spain 

Lilly S.A.

Spain 

Eli Lilly Nigeria Ltd.

Nigeria 

Eli Lilly CR s.r.o.

Czech Republic 

Eli Lilly Egypt, S.A.E.

Egypt 

ELCO for
Trade and Marketing, S.A.E.

Egypt 

Pharmaserve-Lilly S.A.C.I.

Greece 

Pharmabrand, S.A.I.C.

Greece 

PRAXICO Ltd.

Hungary 

Lilly Hungaria KFT

Hungary 

Page 3 of 4 

State or Jurisdiction  

of Incorporation  

or Organization  

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY (continued)

ELCO Management, Inc. (continued)

Lilly Holdings, LLC (continued)

Lilly Holdings GmbH (continued)

Eli Lilly S.A. (continued)

Eli Lilly Nederland B.V. (continued)

Eli Lilly (Philippines), Incorporated

Philippines 

Eli Lilly and Company (India) Pvt. Ltd.

India 

Eli Lilly Israel Ltd.

Israel 

Eli Lilly Japan K.K.

Japan 

Lilly Korea Ltd.

Korea 

Elanco Animal Health, Korea, Ltd.

Korea 

Eli Lilly (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Eli Lilly Pakistan (Pvt.) Ltd.

Pakistan 

Eli Lilly Polska Sp.z.o.o. (Ltd.)

Poland 

Eli Lilly (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Lilly-NUS Centre for Clinical Pharmacology

Singapore 

Eli Lilly (S.A.) (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

Eli Lilly y Compania de Venezuela, S.A.

Venezuela 

Dista Products   Compania de Venezuela, S.A.

Venezuela 

Eli Lilly Regional Operations GmbH

Austria 

Andean Technical Operations Center

Peru 

Eli Lilly Asian Operations, Limited

Hong Kong 

Dista Ilac Ticaret Ltd. Sti.

Turkey 

Eli Lilly Slovakia s.r.o.

Slovakia 

Eli Lilly Romania SRL

Romania 

UAB Eli Lilly Lietuva

Lithuania 

Eli Lilly Hrvatska d.o.o.

Croatia 

Lilly Pharma Ltd.

Russia 

PT. Eli Lilly Indonesia

Indonesia 

Eli Lilly European Clinical Trial Services S.A.

Belgium 

Eli Lilly farmacevtska druzba, d.o.o.

Slovenia 

Elanco Trustees Limited

Ireland 

Kinsale Financial Services, Ltd.

Ireland 

ELGO Insurance Company Limited

Bermuda 

Eli Lilly Services, Inc.

British Virgin Islands 

Eli Lilly
(B.V.I.) Holding Company Unlimited  

British Virgin Islands 

Eli Lilly Danmark A/S

Denmark 

OY Eli Lilly Finland AB

Finland 

Eli Lilly Norge A.S.

Norway 

Eli Lilly Sweden AB

Sweden 

Page 4 of 4 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 c49534exv23.htm
 EX-23

exv23 

EXHIBIT 23

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements (Form S-3 Nos.
33-58466, 333-35248, 333-106478; and Form S-8 Nos. 33-37341, 33-50783, 33-56141, 333-02021,
333-62015, 333-66113, 333-90397, 333-70308, 333-104057) of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries
and in the related Prospectuses of our reports dated February 16, 2009, with respect to (1) the
consolidated financial statements of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries and (2) the
effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Eli Lilly and Company and
subsidiaries, included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2008.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

Indianapolis, Indiana 
February 26, 2009

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 c49534exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

EX-31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 
       
     Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D., Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D., chairman of the board and chief executive officer, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Eli Lilly and Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a. 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b. 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c. 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a. 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b. 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:
February 27, 2009

By:

/s/ John C. Lechleiter  

John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D. 

Chairman of the Board and 

Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 c49534exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

EX-31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 
       
     Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Derica W. Rice, Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Derica W. Rice, senior vice president and chief financial officer, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Eli Lilly and Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a. 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b. 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

c. 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

d. 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a. 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

b. 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:
February 27, 2009

By:

/s/ Derica W. Rice  

Derica W. Rice 

Senior Vice President 

and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 12
 c49534exv32.htm
 EX-32

EX-32 

EXHIBIT 32     Section 1350 Certification

Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section
1350, chapter 63 of title 18, United States Code), each of the undersigned officers of Eli
Lilly and Company, an Indiana corporation (the  Company ), does hereby certify that, to the
best of his knowledge:

The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 (the  Form 10-K ) of the
Company fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934 and information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all
material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

Date   February 27, 2009 

/s/ John C. Lechleiter  

John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D.

Chairman of the Board, President and 

Chief Executive Officer 

Date   February 27, 2009 

/s/ Derica W. Rice  

Derica W. Rice 

Senior Vice President and 

Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-32>

