<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100222_10-K_edgar_data_59478_0000950123-10-014958_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>4676490</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>494291</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>264325</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>927703</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>1297810</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1379350</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>56</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-10-014958.hdr.sgml : 20100222
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100222124527
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-10-014958
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		24
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100222
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100222

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			LILLY ELI & CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000059478
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				350470950
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			IN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06351
		FILM NUMBER:		10621865

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		LILLY CORPORATE CTR
		STREET 2:		DROP CODE 1112
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46285
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3172762000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		LILLY CORPORATE CENTER
		STREET 2:		DROP CODE 1112
		CITY:			INDIANAPOLIS
		STATE:			IN
		ZIP:			46285

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 ClaZY6W+JzY9U20p92hvqPpeWKCPH/55mI3RVvUQYZmyM/b6tj2oQFKuk4BVMzh3
 itgUhEvfOwKRn1WMVeCiIg==

 0000950123-10-014958.txt : 20100222

10-K
 1
 c55339ke10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

United States 
    Securities and Exchange Commission  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

Annual report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 

Commission file number
     001-06351  

Eli Lilly and
    Company  

Lilly Corporate
    Center, Indianapolis, Indiana 46285

(317) 276-2000 

Securities
    registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Securities
    registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
    None  

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Act. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
    requirements for the past
    90 days. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
    that the Registrant was required to submit and post such
    files. Yes     No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of Registrant s knowledge, in the definitive proxy
    statement incorporated by reference in Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.    

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer   

Accelerated
    filer   

Non-accelerated
    filer   

Smaller reporting
    company    

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company
    as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act: Yes     No   

Aggregate market value of the common equity held by
    non-affiliates computed by reference to the price at which the
    common equity was last sold as of the last business day of the
    Registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
    (Common Stock): approximately $35,217,500,000

Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of
    February 12, 2010: 1,153,145,432

Portions of the Registrant s Proxy Statement to be filed on
    or about March 8, 2010 have been incorporated by reference
    into Part III of this report.

Part I  

Item 1.     

Business   

Eli Lilly and Company (the  Company  or
     Registrant ) was incorporated in 1901 in Indiana to
    succeed to the drug manufacturing business founded in
    Indianapolis, Indiana, in 1876 by Colonel Eli Lilly. We
    discover, develop, manufacture, and sell products in one
    significant business segment pharmaceutical products. We
    also have an animal health business segment, whose operations
    are not material to our financial statements.

Our mission is to make medicines that help people live longer,
    healthier, more active lives. Our strategy is to create value
    for all our stakeholders by accelerating the flow of innovative
    new medicines that provide improved outcomes for individual
    patients. Most of the products we sell today were discovered or
    developed by our own scientists, and our success depends to a
    great extent on our ability to continue to discover, develop,
    and bring to market innovative new medicines.

We manufacture and distribute our products through facilities in
    the United States, Puerto Rico, and 17 other countries. Our
    products are sold in approximately 128 countries.

Products  

Our products include:

Neuroscience products  ,  our largest-selling product
    group, including:

Zyprexa     ,

     for the treatment of schizophrenia, acute mixed or manic
    episodes associated with bipolar I disorder, and bipolar
    maintenance

Zyprexa
    Relprevv   tm  

    ( Zypadhera   tm  

    in the European Union), a long-acting intramuscular injection
    formulation of Zyprexa

Cymbalta    ,

    for the treatment of major depressive disorder, diabetic
    peripheral neuropathic pain, generalized anxiety disorder, and
    in the United States for the management of fibromyalgia

Strattera     ,

     for the treatment of attention-deficit hyperactivity
    disorder in children, adolescents, and in the United States in
    adults

Prozac     ,

     for the treatment of major depressive disorder,
    obsessive-compulsive disorder, bulimia nervosa, and panic
    disorder

Symbyax     ,

     for the treatment of bipolar depression and
    treatment-resistant depression

Endocrinology products , including:

Humalog    ,

     Humalog Mix
    75/25  tm  ,

     and  Humalog Mix
    50/50   tm  ,

    for the treatment of diabetes

Humulin     ,

     for the treatment of diabetes

Byetta    ,

    for the treatment of type 2 diabetes

Actos     ,

     for the treatment of type 2 diabetes

Evista     ,

     for the prevention and treatment of osteoporosis in
    postmenopausal women and for the reduction of the risk of
    invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women with osteoporosis
    and postmenopausal women at high risk for invasive breast cancer

Forteo     ,

     for the treatment of osteoporosis in postmenopausal women
    and men at high risk for fracture and for glucocorticoid-induced
    osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and men

Humatrope     ,

     for the treatment of human growth hormone deficiency and
    certain pediatric growth conditions

Oncology products  ,  including:

Alimta     ,

     for the first-line treatment, in combination with another
    agent, of non-small cell lung cancer for patients with
    non-squamous histology; for the second-line treatment of
    non-small cell lung cancer; and in combination with another
    agent, for the treatment of malignant pleural mesothelioma

Gemzar     ,

     for the treatment of pancreatic cancer; in combination with
    other agents, for the treatment of metastatic breast cancer,
    non-small cell lung cancer, and advanced or recurrent ovarian
    cancer; and in the European Union for the treatment of bladder
    cancer

Erbitux     ,

     indicated both as a single agent and with another
    chemotherapy agent for the treatment of certain types of
    colorectal cancers; and as a single agent or in combination with
    radiation therapy for the treatment of certain types of head and
    neck cancers

Cardiovascular products , including:

Cialis     ,

     for the treatment of erectile dysfunction

2   

Effient     ,

     for the reduction of thrombotic cardiovascular events
    (including stent thrombosis) in patients with acute coronary
    syndrome who are managed with an artery-opening procedure known
    as percutaneous coronary intervention ( PCI ),
    including patients undergoing angioplasty, atherectomy, or stent
    placement

ReoPro     ,

     for use as an adjunct to PCI

Xigris     ,

     for the treatment of adults with severe sepsis at high risk
    of death

Animal health products , including:

Rumensin     ,

     a cattle feed additive that improves feed efficiency and
    growth and also controls and prevents coccidiosis

Tylan     ,

     an antibiotic used to control certain diseases in cattle,
    swine, and poultry

Micotil    ,

     Pulmotil     ,

     and  Pulmotil
    AC     ,

     antibiotics used to treat respiratory disease in cattle,
    swine, and poultry, respectively

Paylean    

    and
     Optaflexx     ,

     leanness and performance enhancers for swine and cattle,
    respectively

Posilac    ,

    a protein supplement to improve milk productivity in dairy cows.
    We acquired the worldwide rights to Posilac from Monsanto
    Company in August 2008.

Coban     ,

    Monteban     ,

     and
     Maxiban    ,

    anticoccidial agents for use in poultry

Apralan    ,

    an antibiotic used to control enteric infections in calves and
    swine

Surmax    

    (sold as
     Maxus    

    in some countries), a performance enhancer for swine and poultry

Elector    ,

    a parasiticide for use on cattle and premises

Two products for dogs:
     Comfortis    ,

    the first FDA-approved, chewable tablet that kills fleas and
    prevents flea infestations on dogs; and
     Reconcile    ,

    for treatment of canine separation anxiety in conjunction with
    behavior modification training

Other pharmaceuticals , including:

Vancocin    

    HCl, used primarily to treat staphylococcal infections

Ceclor   tm   ,

     for the treatment of a wide range of bacterial infections.

Marketing  

We sell most of our products worldwide. We adapt our marketing
    methods and product emphasis in various countries to meet local
    needs.

Pharmaceuticals United
    States  

In the United States, we distribute pharmaceutical products
    principally through independent wholesale distributors, with
    some sales directly to pharmacies. Our marketing policy is
    designed to assure that products and relevant medical
    information are immediately available to physicians, pharmacies,
    hospitals, public and private payers, and appropriate health
    care professionals. Three wholesale distributors in the United
    States AmerisourceBergen Corporation, McKesson Corporation,
    and Cardinal Health, Inc. each accounted for between 12
    percent and 17 percent of our worldwide consolidated net
    sales in 2009. No other distributor accounted for more than
    10 percent of consolidated net sales. We also sell
    pharmaceutical products directly to the United States government
    and other manufacturers, but those sales are not material.

We promote our major pharmaceutical products in the United
    States through sales representatives who call upon physicians
    and other health care professionals. We advertise in medical
    journals, distribute literature and samples of certain products
    to physicians, and exhibit at medical meetings. In addition, we
    advertise certain products directly to consumers in the United
    States and we maintain web sites with information about all our
    major products. Divisions of our sales force are assigned to
    therapeutic areas, such as neuroscience, diabetes, osteoporosis,
    and oncology. We supplement our employee sales force with
    contract sales organizations as appropriate to leverage our own
    resources and the strengths of our partners in various markets.

Large purchasers of pharmaceuticals, such as managed-care
    groups, government agencies, and long-term care institutions,
    account for a significant portion of total pharmaceutical
    purchases in the United States. We maintain special business
    groups to service wholesalers, managed-care organizations,
    government and long-term care institutions, hospitals, and
    certain retail pharmacies. In response to competitive pressures,
    we have entered into arrangements with these organizations which
    provide for discounts or rebates on one or more Lilly products.

Pharmaceuticals Outside
    the United States  

Outside the United States, we promote our pharmaceutical
    products primarily through sales representatives. While the
    products marketed vary from country to country, neuroscience
    products constitute the largest single group in total sales.
    Distribution patterns vary from country to country. In most
    countries,

3   

we maintain our own sales organizations, but in some countries
    we market our products through independent distributors.

Pharmaceutical
    Marketing Collaborations  

We market certain of our significant products in collaboration
    with other pharmaceutical companies:

Under an arrangement that ended in 2009, Cymbalta was
    co-promoted in the United States by Quintiles Transnational
    Corp. Cymbalta is co-marketed in Japan by Shionogi  
    Co. Ltd. and is co-promoted or co-marketed in most other major
    countries outside the U.S. by Boehringer Ingelheim GmbH.

Evista is marketed in major European markets by Daiichi Sankyo
    Europe GmbH, a subsidiary of Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd. of Japan.

We co-promote Byetta with Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in the
    United States and Puerto Rico, and we have exclusive marketing
    rights in other territories.

Erbitux is marketed in North America by Bristol-Myers Squibb. We
    co-promote Erbitux in North America. Outside North America,
    Erbitux is commercialized by Merck KGaA. We receive royalties
    from Bristol-Myers Squibb and Merck KGaA.

Effient is co-promoted with us by Daiichi Sankyo in the United
    States, major European markets, Brazil, Mexico, China, and
    several other Asian countries. Daiichi Sanko retains sole
    marketing rights in Japan, and we retain sole marketing rights
    in Canada, Australia, Russia, and certain other countries.

Animal Health
    Products  

Our Elanco animal health business unit employs field salespeople
    throughout the United States. Elanco also has an extensive sales
    force outside the United States. Elanco sells its products
    primarily to wholesale distributors.

Competition  

Our pharmaceutical products compete with products manufactured
    by many other companies in highly competitive markets throughout
    the world. Our animal health products compete on a worldwide
    basis with products of animal health care companies as well as
    pharmaceutical, chemical, and other companies that operate
    animal health divisions or subsidiaries.

Important competitive factors include safety, effectiveness, and
    ease of use of our products; price and demonstrated
    cost-effectiveness; marketing effectiveness; and research and
    development of new products and processes. Most new products
    that we introduce must compete with other products already on
    the market or products that are later developed by competitors.
    If competitors introduce new products or delivery systems with
    therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to
    progressive price reductions, decreased volume of sales, or
    both. Manufacturers of generic pharmaceuticals invest far less
    in research and development than research-based pharmaceutical
    companies and therefore can price their products much lower than
    branded products. Accordingly, when a branded pharmaceutical
    loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price
    competition from generic forms of the product. In many countries
    outside the United States, intellectual property protection is
    weak or nonexistent and we must compete with generic or
    counterfeit versions of our products. Increasingly, to obtain
    favorable reimbursement and formulary positioning with
    government payers, managed care and pharmacy benefits management
    organizations, we must demonstrate that our products offer not
    only medical benefits but also cost advantages as compared with
    other forms of care.

We believe our long-term competitive position depends upon our
    success in discovering and developing (either alone or in
    collaboration with others) innovative, cost-effective medicines
    that provide improved outcomes to individual patients and
    deliver value to payers, together with our ability to
    continuously improve the productivity of our discovery,
    development, manufacturing, marketing, and support operations in
    a highly competitive environment. There can be no assurance that
    our research and development efforts will result in commercially
    successful products or that our products or processes will not
    become uncompetitive from time to time as a result of products
    or processes developed by our competitors.

Patents,
    Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Rights  

Overview  

Intellectual property protection is critical to our ability to
    successfully commercialize our life sciences innovations and
    invest in the search for new medicines. We own, have applied
    for, or are licensed under, a large number of patents in the
    United States and many other countries relating to products,
    product uses, formulations, and manufacturing processes. There
    is no assurance that the patents we are seeking will be granted
    or that the patents we hold would be found valid and enforceable
    if challenged. Moreover, patents relating to particular
    products, uses, formulations, or processes do not preclude other
    manufacturers

4   

from employing alternative processes or from marketing
    alternative products or formulations that might successfully
    compete with our patented products. In addition, from time to
    time, competitors or other third parties assert claims that our
    activities infringe patents or other intellectual property
    rights held by them, or allege a third-party right of ownership
    in our existing intellectual property.

Outside the United States, the adequacy and effectiveness of
    intellectual property protection for pharmaceuticals varies
    widely. Under the Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property
    Agreement (TRIPs) administered by the World Trade Organization
    (WTO), over 140 countries have now agreed to provide
    non-discriminatory protection for most pharmaceutical inventions
    and to assure that adequate and effective rights are available
    to all patent owners. Because of TRIPs transition provisions,
    dispute resolution mechanisms, and substantive limitations, it
    is difficult to assess when and how much, if at all, we will
    benefit commercially from this protection.

When a product patent expires, the patent holder often loses
    effective market exclusivity for the product. This can result in
    a severe and rapid decline in sales of the formerly patented
    product, particularly in the United States. However, in some
    cases the innovator company may achieve exclusivity beyond the
    expiry of the product patent through manufacturing trade
    secrets, later-expiring patents on methods of use or
    formulations, or data-based exclusivity that may be available
    under pharmaceutical regulatory laws.

Some of our current products, including Erbitux, Forteo, ReoPro,
    and Xigris, and many of the potential products in our research
    pipeline, are biological products ( biologics ).
    Currently, generic versions of biologics cannot be approved
    under U.S. law. Competitors seeking approval of biologics
    must file their own safety and efficacy data, and address the
    challenges of biologics manufacturing, which typically involves
    more complex and costly processes than those of traditional
    pharmaceutical operations. However, certain health care reform
    bills recently debated in Congress included provisions that
    would create a regulatory pathway to allow generic biologics.
    Under these proposals, the innovator would receive data-based
    exclusivity for a period of years following regulatory approval
    for marketing. Even in the absence of new legislation, the
    U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is taking steps
    toward allowing generic versions of certain biologics.

Our Intellectual
    Property Portfolio  

We consider intellectual property protection for certain
    products, processes, and uses particularly those products
    discussed below to be important to our operations. For many
    of our products, in addition to the compound patent we hold
    other patents on manufacturing processes, formulations, or uses
    that may extend exclusivity beyond the expiration of the product
    patent.

The most relevant U.S. patent protection, together with
    expected expiration, for our major marketed products is as
    follows:

Alimta  is protected by a compound patent (2016).

Byetta  is protected by a patent covering its use in
    treating type 2 diabetes (2017).

Cialis  is protected by compound and use patents (2017).

Cymbalta  is protected by a compound patent (2013).

Effient  is protected by a compound patent (2017).

Evista  is protected by patents on the treatment and
    prevention of osteoporosis (2012 and 2014), and its dosage form
    (2017) 1 .

    Evista for use in breast cancer risk reduction is protected by
    orphan drug exclusivity (2014).

Gemzar  is protected by a compound patent (November
    2010) and a patent covering its antineoplastic use
    (2013) 1 .

Humalog  is protected by a compound patent (2013).

Strattera  is protected by a patent covering its use in
    treating attention deficit-hyperactivity disorder (2016).

Zyprexa  is protected by a compound patent (October 2011).

1  

The Evista dosage form patent and Gemzar use patent have been
    held invalid by federal district courts, and we have appealed
    those decisions. For more information, see Item 7,
     Management s Discussion and Analysis Legal and
    Regulatory Matters. 

Worldwide, we sell all of our major products under trademarks
    that we consider in the aggregate to be important to our
    operations. Trademark protection varies throughout the world,
    with protection continuing in some countries as long as the mark
    is used, and in other countries as long as it is registered.
    Registrations are normally for fixed but renewable terms.

5   

Patent
    Licenses  

Most of our important products were discovered in our own
    laboratories and are not subject to significant license
    agreements. Two of our larger products, Cialis and Alimta, are
    subject to patent assignments or licenses granted to us by
    others.

The compound patent for Cialis is the subject of a license
    agreement with Glaxo SmithKline which assigns to us exclusively
    all rights in the compound. The agreement calls for royalties of
    a single-digit percentage of net sales. The agreement is not
    subject to termination by Glaxo for any reason other than a
    material breach by Lilly of the royalty obligation, after a
    substantial cure period.

The compound patent for Alimta is the subject of a license
    agreement with Princeton University, granting us an irrevocable
    exclusive worldwide license to the compound patents for the
    lives of the patents in the respective territories. The
    agreement calls for royalties of a single-digit percentage of
    net sales. The agreement is not subject to termination by
    Princeton for any reason other than a material breach by Lilly
    of the royalty obligation, after a substantial cure period.
    Alimta is also the subject of a worldwide, nonexclusive license
    to certain compound and process patents owned by Takeda
    Pharmaceutical Company Limited. The agreement calls for
    royalties of a single-digit percentage of net sales in countries
    covered by a relevant patent. The agreement is subject to
    termination for material default and failure to cure by Lilly
    and in the event that Lilly becomes bankrupt or insolvent.

Patent
    Challenges  

In the United States, the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term
    Restoration Act of 1984, commonly known as
     Hatch-Waxman,  made a complex set of changes to both
    patent and new-drug-approval laws. Before Hatch-Waxman, no drug
    could be approved without providing the FDA complete safety and
    efficacy studies,  i.e. , a complete New Drug Application
    (NDA). Hatch-Waxman authorizes the FDA to approve generic
    versions of innovative pharmaceuticals (other than biologics)
    without such information by filing an Abbreviated New Drug
    Application (ANDA). In an ANDA, the generic manufacturer must
    demonstrate only  bioequivalence  between the generic
    version and the NDA-approved drug not safety and efficacy.

Absent a patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an ANDA until
    after the innovator s patents expire. However, after the
    innovator has marketed its product for four years, a generic
    manufacturer may file an ANDA alleging that one or more of the
    patents listed in the innovator s NDA are invalid or not
    infringed. This allegation is commonly known as a
     Paragraph IV certification.  The innovator must
    then file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect its
    patents. The FDA is then prohibited from approving the generic
    company s application for a 30- to
     42-month 
    period (which can be shortened or extended by the trial court
    judge hearing the patent challenge). If one or more of the
    NDA-listed patents are challenged, the first filer of a
    Paragraph IV certification may be entitled to a
     180-day 
    period of market exclusivity over all other generic
    manufacturers.

In recent years, generic manufacturers have used
    Paragraph IV certifications extensively to challenge
    patents on a wide array of innovative pharmaceuticals, and we
    expect this trend to continue. In addition, generic companies
    have shown an increasing willingness to launch  at
    risk,  i.e., after receiving ANDA approval but before final
    resolution of their patent challenge. We are currently in
    litigation with numerous generic manufacturers arising from
    their Paragraph IV certifications on Alimta, Cymbalta,
    Evista, Gemzar, and Strattera. For more information on this
    litigation, see Item 7,  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis Legal and Regulatory Matters. 

Outside the United States, the legal doctrines and processes by
    which pharmaceutical patents can be challenged vary widely. In
    recent years, we have experienced an increase in patent
    challenges from generic manufacturers in many countries outside
    the United States, and we expect this trend to continue. For
    more information on significant patent challenges outside the
    United States, see Item 7,  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis Legal and Regulatory Matters. 

Government
    Regulation  

Regulation of Our
    Operations  

Our operations are regulated extensively by numerous national,
    state, and local agencies. The lengthy process of laboratory and
    clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing development, and
    regulatory review necessary for governmental approvals is
    extremely costly and can significantly delay product
    introductions. Promotion, marketing, manufacturing, and
    distribution of pharmaceutical and animal health products are
    extensively regulated in all major world markets. We are
    required to conduct extensive post-marketing surveillance of the
    safety of the products we sell. In addition, our operations are
    subject to complex federal, state, local, and foreign laws and
    regulations concerning the environment, occupational health and
    safety, and privacy. The laws and regulations affecting the
    manufacture and sale of current products and the discovery,
    development, and introduction of new products will continue to
    require substantial scientific and technical effort, time, and
    expense and significant capital investment.

6   

Of particular importance is the FDA in the United States.
    Pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, the FDA
    has jurisdiction over all of our products and administers
    requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness,
    manufacturing, quality control, distribution, labeling,
    marketing, advertising, dissemination of information, and
    post-marketing surveillance of our pharmaceutical products. The
    FDA, along with the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA),
    also regulates our animal health products. The
    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency also regulates some
    animal health products. In 2007, Congress passed the Food and
    Drug Administration Amendments Act (FDAAA), which imposes
    additional requirements for drug development and
    commercialization and provides the FDA with further authorities
    and resources, particularly in the area of drug safety.

The FDA extensively regulates all aspects of manufacturing
    quality under its current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP)
    regulations. In recent years, we have made, and we continue to
    make, substantial investments of capital and operating expenses
    to implement comprehensive, company-wide improvements in our
    manufacturing, product and process development, and quality
    operations to ensure sustained cGMP compliance. However, in the
    event we fail to adhere to cGMP requirements in the future, we
    could be subject to interruptions in production, fines and
    penalties, and delays in new product approvals.

Outside the United States, our products and operations are
    subject to similar regulatory requirements, notably by the
    European Medicines Agency (EMA) in the European Union and the
    Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) in Japan. Specific
    regulatory requirements vary from country to country.

The marketing, promotional, and pricing practices of
    pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner in which
    manufacturers interact with purchasers and prescribers, are
    subject to various other federal and state laws, including the
    federal anti-kickback statute and the False Claims Act and state
    laws governing kickbacks, false claims, unfair trade practices,
    and consumer protection. These laws are administered by, among
    others, the Department of Justice, the Office of Inspector
    General of the Department of Health and Human Services, the
    Federal Trade Commission, the Office of Personnel Management and
    state attorneys general. Over the past several years, the FDA,
    the Department of Justice, and many of these other agencies have
    increased their enforcement activities with respect to
    pharmaceutical companies and increased the inter-agency
    coordination of enforcement activities. Over this period,
    several claims brought by these agencies against Lilly and other
    companies under these and other laws have resulted in corporate
    criminal sanctions and very substantial civil settlements. See
    Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  and Item 7,
     Management s Discussion and Analysis Legal and
    Regulatory Matters,  for information about currently
    pending and recently resolved marketing and promotional
    practices investigations involving Lilly, including information
    regarding a Corporate Integrity Agreement entered into by Lilly
    in connection with the resolution of a U.S. federal
    marketing practices investigation and certain related state
    investigations involving Zyprexa.

The U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ( FCPA )
    prohibits certain individuals and entities, including
    U.S. publicly traded companies, from promising, offering,
    or giving anything of value to foreign officials with the
    corrupt intent of influencing the foreign official for the
    purpose of helping the company obtain or retain business or gain
    any improper advantage. The FCPA also imposes specific
    recordkeeping and internal controls requirements on
    U.S. publicly traded companies. As noted above, outside the
    U.S., our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves
    significant interaction with foreign officials. Additionally, in
    many countries outside the U.S., the health care providers who
    prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by the government and the
    purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities;
    therefore, our payments to these prescribers and purchasers are
    subject to regulation under the FCPA. Recently the
    U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and the
    Department of Justice have increased their FCPA enforcement
    activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies. See
    Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  for information
    about a currently pending investigation involving our operations
    in several countries.

It is possible that we could become subject to additional
    administrative and legal proceedings and actions, which could
    include claims for civil penalties (including treble damages
    under the False Claims Act), criminal sanctions, and
    administrative remedies, including exclusion from federal health
    care programs. It is possible that an adverse outcome in pending
    or future actions could have a material adverse impact on our
    consolidated results of operations, liquidity, and financial
    position.

Regulations
    Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing and Reimbursement  

In the United States, we are required to provide rebates to
    state governments on their purchases of certain of our products
    under state Medicaid programs. Additional cost containment
    measures have been adopted or proposed by federal, state, and
    local government entities that provide or pay for health care.
    In most international markets, we operate in an environment of
    government-mandated cost containment programs, which may include
    price controls, reference pricing, discounts and rebates,
    restrictions on physician prescription levels, restrictions on
    reimbursement, compulsory licenses, health economic assessments,
    and generic substitution.

In the U.S., the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and
    Modernization Act of 2003 (MMA) provides a prescription drug
    benefit for seniors under the Medicare program, known as
    Medicare Part D. Pricing to manufacturers for drugs covered
    by the program is currently established through competitive
    negotiations

7   

between the manufacturers and private payers. In addition,
    comprehensive health care reform was the subject of recent
    intense debate in Congress, and we expect the health care reform
    debate to continue. Although it is difficult to predict the
    direction of the debate, the ultimate outcome could have a
    material adverse impact on our business. See Item 7,
     Management s Discussion and Analysis Executive
    Overview Legal, Regulatory, and Other Matters,  for
    more discussion of MMA and U.S. health care reform. At the
    state level, budget pressures are causing various states to
    impose cost-control measures such as higher rebates and more
    restrictive formularies.

International operations are also generally subject to extensive
    price and market regulations, and there are many proposals for
    additional cost-containment measures, including proposals that
    would directly or indirectly impose additional price controls,
    limit access to or reimbursement for our products, or reduce the
    value of our intellectual property protection.

We cannot predict the extent to which our business may be
    affected by these or other potential future legislative or
    regulatory developments. However, we expect that pressures on
    pharmaceutical pricing will become more severe.

Research
    and Development  

Our commitment to research and development dates back more than
    100 years. Our research and development activities are
    responsible for the discovery and development of most of the
    products we offer today. We invest heavily in research and
    development because we believe it is critical to our long-term
    competitiveness. At the end of 2009, we employed approximately
    7,600 people in pharmaceutical and animal health research
    and development activities, including a substantial number of
    physicians, scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees,
    and highly skilled technical personnel. Our research and
    development expenses were $3.49 billion in 2007,
    $3.84 billion in 2008, and $4.33 billion in 2009.

Our pharmaceutical research and development focuses on four
    therapeutic categories: central nervous system and related
    diseases; endocrine diseases, including diabetes, obesity, and
    musculoskeletal disorders; cancer; and cardiovascular diseases.
    However, we remain opportunistic, selectively pursuing promising
    leads in other therapeutic areas. We are actively engaged in a
    strong biotechnology research program, including therapeutic
    proteins, antibodies, and antisense oligonucleotides as well as
    genomics (the development of therapeutics through identification
    of disease-causing genes and their cellular function),
    biomarkers, and targeted therapeutics. In addition to
    discovering and developing new chemical entities, we seek to
    expand the value of existing products through new uses,
    formulations and therapeutic approaches that provide additional
    value to patients. We also conduct research in animal health,
    including animal nutrition and physiology, control of parasites,
    and veterinary medicine (both food and companion animal).

To supplement our internal efforts, we collaborate with others,
    including educational institutions and research-based
    pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, and we contract with
    others for the performance of research in their facilities. We
    use the services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools, and
    other research organizations worldwide to conduct clinical
    trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of our
    pharmaceutical products. We actively seek out investments in
    external research and technologies that hold the promise to
    complement and strengthen our own research efforts. These
    investments can take many forms, including licensing
    arrangements, co-development and co-marketing agreements,
    co-promotion arrangements, joint ventures, and acquisitions.

Drug development is time-consuming, expensive, and risky. On
    average, only one out of many thousands of chemical compounds
    discovered by researchers proves to be both medically effective
    and safe enough to become an approved medicine. The process from
    discovery to regulatory approval can take 12 to 15 years or
    longer. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process,
    and even late-stage drug candidates sometimes fail to receive
    regulatory approval or achieve commercial success. Even after
    approval and launch of a product, we expend considerable
    resources on post-marketing surveillance and clinical studies.
    We believe our investments in research, both internally and in
    collaboration with others, have been rewarded by the number of
    new compounds and new indications for existing compounds that we
    have in all stages of development. At present we have over 60
    drug candidates across all stages of human testing. Among our
    new investigational compounds in the later stages of human
    testing are potential therapies for diabetes, cancers, and
    Alzheimer s disease. We are studying many other drug
    candidates in the earlier stages of development, including
    compounds targeting cancers, diabetes, schizophrenia, obesity,
    depression, sleep disorders, pain, alcohol dependence,
    musculoskeletal disorders, atherosclerosis, and autoimmune
    disorders including rheumatoid arthritis. We are also developing
    new uses, formulations, or delivery methods for many of these
    compounds as well as our currently marketed products, such as
    Alimta, Byetta, Cialis, Cymbalta, Effient, Erbitux, Forteo,
    Gemzar, and Humalog.

Raw
    Materials and Product Supply  

Most of the principal materials we use in our manufacturing
    operations are available from more than one source. However, we
    obtain certain raw materials principally from only one source.
    In addition, Byetta is manufactured by third-party suppliers to
    Amylin. In the event one of these suppliers was unable to
    provide the materials or product, we generally have sufficient
    inventory to supply the market until an alternative

8   

source of supply can be implemented. However, in the event of an
    extended failure of a supplier, it is possible that we could
    experience an interruption in supply until we established new
    sources or, in some cases, implemented alternative processes.

Our primary bulk manufacturing occurs at five sites in the
    United States as well as locations in Ireland, Puerto Rico, and
    the United Kingdom. Finishing operations, including labeling and
    packaging, take place at a number of sites throughout the world.
    Effective in January 2010, we sold one of our U.S. sites,
    Tippecanoe Laboratories in West Lafayette, Indiana, to an
    affiliate of Evonik Industries AG, and entered into a nine-year
    supply and services agreement whereby Evonik will manufacture
    final and intermediate step active pharmaceutical ingredients
    for certain Lilly human and animal health products.

We manage our supply chain (including our own facilities,
    contracted arrangements, and inventory) in a way that should
    allow us to meet all expected product demand while maintaining
    flexibility to reallocate manufacturing capacity to improve
    efficiency and respond to changes in supply and demand. However,
    pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly
    regulated, and vary widely from product to product. Shifting or
    adding manufacturing capacity can be a very lengthy process
    requiring significant capital expenditures and regulatory
    approvals. Accordingly, if we were to experience extended plant
    shutdowns at one of our own facilities, extended failure of a
    contract supplier, or extraordinary unplanned increases in
    demand, we could experience an interruption in supply of certain
    products or product shortages until production could be resumed
    or expanded.

Quality
    Assurance  

Our success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in
    the quality of our products and in the integrity of the data
    that support their safety and effectiveness. Product quality
    arises from a total commitment to quality in all parts of our
    operations, including research and development, purchasing,
    facilities planning, manufacturing, and distribution. We have
    implemented quality-assurance procedures relating to the quality
    and integrity of scientific information and production processes.

Control of production processes involves rigid specifications
    for ingredients, equipment, facilities, manufacturing methods,
    packaging materials, and labeling. We perform tests at various
    stages of production processes and on the final product to
    assure that the product meets all regulatory requirements and
    our standards. These tests may involve chemical and physical
    chemical analyses, microbiological testing, testing in animals,
    or a combination. Additional assurance of quality is provided by
    a corporate quality-assurance group that monitors existing
    pharmaceutical and animal health manufacturing procedures and
    systems in the parent company, subsidiaries and affiliates, and
    third-party suppliers.

Executive
    Officers of the Company  

The following table sets forth certain information regarding our
    executive officers. Except as otherwise noted, all executive
    officers have been employed by the Company in executive
    positions during the last five years.

The term of office for each executive officer expires on the
    date of the annual meeting of the Board of Directors, to be held
    on April 19, 2010, or on the date his or her successor is
    chosen and qualified. No director or executive officer has a
     family relationship  with any other director or
    executive officer of the Company, as that term is defined for
    purposes of this disclosure requirement. There is no
    understanding between any executive officer and any other person
    pursuant to which the executive officer was selected.

Name 

Age 

Offices and Business Experience 

John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D. 

56

Chairman (since January 2009), President (since October 2005),
    Chief Executive Officer (since April 2008) and a Director (since
    October 2005)

Robert A. Armitage

61

Senior Vice President and General Counsel (since January 2003)

Bryce D. Carmine

58

Executive Vice President and President, Lilly Bio-Medicines
    (since November 2009)

Enrique A. Conterno

43

Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Diabetes (since
    November 2009)

Frank M. Deane, Ph.D. 

60

President, Manufacturing Operations (since June 2007)

9   

Name 

Age 

Offices and Business Experience 

John H. Johnson

52

Senior Vice President and President, Lilly Oncology (since
    November 2009). Mr. Johnson was chief executive officer and a
    director of ImClone Systems Inc. from 2007 until its acquisition
    by Lilly in November 2008.  From 2002 to 2007 he served in
    various executive positions at Johnson   Johnson, including
    Group Chairman of that company s worldwide
    biopharmaceuticals unit from 2005 to 2007.  He first joined
    Johnson   Johnson in 1988.  In 2000, Mr. Johnson left
    J J to serve as chief executive officer of Parkstone
    Medical Information Systems, a start-up company that developed a
    hand-held device for doctors to write prescriptions.  That
    company filed for bankruptcy protection in 2001.

Jan M. Lundberg, Ph.D. 

56

Executive Vice President, Science and Technology and President,
    Lilly Research Laboratories (since January 2010). From 2002
    until he joined Lilly in January 2010, Dr. Lundberg was
    executive vice president and head of discovery research at
    AstraZeneca.

Susan Mahony, Ph.D. 

45

Senior Vice President, Human Resources (since May 2009)

Anne Nobles

53

Senior Vice President, Enterprise Risk Management (since April
    2009) and Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer (since June 2007)

Steven M. Paul, M.D. 

59

Executive Vice President, Science and Technology and President,
    Lilly Research Laboratories (since July 2003; retiring February
    28, 2010)

Barton R. Peterson

51

Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs and Communications
    (since June 2009). Mr. Peterson served as mayor of
    Indianapolis, Indiana from 2000 to 2007. From 2008 to 2009, he
    was managing director at Strategic Capital Partners, LLC and
    distinguished visiting professor of public policy at Ball State
    University.

Derica W. Rice

45

Executive Vice President, Global Services (since January 2010)
    and Chief Financial Officer (since May 2006)

Jeffrey N. Simmons

42

Senior Vice President and President, Elanco Animal Health (since
    January 2008)

Jacques Tapiero

51

Senior Vice President and President, Emerging Markets (since
    January 2010)

Employees  

At the end of 2009, we employed approximately
    40,360 people, including approximately
    20,300 employees outside the United States. A substantial
    number of our employees have long records of continuous service.

Financial
    Information Relating to Business Segments and Classes of
    Products  

You can find financial information relating to our business
    segments and classes of products in Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K, 
     Segment Information.  That information is
    incorporated here by reference.

The relative contribution of any particular product to our
    consolidated net sales changes from year to year. This is due to
    several factors, including the introduction of new products by
    us and by other manufacturers and the introduction of generic
    pharmaceuticals upon patent expirations. In addition, margins
    vary for our different products due to various factors,
    including differences in the cost to manufacture and market the
    products, the value of the products to the marketplace, and
    government restrictions on pricing and reimbursement. Our major
    product sales are generally not seasonal.

Financial
    Information Relating to Foreign and Domestic
    Operations  

You can find financial information relating to foreign and
    domestic operations in Item 8,  Segment
    Information.  That information is incorporated here by
    reference. To date, our overall operations abroad have not been
    significantly deterred by local restrictions on the transfer of
    funds from branches and subsidiaries located abroad, including
    the availability of U.S. dollar exchange. We cannot predict
    what effect these restrictions or the other risks inherent in
    foreign operations, including possible nationalization, might
    have on our future operations or what other restrictions may be
    imposed in the future. In addition, changing currency values can
    either favorably or unfavorably affect our financial position,

10   

liquidity, and results of operations. We mitigate foreign
    exchange risk through various hedging techniques including the
    use of foreign currency contracts.

Available
    Information on Our Web Site  

We make available through our company web site, free of charge,
    our company filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (SEC) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically
    file them with, or furnish them to, the SEC. These include our
    annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    proxy statements, registration statements, and any amendments to
    those documents. The company web site link to our SEC filings is
      http://investor.lilly.com/sec.cfm  .

In addition, the Corporate Governance portion of our web site
    includes our corporate governance guidelines, board and
    committee information (including committee charters), and our
    articles of incorporation and by-laws. The link to our corporate
    governance information is
      http://investor.lilly.com/governance.cfm.  

We will provide paper copies of our SEC filings free of charge
    upon request to the company s secretary at the address
    listed on the front of this
     Form 10-K. 

Item 1A.     

Risk
    Factors; Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward Looking
    Statements   

In addition to the other information contained in this
     Form 10-K, 
    the following risk factors should be considered carefully in
    evaluating our company. It is possible that our business,
    financial condition, liquidity, or results of operations could
    be materially adversely affected by any of these risks.

We make certain forward-looking statements in this
     Form 10-K, 
    and company spokespersons may make such statements in the
    future. Where possible, we try to identify forward-looking
    statements by using such words as  expect, 
     plan,   will,   estimate, 
     forecast,   project,   believe, 
    and  anticipate . Forward-looking statements do not
    relate strictly to historical or current facts. They are likely
    to address our growth strategy, sales of current and anticipated
    products, financial results, our research and development
    programs, the status of product approvals, legislative and
    regulatory developments, and the outcome of contingencies such
    as litigation and investigations. All forward-looking statements
    are based on our expectations at the time we make them. They are
    subject to risks and uncertainties, including those summarized
    below.

Pharmaceutical research and development is very costly and
    highly uncertain.  There are many difficulties and
    uncertainties inherent in pharmaceutical research and
    development and the introduction of new products. There is a
    high rate of failure inherent in new drug discovery and
    development. To bring a drug from the discovery phase to market
    typically takes a decade or more and costs over $1 billion.
    Failure can occur at any point in the process, including late in
    the process after substantial investment. As a result, most
    funds invested in research programs will not generate financial
    returns. New product candidates that appear promising in
    development may fail to reach the market or may have only
    limited commercial success because of efficacy or safety
    concerns, inability to obtain necessary regulatory approvals,
    limited scope of approved uses, difficulty or excessive costs to
    manufacture, or infringement of the patents or intellectual
    property rights of others. Delays and uncertainties in the FDA
    approval process and the approval processes in other countries
    can result in delays in product launches and lost market
    opportunity. In recent years, FDA review times have increased
    substantially and fewer new drugs are being approved. In
    addition, it can be very difficult to predict sales growth rates
    of new products.

We face intense competition.  We compete with a large
    number of multinational pharmaceutical companies, biotechnology
    companies and generic pharmaceutical companies. To compete
    successfully, we must continue to deliver to the market
    innovative, cost-effective products that meet important medical
    needs. Our product sales can be adversely affected by the
    introduction by competitors of branded products that are
    perceived as superior by the marketplace, by generic versions of
    our branded products, and by generic versions of other products
    in the same therapeutic class as our branded products. See
    Item 1,  Business Competition,  for more
    details.

We depend on patent-protected products for most of our
    revenues, cash flows, and earnings, and we will lose effective
    intellectual property protection for many of them in the next
    several years.   Eight significant products, which
    together comprise 74 percent of our worldwide revenue, will
    lose their

11   

most significant remaining U.S. patent protection, as well
    as their intellectual property-based exclusivity in most
    countries outside the U.S., in the next several years:

1 The

    Gemzar use patent and Evista dosage form patent have been held
    invalid by federal district courts, and we have appealed those
    decisions. For more information, see Item 7,
     Management s Discussion and Analysis Legal and
    Regulatory Matters. 

Loss of exclusivity typically results in a rapid and severe
    decline in sales. See Item 1,  Business Patents,
    Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Protection, 
    for more details. Additionally, if these or other significant
    products were to become subject to a problem such as an early
    loss of patent protection as a result of litigation, unexpected
    side effects, regulatory proceedings, material product liability
    litigation, publicity affecting doctor or patient confidence, or
    pressure from competitive products, the adverse impact on our
    revenues, cash flows, and earnings could be significant.

Our long-term success depends on intellectual property
    protection .  Our long-term success depends on our
    ability to continually discover, develop, and commercialize
    innovative new pharmaceutical products. Without strong
    intellectual property protection, we would be unable to generate
    the returns necessary to support the enormous investments in
    research and development and capital as well as other
    expenditures required to bring new drugs to the market.

Intellectual property protection varies throughout the world and
    is subject to change over time. In the U.S., the Hatch-Waxman
    Act provides generic companies powerful incentives to seek to
    invalidate our patents; as a result, we expect that our
    U.S. patents on major products will be routinely
    challenged, and there can be no assurance that our patents will
    be upheld. See Item 1,  Business Patents,
    Trademarks, and Other Intellectual Property Protection, 
    for more details. We are increasingly facing generic
    manufacturer challenges to our patents outside the U.S. as
    well. In addition, competitors or other third parties may claim
    that our activities infringe patents or other intellectual
    property rights held by them. If successful, such claims could
    result in our being unable to market a product in a particular
    territory or being required to pay damages for past infringement
    or royalties on future sales. See Item 1,
     Business Patents, Trademarks, and Other Intellectual
    Property Protection,  for more details.

Our business is subject to increasing government price
    controls and other health care cost containment measures.
     Government health care cost-containment measures can
    significantly affect our sales and profitability. In many
    countries outside the United States, government agencies
    strictly control, directly or indirectly, the prices at which
    our products are sold. In the United States, we are subject to
    substantial pricing pressures from state Medicaid programs and
    private insurance programs and pharmacy benefit managers,
    including those operating under the Medicare Part D
    pharmaceutical benefit. Many federal and state legislative
    proposals, including the comprehensive health care reform bills
    that were the subject of recent debate in Congress, would
    further negatively affect our pricing
     and/or 
    reimbursement for our products. We expect pricing pressures from
    both governments and private payers inside and outside the
    United States to become more severe. See Item I,
     Business Regulations Affecting Pharmaceutical Pricing
    and Reimbursement,  for more details.

Pharmaceutical products can develop unexpected safety or
    efficacy concerns.   Unexpected safety or efficacy
    concerns can arise with respect to marketed products, leading to
    product recalls, withdrawals, or declining sales, as well as
    costly product liability claims.

Regulatory compliance problems could be damaging to the
    company.   The marketing, promotional, and pricing
    practices of pharmaceutical manufacturers, as well as the manner
    in which manufacturers interact with purchasers, prescribers,
    and patients, are subject to extensive regulation. Many

12   

companies, including Lilly, have been subject to claims related
    to these practices asserted by federal, state and foreign
    governmental authorities and private payers and consumers. These
    claims have resulted in substantial expense and other
    significant consequences to us. It is possible other products
    could become subject to investigation and that the outcome of
    these matters could include criminal charges and fines,
    penalties, or other monetary or nonmonetary remedies. In
    particular, See Item 7,  Management s Discussion
    and Analysis Legal and Regulatory Matters,  for the
    discussions of the U.S. sales and marketing practices
    investigations. In addition, regulatory issues concerning
    compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practice (cGMP)
    regulations for pharmaceutical products can lead to product
    recalls and seizures, interruption of production leading to
    product shortages, and delays in the approvals of new products
    pending resolution of the cGMP issues. We are now operating
    under a Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Office of
    Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and
    Human Services that requires us to maintain comprehensive
    compliance programs governing our research, manufacturing, and
    sales and marketing of pharmaceuticals. A material failure to
    comply with the Agreement could result in severe sanctions to
    the company. See Item 1,  Business Regulation of
    our Operations,  for more details.

We face many product liability claims today, and future
    claims will be largely self-insured.   We are
    subject to a substantial number of product liability claims
    involving primarily Zyprexa, diethylstilbestrol
    ( DES ), thimerosal, and Byetta, and because of the
    nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible that we could
    become subject to large numbers of product liability claims for
    other products in the future. See Item 7,
     Management s Discussion and Analysis Legal and
    Regulatory Matters,  and Item 3,  Legal
    Proceedings,  for more information on our current product
    liability litigation. Due to a very restrictive market for
    product liability insurance, we have been and will continue to
    be largely self-insured for future product liability losses for
    substantially all our currently marketed products. In addition,
    there is no assurance that we will be able to fully collect from
    our insurance carriers on past claims.

Manufacturing difficulties could lead to product supply
    problems.  Pharmaceutical manufacturing is complex and
    highly regulated. Manufacturing difficulties at our facilities
    or contracted facilities, or the failure or refusal of a
    contract manufacturer to supply contracted quantities, could
    result in product shortages, leading to lost sales. See
    Item 1,  Business Raw Materials and Product
    Supply,  for more details.

A prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect our
    business and operating results.  While pharmaceuticals
    have not generally been sensitive to overall economic cycles, a
    prolonged economic downturn coupled with rising unemployment
    (and a corresponding increase in the uninsured and underinsured
    population) could lead to decreased utilization of drugs,
    affecting our sales volume. Declining tax revenues attributable
    to the downturn are increasing the pressure on governments to
    reduce health care spending, leading to increasing government
    efforts to control drug prices and utilization. In addition, a
    prolonged economic downturn could adversely affect our
    investment portfolio, which could lead to the recognition of
    losses on our corporate investments and increased benefit
    expense related to our pension obligations. Also, if our
    customers, suppliers or collaboration partners experience
    financial difficulties, we could experience slower customer
    collections, greater bad debt expense, and performance defaults
    by suppliers or collaboration partners.

We face other risks to our business and operating
    results.  Our business is subject to a number of other
    risks and uncertainties, including:

Economic factors over which we have no control, including
    changes in inflation, interest rates, and foreign currency
    exchange rates, can affect our results of operations.

Changes in tax laws, including laws related to the remittance of
    foreign earnings or investments in foreign countries with
    favorable tax rates, and settlements of federal, state, and
    foreign tax audits, can affect our results of operations. In its
    budget submission to Congress in February 2010, the Obama
    administration proposed changes to the manner in which the
    U.S. would tax the international income of
     U.S.-based 
    companies. While it is uncertain how the U.S. Congress may
    address this issue, reform of U.S. taxation, including
    taxation of international income, continues to be a topic of
    discussion for the U.S. Congress. A significant change to
    the U.S. tax system, including changes to the taxation of
    international income, could have a material adverse effect on
    our results of operations.

Changes in accounting standards promulgated by the Financial
    Accounting Standards Board and the Securities and Exchange
    Commission can affect our financial statements.

Our financial statements can also be affected by internal
    factors, such as changes in business strategies and the impact
    of restructurings, asset impairments, technology acquisition and
    disposition transactions, and business combinations.

We undertake no duty to update forward-looking statements.

Item 1B.     

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

None.

13   

Item 2.     

Properties   

Our principal domestic and international executive offices are
    located in Indianapolis. At December 31, 2009, we owned 12
    production and distribution sites in the United States and
    Puerto Rico. Together with the corporate administrative offices,
    these facilities contain an aggregate of approximately
    14.1 million square feet of floor area dedicated to
    production, distribution, and administration. Major production
    sites include Indianapolis and Clinton, Indiana; Carolina,
    Puerto Rico; Branchburg, New Jersey; and Augusta, Georgia.

We own production and distribution sites in 12 countries outside
    the United States and Puerto Rico, containing an aggregate of
    approximately 3.6 million square feet of floor area. Major
    production sites include facilities in France, Ireland, Spain,
    Brazil, Italy, Mexico, and the United Kingdom.

Our research and development facilities in the United States
    consist of approximately 3.7 million square feet and are
    located primarily in Indianapolis, with smaller sites in
    San Diego and New York City. Our major research and
    development facilities abroad are located in United Kingdom,
    Canada, Singapore, and Spain, and contain an aggregate of
    approximately 350,000 square feet.

We believe that none of our properties is subject to any
    encumbrance, easement, or other restriction that would detract
    materially from its value or impair its use in the operation of
    the business. The buildings we own are of varying ages and in
    good condition.

Item 3.     

Legal
    Proceedings   

We are a party to various currently pending legal actions,
    government investigations, and environmental proceedings, and we
    anticipate that such actions could be brought against us in the
    future. The most significant of these matters are described
    below or, as noted, in Item 7,  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis Legal and Regulatory Matters. 
    While it is not possible to determine the outcome of the legal
    actions, investigations and proceedings brought against us, we
    believe that, except as otherwise specifically noted below or in
    Item 7, the resolution of all such matters will not have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position
    or liquidity, but could be material to our consolidated results
    of operations in any one accounting period.

Legal
    Proceedings Described in Management s Discussion and
    Analysis  

See Item 7,  Management s Discussion and
    Analysis Legal and Regulatory Matters,  for
    information on various legal proceedings, including but not
    limited to:

The U.S. patent litigation involving Alimta, Cymbalta,
    Evista, Gemzar, Strattera, and Xigris

The patent litigation outside the U.S. involving Zyprexa

The various federal and state investigations relating to our
    sales, marketing, and promotional practices

The Zyprexa product liability and related litigation, including
    claims brought on behalf of state Medicaid agencies and private
    healthcare payers

That information is incorporated into this Item by reference.

Other
    Patent Litigation  

Cialis:  In July 2005, Vanderbilt University filed a
    lawsuit in the United States District Court in Delaware against
    ICOS Corporation seeking to add three of its scientists as
    co-inventors on the Cialis compound and
     method-of-use 
    patents. In January 2009, the district court judge ruled in our
    favor, declining to add any of these scientists as an inventor
    on either patent. The plaintiff appealed this ruling to the
    Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which heard oral
    arguments in November 2009. We await the court s decision.
    We believe these claims are without legal merit and expect to
    prevail in the appeal; however, it is not possible to determine
    the outcome. An unfavorable final outcome could have a material
    adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations,
    liquidity, and financial position.

In October 2002, Pfizer Inc. was issued a
     method-of-use 
    patent in the United States and commenced a lawsuit in the
    United States District Court in Delaware against us, Lilly ICOS
    LLC, and ICOS Corporation (both later acquired by Lilly)
    alleging that the marketing of Cialis for erectile dysfunction
    infringed this patent. This litigation has been stayed pending
    the outcome of a reexamination of the patent by the
    U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. The Office has made a
    final rejection of the relevant patent claims which Pfizer has
    appealed to the Board of Patent Appeals and Interferences. In
    February 2010, the Board affirmed the Office s rejection of
    these claims. Pfizer has the right to appeal this decision. We
    believe Pfizer s claims are without merit and expect to
    prevail. However, it is not possible to determine the outcome of
    this litigation.

14   

Other
    Product Liability Litigation  

We are currently a defendant in a variety of product liability
    lawsuits in the United States involving primarily Zyprexa,
    thimerosal, Byetta, and DES.

We have been named as a defendant in approximately 200 actions
    in the U.S., involving approximately 270 claimants, brought
    in various state courts and federal district courts on behalf of
    children with autism or other neurological disorders who
    received childhood vaccines (manufactured by other companies)
    that contained thimerosal, a generic preservative used in
    certain vaccines in the U.S. beginning in the 1930s. We
    purchased patents and conducted research pertaining to
    thimerosal in the 1920s. We have been named in the suits even
    though we discontinued manufacturing the raw material in 1974
    and discontinued selling it in the United States to vaccine
    manufacturers in 1992. The lawsuits typically name the vaccine
    manufacturers as well as Lilly and other distributors of
    thimerosal, and allege that the children s exposure to
    thimerosal-containing vaccines caused their autism or other
    neurological disorders. We strongly deny any liability in these
    cases. There is no credible scientific evidence establishing a
    causal relationship between thimerosal-containing vaccines and
    autism or other neurological disorders. In addition, we believe
    the majority of the cases should not be prosecuted in the courts
    in which they have been brought because the underlying claims
    are subject to the National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of
    1986. Implemented in 1988, the Act established a mandatory,
    federally administered no-fault claims process for individuals
    who allege that they were harmed by the administration of
    childhood vaccines. Under the Act, claims must first be brought
    before the U.S. Court of Claims for an award determination
    under the compensation guidelines established pursuant to the
    Act. Claimants who are unsatisfied with their awards under the
    Act may reject the award and seek traditional judicial remedies.

We have been named a defendant in approximately 55 Byetta
    product liability lawsuits involving approximately 280
    plaintiffs, primarily seeking to recover damages for
    pancreatitis experienced by patients prescribed Byetta. We are
    aware of approximately 40 additional claimants who have not yet
    filed suit. The majority of the cases are filed in California
    and coordinated in a Los Angeles Superior Court. In June 2009, a
    lawsuit was filed in Louisiana State Court (Ralph
    Jackson v. Eli Lilly and Company, et al.) seeking to assert
    similar product liability claims on behalf of Louisiana
    residents who were prescribed Byetta; however, the plaintiff
    dropped the class action allegations in a recently-filed amended
    complaint. We believe these claims are without merit and are
    prepared to defend against them vigorously.

In approximately 25 U.S. lawsuits against us involving
    approximately 50 claimants, plaintiffs seek to recover damages
    on behalf of children or grandchildren of women who were
    prescribed DES during pregnancy in the 1950s and 1960s. In
    December 2009, a lawsuit was filed in U.S. District Court
    in Washington, D.C. against Lilly and other manufacturers
    ( Michele Fecho, et al v. Eli Lilly and Company, et
    al ) seeking to assert product liability claims on behalf of
    a putative class of men and women allegedly exposed to the
    medicine who claim to have later developed breast cancer. We
    believe these claims are without merit and are prepared to
    defend against them vigorously.

Other
    Marketing Practices Investigations  

In November 2008, we received a subpoena from the
    U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Office of
    Inspector General in coordination with the U.S. Attorney
    for the Western District of New York seeking production of a
    wide range of documents and information relating to
    reimbursement of Alimta. We are cooperating in this
    investigation.

In August 2003, we received notice that the staff of the SEC is
    conducting an investigation into the compliance by Polish
    subsidiaries of certain pharmaceutical companies, including
    Lilly, with the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act of 1977.
    The staff has issued subpoenas to us requesting production of
    documents related to the investigation. In connection with that
    matter, staffs of the SEC and the Department of Justice (DOJ)
    have expanded their investigation and have asked us to
    voluntarily provide additional information related to certain
    activities of Lilly affiliates in a number of other countries.
    The SEC staff has also issued a subpoena related to activities
    in these countries. We are cooperating with the SEC and the DOJ
    in this investigation.

Shareholder
    Derivative Litigation  

In 2007, the company received two demands from shareholders that
    the board of directors cause the company to take legal action
    against current and former directors and others for allegedly
    causing damage to the company through improper marketing of
    Evista, Prozac, and Zyprexa. In accordance with procedures
    established under the Indiana Business Corporation Law (Ind.
    Code
       23-1-32), 
    the board has appointed a committee of independent persons to
    consider the demands and determine what action, if any, the
    company should take in response. Since January 2008, we have
    been served with seven shareholder derivative lawsuits:
     Lambrecht, et al. v. Taurel, et al. , filed
    January 17, 2008, in the United States District Court for
    the Southern District of Indiana;  Staehr, et al. v. Eli
    Lilly and Company, et al.,  filed March 27, 2008, in
    Marion County Superior Court in Indianapolis, Indiana;
     Waldman, et al., v. Eli Lilly and Company, et al. ,
    filed February 11, 2008, in the United States District
    Court for the Eastern District of New York;  Solomon v.
    Eli Lilly and Company, et al. , filed March 27, 2008, in
    Marion County Superior Court in

15   

Indianapolis, Indiana;  Robbins v. Taurel, et al. ,
    filed April 9, 2008, in the United States District Court
    for the Eastern District of New York;  City of Taylor General
    Employees Retirement System v. Taurel, et al. , filed
    April 15, 2008, in the United States District Court for the
    Eastern District of New York; and  Zemprelli v. Taurel,
    et al ., filed June 24, 2008, in the United States
    District Court for the Southern District of Indiana. Two of
    these lawsuits were filed by the shareholders who served the
    demands described above. All seven lawsuits are nominally filed
    on behalf of the company, against various current and former
    directors and officers and allege that the named officers and
    directors harmed the company through the improper marketing of
    Zyprexa, and in certain suits, Evista and Prozac. The Zemprelli
    suit also claims that certain defendants violated
    Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934. We believe these lawsuits are without merit and are
    prepared to defend against them vigorously.

Employee
    Litigation  

In April 2006, three former employees and one current employee
    filed a complaint against the company in the U.S. District
    Court for the Southern District of Indiana ( Welch, et
    al. v. Eli Lilly and Company , filed April 20,
    2006) alleging racial discrimination. Plaintiffs have since
    amended their complaint twice, and the lawsuit currently
    involves 145 individual plaintiffs as well as the national and
    local chapters of the National Association for the Advancement
    of Colored People (NAACP). Although the case was originally
    filed as a putative class action, in September 2009, plaintiffs
    withdrew their request for class certification. We believe these
    claims are without merit and are prepared to defend against them
    vigorously.

We have also been named as a defendant in a lawsuit filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the Northern District of New York
    ( Schaefer-LaRose, et al .  v. Eli Lilly and Company ,
    filed November 14, 2006) claiming that our
    pharmaceutical sales representatives should have been
    categorized as  non-exempt  rather than
     exempt  employees, and claiming that the company owes
    them back wages for overtime worked, as well as penalties,
    interest, and attorneys  fees. Other pharmaceutical
    industry participants face identical lawsuits. The case was
    transferred to the U.S. District Court for the Southern
    District of Indiana in August 2007. In February 2008, the
    Indianapolis court conditionally certified a nationwide opt-in
    collective action under the Fair Labor Standards Act of all
    current and former employees who served as a Lilly
    pharmaceutical sales representative at any time from November
    2003 to the present. As of the close of the opt-in period, fewer
    than 400 of the over 7,500 potential plaintiffs elected to
    participate in the lawsuit. In September 2009, the District
    Court granted our motion for summary judgment with regard to
    Ms. Schaefer-LaRose s claims and ordered the
    plaintiffs to demonstrate why the entire collective action
    should not be decertified within 30 days. Plaintiffs have
    filed a motion for reconsideration of the summary judgment
    decision and have also opposed decertification, and all other
    matters have been stayed pending a ruling on these issues. If
    summary judgment is not reconsidered, we expect plaintiffs will
    appeal the ruling to the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals. We
    believe this lawsuit is without merit and are prepared to defend
    against it vigorously.

In September 2009, one of the opt-in plaintiffs in
     Schaefer-LaRose, et al v. Eli Lilly and Company 
    filed an action in the Superior Court for Alameda County,
    California, alleging on behalf of a putative class that the
    company violated California s Business and Professions Code
    by failing to pay sales representatives overtime and by not
    providing them with rest and meal breaks under California law.
    After removing the lawsuit to the federal district court in the
    Northern District of California, the parties agreed, and the
    Court ordered, that the lawsuit would be stayed pending a
    decision from the 9th Circuit in one of the other several
    lawsuits addressing the exempt status of pharmaceutical sales
    representatives. We believe the lawsuit is without merit and are
    prepared to defend against it vigorously.

We have been named in a lawsuit brought by the Labor Attorney
    for 15th Region in the Labor Court of Paulinia, State of
    Sao Paulo, Brazil, alleging possible harm to employees and
    former employees caused by exposure to heavy metals. We have
    also been named in approximately 50 lawsuits filed in the same
    court by individual former employees making similar claims. We
    have also been named, along with several other companies, in a
    lawsuit filed by certain of these individuals in
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana on
    April 21, 2009, alleging possible harm caused by exposure
    to pesticides related to our former agricultural chemical
    manufacturing facility in Cosmopolis, Brazil. We believe these
    lawsuits are without merit and are prepared to defend against
    them vigorously.

Other
    Matters  

In October 2005, the U.S. Attorney s office for the
    Eastern District of Pennsylvania advised that it is conducting
    an inquiry regarding certain rebate agreements we entered into
    with a pharmacy benefit manager covering
    Axid   ,

    Evista, Humalog, Humulin, Prozac, and Zyprexa. The inquiry
    includes a review of our Medicaid best price reporting related
    to the product sales covered by the rebate agreements. We are
    cooperating in this matter.

In October 2005, we received a subpoena from the
    U.S. Attorney s office for the District of
    Massachusetts for the production of documents relating to our
    business relationship with a long-term care pharmacy
    organization concerning Actos, Evista, Humalog, Humulin, and
    Zyprexa. We are cooperating in this matter.

16   

Between 2003 and 2005, various municipalities in New York sued
    us and many other pharmaceutical manufacturers, claiming in
    general that as a result of alleged improprieties by the
    manufacturers in the calculation and reporting of average
    wholesale prices for purposes of Medicaid reimbursement, the
    municipalities overpaid their portion of the cost of
    pharmaceuticals. The suits seek monetary and other relief,
    including civil penalties and treble damages. Similar suits were
    filed against us and many other manufacturers by the States of
    Mississippi, Iowa, Utah, and Kansas. These suits are pending
    either in the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Massachusetts or in various state courts. All of these suits are
    in early stages or discovery is ongoing. We believe these
    lawsuits are without merit and are prepared to defend against
    them vigorously.

During 2004 we, along with several other pharmaceutical
    companies, were named in a consolidated lawsuit in California
    state court brought on behalf of consumers alleging that the
    conduct of pharmaceutical companies in preventing commercial
    importation of prescription drugs from outside the United States
    violated antitrust laws. The case sought restitution for alleged
    overpayments for pharmaceuticals and an injunction against the
    allegedly violative conduct. Summary judgment was granted to us
    and the other defendants. In July 2008, the California Court of
    Appeals affirmed that decision. The California Supreme Court has
    accepted plaintiff s appeal, and we expect it to be heard
    later this year.

In July 2008, we received a request from the Civil Division of
    the United States Department of Justice requesting the
    production of documents related to nominal pricing. In June
    2009, we received a Civil Investigative Demand from the office
    of the Attorney General of Texas requesting documents related to
    nominal pricing of Axid; we divested the marketing rights for
    Axid in 2000. We are cooperating in these matters.

Along with over 100 other pharmaceutical companies operating in
    Europe, in 2008 we received questionnaires from the European
    Commission as part of its inquiry into whether pharmaceutical
    companies improperly blocked or created artificial barriers to
    pharmaceutical innovation or market entry of medicines through
    the misuse of patent rights, settlements of claims, litigation,
    or other means. In July 2009, the Commission released its report
    in which it concluded that the practices of companies
    contributed to delays in the entry of medicines onto the market,
    but that shortcomings in the regulatory framework were also a
    contributing factor. The Commission has subsequently requested
    additional information from the companies. We are cooperating
    with the Commission in this matter.

Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
    and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, we have been
    designated as one of several potentially responsible parties
    with respect to the cleanup of fewer than 10 sites. Under
    Superfund, each responsible party may be jointly and severally
    liable for the entire amount of the cleanup.

During routine inspections in 2006 and 2007, the
    U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) identified
    potential gaps in our leak detection and repair program (LDAR).
    In addition, in 2006 we voluntarily reported to the state and
    city environmental agencies that we had exceeded an annual limit
    for air emissions. In response to these events, we have
    implemented numerous corrective actions and enhancements to our
    LDAR program. We are currently working with the EPA towards
    resolution of this matter, which will likely require the payment
    of a fine. We do not believe the amount of the fine will be
    material.

We are also a defendant in other litigation and investigations,
    including product liability, patent, employment, and premises
    liability litigation, of a character we regard as normal to our
    business.

Item 4.     

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   

During the fourth quarter of 2009, no matters were submitted to
    a vote of security holders.

Part II  

Item 5.     

Market
    for the Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder
    Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

You can find information relating to the principal market for
    our common stock and related stockholder matters at Item 8
    under  Selected Quarterly Data (unaudited)  and
     Selected Financial Data (unaudited).  That
    information is incorporated here by reference.

17   

The following table summarizes the activity related to
    repurchases of our equity securities during the fourth quarter
    ended December 31, 2009:

The amounts presented in columns (a) and (b) above
    represent purchases of common stock related to employee stock
    option exercises. The amounts presented in columns (c) and
    (d) in the above table represent activity related to our
    $3.00 billion share repurchase program announced in March
    2000. As of December 31, 2009, we have purchased
    $2.58 billion related to this program.

Item 6.     

Selected
    Financial Data   

You can find selected financial data for each of our five most
    recent fiscal years in Item 8 under  Selected
    Financial Data (unaudited).  That information is
    incorporated here by reference.

Item 7.     

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
    Condition   

RESULTS
    OF OPERATIONS  

EXECUTIVE
    OVERVIEW  

This section provides an overview of our financial results,
    recent product and late-stage pipeline developments, significant
    business development, and legal, regulatory, and other matters
    affecting our company and the pharmaceutical industry.

Financial
    Results  

We achieved revenue growth of 7 percent in 2009, which was
    primarily driven by the collective growth of Alimta, Cymbalta,
    Humalog, and Zyprexa and the inclusion of Erbitux revenue as a
    result of the ImClone Systems Inc. (Imclone) acquisition in
    November 2008. The impact of changes in foreign currencies
    compared to the U.S. dollar on international inventories
    sold during the year decreased our cost of sales in 2009 and
    increased our cost of sales in 2008, which contributed to an
    improvement in gross margin. Marketing, selling, and
    administrative expenses grew at a slower rate than revenue,
    while our investment in research and development grew at a
    greater rate than sales. We incurred income tax expense of
    $1.03 billion in 2009 resulting in an effective tax rate of
    19.2 percent. Earnings increased to $4.33 billion, and
    earnings per share increased to $3.94 per share, in 2009 as
    compared to a net loss of $2.07 billion, and a loss per
    share of $1.89 in 2008. Net income comparisons between 2009 and
    2008 are affected by the impact of the following significant
    items:

2009  

Acquisitions (Note 3)

We incurred acquired in-process research and development
    (IPR D) charges associated with an in-licensing arrangement
    with Incyte Corporation (Incyte) of $90.0 million (pretax),
    which decreased earnings per share by $.05.

Asset Impairments and Related Restructuring and Other Special
    Charges (Notes 5 and 14)

We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other
    special charges of $462.7 million (pretax), which decreased
    earnings per share by $.29 for asset impairments and
    restructuring primarily related to the sale of our Tippecanoe
    Laboratories manufacturing site to an affiliate of Evonik
    Industries AG.

We incurred pretax charges of $230.0 million representing
    the currently probable and estimable exposures in connection
    with the claims of several states related to Zyprexa, which
    decreased earnings per share by $.13.

18   

2008  

Acquisitions (Note 3)

We recognized charges totaling $4.73 billion (pretax)
    associated with the acquisition of ImClone, which decreased
    earnings per share by $4.46. These amounts include an IPR D
    charge of $4.69 billion (pretax). The remaining net
    expenses are related to ImClone s operating results
    subsequent to the acquisition, incremental interest costs, and
    amortization of the intangible asset associated with Erbitux. We
    also incurred IPR D charges of $28.0 million (pretax)
    associated with the acquisition of SGX Pharmaceuticals, Inc.
    (SGX), which decreased earnings per share by $.03.

We incurred IPR D charges associated with licensing
    arrangements with BioMS Medical Corp. (BioMS) and TransPharma
    Medical Ltd. totaling $122.0 million (pretax), which
    decreased earnings per share by $.07.

Asset Impairments and Related Restructuring and Other Special
    Charges (Notes 5 and 14)

We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other
    special charges totaling $497.0 million (pretax), which
    decreased earnings per share by $.30. A similar charge of
    $57.1 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share
    by $.04, was included in cost of sales. These charges were
    primarily associated with the sale of our Greenfield, Indiana
    site, the termination of the
    AIR   

    Insulin program; and strategic exit activities related to
    manufacturing operations.

We recorded charges of $1.48 billion (pretax) related to
    the federal and state Zyprexa investigations led by the
    U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
    (EDPA), as well as the resolution of a multi-state investigation
    regarding Zyprexa involving 32 states and the District of
    Columbia, which decreased earnings per share by $1.20.

Other (Note 12)

We recognized a discrete income tax benefit of
    $210.3 million as a result of the resolution of a
    substantial portion of the IRS audit of our federal income tax
    returns for the years 2001 through 2004, which increased
    earnings per share by $.19.

Late-Stage
    Pipeline Developments and Business Development
    Activity  

Our long-term success depends, to a great extent, on our ability
    to continue to discover and develop innovative pharmaceutical
    products and acquire or collaborate on compounds currently in
    development by other biotechnology or pharmaceutical companies.
    We currently have over 60 potential new drugs in human testing.
    A number of late-stage pipeline developments and business
    development transactions occurred within the past year,
    including:

Pipeline 

The United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved an
    expanded indication for Byetta as a standalone medication
    (monotherapy) along with diet and exercise to improve glycemic
    control in adults with type 2 diabetes.

The FDA approved Zyprexa Relprevv for extended release
    injectable suspension for the treatment of schizophrenia in
    adults. We also launched this product under the tradename
    Zypadhera in several countries within the European Union.

We announced initial results from a Phase III clinical
    trial for arzoxifene. After reviewing the overall clinical
    profile of arzoxifene in light of currently available
    treatments, including our own osteoporosis products, we decided
    not to submit the compound for regulatory review.

The FDA approved a new use for Forteo to treat osteoporosis
    associated with sustained, systemic glucocorticoid therapy in
    men and women at high risk of fracture.

We and our partner BioMS discontinued Phase III clinical
    trials for dirucotide in patients with secondary progressive
    multiple sclerosis. Data showed that dirucotide did not meet the
    primary endpoint of delaying disease progression and there were
    no statistically significant differences between dirucotide and
    placebo on the secondary endpoints of the study.

The FDA approved Effient tablets for the reduction of thrombotic
    cardiovascular events (including stent thrombosis) in patients
    with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) who are managed with an
    artery-opening procedure known as percutaneous coronary
    intervention (PCI). We and our partner, Daiichi Sankyo, Inc.,
    launched Effient in the U.S. in August. The European
    Commission granted marketing authorization for
    Efient   

    for the prevention of atherothrombotic events in patients with
    ACS undergoing PCI.

The FDA approved Alimta as a maintenance therapy for locally
    advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC),
    specifically for patients with a nonsquamous histology whose
    disease has not progressed after four cycles of platinum-based
    first-line chemotherapy.

The European Commission granted approval for the use of Alimta
    as monotherapy for maintenance treatment of patients with other
    than predominantly squamous cell histology in locally-advanced
    or

19   

metastatic NSCLC, whose disease has not progressed immediately
    following platinum-based chemotherapy.

Alimta received regulatory approval in Japan as both a first-
    and second-line treatment of NSCLC.

We and our partners Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Amylin) and
    Alkermes, Inc., submitted a New Drug Application (NDA) to the
    FDA for exenatide once weekly. Exenatide once weekly is an
    investigational sustained release medication for type 2 diabetes
    that is injected subcutaneously and administered only once a
    week.

We began enrolling patients in two separate but identical
    Phase III clinical trials of solanezumab, an
     anti-amyloid 
    beta monoclonal antibody being investigated as a potential
    treatment to delay the progression of mild to moderate
    Alzheimer s disease. The trials each include a treatment
    period that lasts 18 months and are expected to enroll a
    total of 2,000 patients age 55 and over from
    16 countries.

The FDA approved two new combination indications for Zyprexa
    (olanzapine) and fluoxetine for the acute treatment of bipolar
    depression and TRD in adults.

We received a complete response letter from the FDA for the
    first-line squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (SCCHN)
    supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) for Erbitux.

Business
    Development  

We entered into an exclusive worldwide license and collaboration
    agreement with Incyte for the development and commercialization
    of Incyte s oral JAK1/JAK2 inhibitor, and certain follow-on
    compounds, for inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. The lead
    compound is currently being studied in a six-month dose-ranging
    Phase II trial for rheumatoid arthritis.

We entered into a co-promotion agreement with Kowa
    Pharmaceutical America to commercialize
    Livalo   

    (pitavastatin) in the United States. Lilly and Kowa Company,
    Limited have also entered into a licensing agreement in Latin
    America. Livalo is a statin approved by the FDA in August 2009
    for the treatment of primary hyperlipidemia and mixed
    dyslipidemia. We plan to launch Livalo in the U.S. in
    mid-2010.

In January 2010, we restructured the collaboration agreement
    executed by Bristol-Myers Squibb and ImClone in 2001 to allow
    for the co-development and co-commercialization of the
    late-stage oncology molecule necitumumab (IMC-11F8), which is
    currently in Phase III clinical testing for non-small cell
    lung cancer. Under the restructured agreement, both companies
    will share in the cost of developing and potentially
    commercializing necitumumab in the U.S., Canada and Japan. We
    maintain exclusive rights to necitumumab in all other markets.

Legal,
    Regulatory, and Other Matters  

In September 2009, we set a goal to reduce our expected cost
    structure by $1 billion by the end of 2011. We also plan to
    lower global headcount to 35,000 by the end of 2011, excluding
    strategic sales force additions in high-growth emerging markets
    and Japan, which could result in future periodic restructuring
    charges.

In January 2009, we reached resolution with the Office of the
    U.S. Attorney for the EDPA, and the State Medicaid Fraud
    Control Units of 36 states and the District of Columbia, of
    an investigation related to our U.S. marketing and
    promotional practices with respect to Zyprexa. We recorded a
    charge of $1.42 billion for this matter in the third
    quarter of 2008. In 2009, we paid substantially all of this
    amount, as required by the settlement agreements. In addition,
    in October 2008, we reached a settlement with 32 states and
    the District of Columbia related to a multistate investigation
    brought under various state consumer protection laws, under
    which we paid $62.0 million. However, we were served with
    lawsuits brought by attorneys general of a number of states,
    alleging that Zyprexa caused or contributed to diabetes or high
    blood-glucose levels, and that we improperly promoted the drug
    and seeking to recover the costs paid for Zyprexa through
    Medicaid and other drug-benefit programs, as well as the costs
    alleged to have been incurred and that will be incurred to treat
    Zyprexa-related illnesses. In 2009, we incurred pretax charges
    of $230.0 million, reflecting the probable and estimable
    exposures in connection with these claims. We have reached
    settlements or are in advanced discussions to settle all of the
    remaining state claims. The Pennsylvania case is set for trial
    in April 2010 in state court.

Health care reform is currently the subject of intense debate in
    the U.S. Congress. The impact of reform on the
    pharmaceutical industry is uncertain. Most reform proposals
    intend to provide coverage for the uninsured, include increasing
    existing price rebates in federally funded health care programs
    and the expansion of rebates, or other pharmaceutical company
    discounts, into new programs. There are also proposals that will
    impose new fees on pharmaceutical industry sales of certain
    prescription pharmaceutical products. Certain federal and state
    health care reform proposals that go beyond providing additional
    health insurance coverage for the uninsured may also place
    downward pressure on pharmaceutical industry sales or prices.
    These proposals include reducing incentives for
    employer-sponsored health care;

20   

the creation of an independent commission to propose changes to
    Medicare, with a particular focus on the cost of
    biopharmaceuticals in Medicare Part D, which lowers the
    projections for future government spending in Medicare; and a
    government-run public option with biopharmaceutical
    price-setting capabilities. Additionally, various proposals
    could legalize the importation of prescription drugs and either
    allow, or require, the Secretary of Health and Human Services to
    negotiate drug prices within Medicare Part D directly with
    pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition, the federal
    government is considering creating an expedited regulatory
    approval pathway for biosimilars (copies of biological
    compounds) for biologic products in the U.S.; the proposals vary
    as to which biologic products would be eligible, how quickly a
    biosimilar might reach the market, and the ability to
    interchange the biosimilar and the original biologic product at
    the pharmacy. We expect pricing pressures at the federal and
    state levels to become more severe, which could have a material
    adverse effect on our consolidated results of operations.

In its budget submission to Congress in February 2010, the Obama
    administration proposed changes to the manner in which the
    U.S. would tax the international income of
     U.S.-based 
    companies. While it is uncertain how the U.S. Congress may
    address this issue, reform of U.S. taxation, including
    taxation of international income, continues to be a topic of
    discussion for the U.S. Congress. A significant change to
    the U.S. tax system, including changes to the taxation of
    international income, could have a material adverse effect on
    our consolidated results of operations.

International operations also are generally subject to extensive
    price and market regulations, and there are many proposals for
    additional cost-containment measures, including proposals that
    would directly or indirectly impose additional price controls,
    limit access to or reimbursement for our products, or reduce the
    value of our intellectual property protection. These proposals
    are expected to increase in both frequency and impact, given the
    effect of the downturn in the global economy on local
    governments.

OPERATING
    RESULTS 2009  

Revenue  

Our worldwide revenue for 2009 increased 7 percent, to
    $21.84 billion, driven primarily by growth of Alimta,
    Cymbalta, Humalog, and Zyprexa, and the inclusion of Erbitux
    revenue as a result of the ImClone acquisition. Worldwide sales
    volume increased 7 percent, while selling prices
    contributed 3 percent of revenue growth, partially offset
    by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates of
    3 percent. Revenue in the U.S. increased
    12 percent, to $12.29 billion, due to higher prices
    and higher demand. Revenue outside the U.S. increased
    1 percent, to $9.54 billion, due to increased demand,
    partially offset by the negative impact of foreign exchange
    rates and lower prices.

The following table summarizes our revenue activity in 2009
    compared with 2008:

1 

U.S. revenue includes revenue in Puerto Rico.

2 

Collaboration and other revenue is primarily composed of Erbitux
    royalties and 50 percent of Byetta s gross margin in
    the U.S.

3 

Numbers may not add due to rounding.

21   

Zyprexa, our top-selling product, is a treatment for
    schizophrenia, acute mixed or manic episodes associated with
    bipolar I disorder, and bipolar maintenance. Zyprexa sales in
    the U.S. increased 6 percent in 2009, due to higher
    prices, partially offset by reduced demand. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 4 percent driven by increased demand,
    partially offset by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange
    rates. Demand outside the U.S. was favorably impacted by
    the withdrawal of generic competition in Germany in early 2009.

Sales of Cymbalta, a product for the treatment of major
    depressive disorder, diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain,
    generalized anxiety disorder, and fibromyalgia, increased
    13 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices and
    increased demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased
    18 percent, driven by increased demand, partially offset by
    the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and lower
    prices.

Sales of Humalog, our injectable human insulin analog for the
    treatment of diabetes, increased 20 percent in the U.S.,
    driven by higher prices, increased demand, and wholesaler buying
    patterns. Sales outside the U.S. increased 3 percent,
    driven by increased demand, partially offset by the unfavorable
    impact of foreign exchange rates.

Sales of Alimta, a treatment for various cancers, increased
    45 percent in the U.S., primarily driven by increased
    demand. Sales outside the U.S. increased 50 percent,
    driven by increased demand, partially offset by the unfavorable
    impact of foreign exchange rates. Demand outside the
    U.S. benefited from the addition of the non-small cell lung
    cancer indication in Japan.

Our sales of Cialis, a treatment for erectile dysfunction,
    increased 16 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices,
    increased demand, and wholesaler buying patterns. Sales outside
    the U.S. increased 3 percent, driven by increased
    demand and to a lesser extent, higher prices, partially offset
    by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates.

Sales of Gemzar, a product approved to treat various cancers,
    increased 2 percent in the U.S., due primarily to higher
    prices. Sales outside the U.S. decreased 37 percent,
    driven by reduced demand and lower prices as a result of the
    entry of generic competition in most major markets, and to a
    lesser extent, the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates.

Sales of Evista, a product for the prevention and treatment of
    osteoporosis in postmenopausal women and for reduction of risk
    of invasive breast cancer in postmenopausal women with
    osteoporosis and postmenopausal women at high risk for invasive
    breast cancer, decreased 3 percent in the U.S., driven by
    reduced demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales outside
    the U.S. decreased 7 percent, driven by the
    outlicensing of Evista in most European markets and, to a lesser
    extent, lower prices.

Sales of Humulin, an injectable human insulin for the treatment
    of diabetes, increased 6 percent in the U.S., due primarily
    to higher prices, partially offset by reduced demand. Sales
    outside the U.S. decreased 9 percent, driven by the
    unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates and, to a lesser
    extent, lower prices, partially offset by increased demand.

Sales of Forteo, an injectable treatment for osteoporosis in
    postmenopausal women and men at high risk for fracture,
    increased 6 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices,
    partially offset by reduced demand. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 3 percent, driven by increased demand
    and prices, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of
    foreign exchange rates.

Sales of Strattera, a treatment for attention-deficit
    hyperactivity disorder in children, adolescents, and adults,
    increased 2 percent in the U.S., driven by higher prices,
    partially offset by reduced demand. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 15 percent, driven by increased demand
    and higher prices, partially offset by the unfavorable impact of
    foreign exchange rates.

Worldwide sales of Byetta, an injectable product for the
    treatment of type 2 diabetes, increased 6 percent to
    $796.5 million during 2009. We report as revenue our
    50 percent share of Byetta s gross margin in the U.S.,
    100 percent of Byetta sales outside the U.S., and our sales
    of Byetta pen delivery devices to Amylin. Our revenues increased
    13 percent to $448.5 million in 2009.

We report as revenue for Erbitux, a product approved to treat
    various cancers, the net royalties received from our
    collaboration partners and our product sales. Our revenues were
    $390.8 million in 2009, compared with $29.4 million in
    2008. We acquired Erbitux as part of our acquisition of ImClone
    in November 2008.

Animal health product sales in the U.S. increased
    25 percent, primarily driven by the inclusion of Posilac
    sales following the acquisition completed October 2008. Sales
    outside the U.S. decreased 4 percent, driven primarily
    by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates.

Gross
    Margin, Costs, and Expenses  

The 2009 gross margin increased to 80.6 percent of
    total revenue compared with 78.5 percent for 2008. This
    increase was due to the impact of changes in foreign currencies
    compared to the U.S. dollar on

22   

international inventories sold during the year, which decreased
    cost of sales as in 2009, but increased cost of sales in 2008.

Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased
    4 percent in 2009 to $6.89 billion. The increase was
    driven by the increased marketing and selling expenses outside
    the U.S., higher incentive compensation, and the impact of the
    ImClone acquisition, partially offset by the movement of foreign
    exchange rates. Investment in research and development increased
    13 percent, to $4.33 billion, due primarily to the
    ImClone acquisition and increased late-stage clinical trial
    costs.

We incurred an IPR D charge of $90.0 million in 2009,
    associated with the in-licensing agreement with Incyte, compared
    with $4.84 billion in 2008. The 2008 IPR D charge
    included $4.69 billion resulting from the acquisition of
    ImClone. We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and
    other special charges of $692.7 million in 2009, primarily
    related to asset impairment charges related to the sale of our
    Tippecanoe Laboratories manufacturing site and special charges
    related to Zyprexa litigation with multiple state attorneys
    general, compared with $1.97 billion in 2008. The 2008
    charges were primarily associated with the resolution of Zyprexa
    investigations with the U.S. Attorney for the EDPA and
    multiple states. See Notes 3, 5 and 14 to the consolidated
    financial statements for additional information.

Other net, expense, (income) was a net expense in both
    years, increasing by $203.4 million, to $229.5 million
    in 2009, primarily due to lower interest income and higher
    interest expense resulting from the ImClone acquisition.

We incurred income tax expense of $1.03 billion in 2009
    resulting in an effective tax rate of 19.2 percent. The
    effective tax rate for 2009 was reduced due to the tax benefit
    of asset impairment and restructuring charges associated with
    the sale of the Tippecanoe site. We incurred tax expense of
    $764.3 million in 2008, despite having a loss before income
    taxes of $1.31 billion. Our net loss was driven by the
    $4.69 billion IPR D charge for ImClone and the
    $1.48 billion Zyprexa investigation settlements. The
    IPR D charge was not tax deductible, and only a portion of
    the Zyprexa investigation settlements was deductible. In
    addition, we recorded tax expense associated with the ImClone
    acquisition, as well as a discrete income tax benefit of
    $210.3 million for the resolution of a substantial portion
    of the
     2001-2004 
    IRS audit. See Note 12 to the consolidated financial
    statements for additional information.

OPERATING
    RESULTS 2008  

Financial
    Results  

We achieved worldwide sales growth of 9 percent, which was
    primarily driven by volume increases in several key products.
    The favorable impact of foreign exchange rates on cost of sales
    contributed to an improvement in gross margin. Marketing,
    selling, and administrative expenses grew at the same rate as
    sales, driven by pre-launch activities associated with Effient,
    marketing costs associated with Cymbalta and Evista, the impact
    of foreign exchange rates, and increased litigation-related
    expenses, while our investment in research and development grew
    10 percent. We completed our acquisition of ImClone,
    resulting in a significant charge of $4.69 billion for
    IPR D and reached resolution on government investigations
    related to our past U.S. marketing and promotional
    practices for Zyprexa, resulting in an additional charge of
    $1.48 billion. We incurred tax expense of
    $764.3 million, despite a loss before income taxes of
    $1.31 billion, primarily caused by the non-deductibility of
    the ImClone IPR D charge and the partial deductibility of
    the Zyprexa investigation settlements. Accordingly, earnings
    decreased to a net loss of $2.07 billion, and earnings per
    share decreased to a loss of $1.89 per share, in 2008 as
    compared with net income of $2.95 billion, and earnings per
    share of $2.71, in 2007. Net income comparisons between 2008 and
    2007 are affected by the impact of several significant items.
    The significant items for 2008 are summarized in the Executive
    Overview. The 2007 items are summarized as follows:

Acquisitions (Note 3)

We incurred IPR D charges associated with the acquisitions
    of ICOS Corporation (ICOS), Hypnion, Inc. (Hypnion), and
    Ivy Animal Health, Inc. (Ivy), totaling $631.6 million
    (pretax), which decreased earnings per share by $.57.

We incurred IPR D charges associated with our licensing
    arrangements with Glenmark Pharmaceuticals Limited India,
    MacroGenics, Inc., and OSI Pharmaceuticals, totaling
    $114.0 million (pretax), which decreased earnings per share
    by $.06.

Asset Impairments and Related Restructuring and Other Special
    Charges (Notes 5 and 14)

We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other
    special charges of $190.6 million (pretax), which decreased
    earnings per share by $.12. These charges were primarily
    associated with previously announced strategic decisions
    affecting manufacturing and research facilities.

We incurred a special charge following a settlement with one of
    our insurance carriers over Zyprexa product liability claims,
    which led to a reduction of our expected product liability
    insurance recoveries, and other product liability charges. This
    resulted in a charge totaling $111.9 million (pretax),
    which decreased earnings per share by $.09.

23   

Revenue  

Our worldwide revenue for 2008 increased 9 percent, to
    $20.37 billion, driven primarily by growth of Cymbalta,
    Cialis, Alimta, Humalog, and Gemzar. Worldwide sales volume
    increased 5 percent, while foreign exchange rates
    contributed 3 percent, and selling prices contributed
    2 percent. (Numbers do not add due to rounding.) Revenue in
    the U.S. increased 8 percent, to $10.93 billion,
    driven primarily by increased sales of Cymbalta, Humalog,
    Cialis, and Alimta. Revenue outside the U.S. increased
    11 percent, to $9.44 billion, driven primarily by
    revenue growth of Alimta, Cialis, Cymbalta, and Humalog.

The following table summarizes our revenue activity in 2008
    compared with 2007:

1 

U.S. revenue includes revenue in Puerto Rico.

2 

Prior to the acquisition of ICOS in late January 2007, the
    Cialis revenue shown does not include net product sales in the
    joint-venture territories of Lilly ICOS LLC (North America,
    excluding Puerto Rico, and Europe). Our share of the
    joint-venture territory net product sales for January 2007, net
    of expenses and income taxes, is reported in
    other   net, expense (income) in our consolidated
    statements of operations. Subsequent to the acquisition, all
    Cialis net product sales are reported in our net revenue.
    Worldwide 2008 revenue for Cialis grew 19 percent from 2007
    revenue of $1.22 billion.

3 

Collaboration and other revenue is primarily composed of
    50 percent of Byetta s gross margin in the U.S.

Zyprexa sales in the U.S. decreased 1 percent in 2008,
    driven by reduced demand, partially offset by higher prices.
    Sales outside the U.S. decreased 1 percent, driven by
    decreased demand and, to a lesser extent, lower prices,
    partially offset by the favorable impact of foreign exchange
    rates. Demand outside the U.S. was unfavorably impacted by
    generic competition in Germany and Canada.

Sales of Cymbalta increased 23 percent in the U.S., driven
    by increased demand and, to a lesser extent, higher prices.
    Sales outside the U.S. increased 66 percent, driven by
    increased demand and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact
    of foreign exchange rates and higher prices. Higher demand
    outside the U.S. reflects increased demand in established
    markets as well as recent launches in new markets.

Sales of Humalog increased 14 percent in the U.S., driven
    by increased demand and higher prices. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 24 percent, driven by increased demand
    and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign
    exchange rates.

Sales of Gemzar increased 10 percent in the U.S., driven by
    increased demand and higher prices. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 7 percent, driven primarily by the
    favorable impact of foreign exchange rates and, to a lesser
    extent, increased demand, partially offset by lower prices.

Sales of Cialis increased 27 percent in the U.S., driven by
    increased demand and higher prices. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 26 percent, driven by increased demand
    and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign
    exchange rates and higher prices. Total worldwide sales of
    Cialis increased 19 percent

24   

to $1.44 billion in 2008 as compared to $1.22 billion
    in 2007. This includes $72.7 million of sales in the Lilly
    ICOS joint-venture territories for the 2007 period prior to the
    acquisition of ICOS.

Sales of Alimta increased 25 percent in the U.S., driven by
    increased demand and, to a lesser extent, higher prices. Sales
    outside the U.S. increased 46 percent, driven by
    increased demand and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact
    of foreign exchange rates.

Sales of Evista decreased 1 percent in the U.S., driven by
    decreased demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales
    outside the U.S. decreased 2 percent, driven by
    reduced demand and lower prices, partially offset by the
    favorable impact of foreign exchange rates.

Sales of Humulin increased 4 percent in the U.S., driven by
    higher prices. Sales outside the U.S. increased
    10 percent, driven by the favorable impact of foreign
    exchange rates and increased demand.

Sales of Forteo decreased 1 percent in the U.S., driven by
    decreased demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales
    outside the U.S. increased 34 percent, driven by
    increased demand and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact
    of foreign exchange rates.

Sales of Strattera decreased 6 percent in the U.S., driven
    by decreased demand, partially offset by higher prices. Sales
    outside the U.S. increased 35 percent, driven
    primarily by increased demand.

Worldwide sales of Byetta increased 16 percent to
    $751.4 million during 2008. Our revenues increased
    20 percent to $396.1 million in 2008.

Animal health product sales in the U.S. increased
    12 percent, driven by the inclusion of U.S. Posilac
    sales since the date of acquisition. Sales outside the
    U.S. increased 8 percent, driven by increased demand
    and, to a lesser extent, the favorable impact of foreign
    exchange rates.

Gross
    Margin, Costs, and Expenses  

The 2008 gross margin increased to 78.5 percent of
    total revenue compared with 77.2 percent for 2007. This
    increase was primarily due to the favorable impact of foreign
    exchange rates.

Marketing, selling, and administrative expenses increased
    9 percent in 2008, to $6.63 billion. This increase was
    due to increased marketing and selling expenses, including
    prelaunch expenses for Effient and marketing costs associated
    with Cymbalta and Evista; the impact of foreign exchange rates;
    and increased litigation-related expenses. Investment in
    research and development increased 10 percent, to
    $3.84 billion, due to increased late-stage clinical trial
    and discovery research costs.

Acquired IPR D charges related to the acquisitions of
    ImClone and SGX, as well as our in-licensing arrangements with
    BioMS and TransPharma, were $4.84 billion in 2008 as
    compared to $745.6 million in 2007. We recognized asset
    impairments, restructuring, and other special charges of
    $1.97 billion in 2008, as compared to $302.5 million
    in 2007. The 2008 charges were primarily associated with the
    resolution of Zyprexa investigations with the U.S. Attorney
    for the EDPA and multiple states. See Notes 3, 5 and 14 to
    the consolidated financial statements for additional information.

Other   net, expense (income) changed from net income
    of $122.0 million in 2007 to net expense of
    $26.1 million in 2008, primarily as a result of lower
    outlicensing income and increased net losses on investment
    securities in 2008 (the majority of which consisted of
    unrealized losses).

We incurred tax expense of $764.3 million in 2008, despite
    having a loss before income taxes of $1.31 billion. Our net
    loss was driven by the $4.69 billion acquired IPR D
    charge for ImClone and the $1.48 billion Zyprexa
    investigation settlements. The IPR D charge was not tax
    deductible, and only a portion of the Zyprexa investigation
    settlements was deductible. In addition, we recorded tax expense
    associated with the ImClone acquisition, as well as a discrete
    income tax benefit of $210.3 million for the resolution of
    a substantial portion of the
     2001-2004 
    IRS audit. The effective tax rate was 23.8 percent in 2007.
    See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements for
    additional information.

FINANCIAL
    CONDITION  

As of December 31, 2009, cash, cash equivalents, and
    short-term investments totaled $4.50 billion compared with
    $5.93 billion at December 31, 2008. The decrease in
    cash was driven by a reduction in short-term borrowings of
    $5.82 billion and dividends paid of $2.15 billion,
    partially offset by cash from operations of $4.34 billion
    (which included payments related to the Zyprexa EDPA settlement
    of $1.39 billion) and proceeds of long-term debt issuances
    of $2.40 billion.

Capital expenditures of $765.0 million during 2009 were
    $182.2 million less than in 2008. We expect 2010 capital
    expenditures to be approximately $1.0 billion as we invest
    in our biotechnology capabilities, continue to upgrade our
    manufacturing and research facilities to enhance productivity
    and quality systems, and invest in the long-term growth of our
    diabetes care products.

Total debt at December 31, 2009, was $6.66 billion, a
    decrease of $3.80 billion from December 31, 2008
    reflecting the pay-down of our commercial paper that was issued
    to finance our acquisition of ImClone, partially offset by
    $2.40 billion of long-term debt we issued in March 2009.
    Our current debt ratings from Standard   Poor s
    and Moody s remain at AA and A1, respectively.

25   

Dividends of $1.96 per share were paid in 2009, an increase of
    4 percent from 2008. In the fourth quarter of 2009,
    effective for the first-quarter dividend in 2010, the quarterly
    dividend was maintained at $.49 per share, resulting in an
    indicated annual rate for 2010 of $1.96 per share. The year 2009
    was the 125th consecutive year in which we made dividend
    payments.

Despite increasing unemployment and declines in real consumer
    spending, consumer confidence has grown and job losses have
    slowed during the second half of 2009. Many financial
    institutions continue to have tightened lines of credit, thus
    reducing funding available to stimulate near-term economic
    growth. While there are some positive signs, the prospects for
    recovery are uncertain. Pharmaceutical consumption has
    traditionally been relatively unaffected by economic downturns;
    however, an extended downturn could lead to a decline in overall
    prescriptions corresponding to the growth of the uninsured and
    underinsured population in the U.S. In addition, both
    private and public health care payers are facing heightened
    fiscal challenges due to the economic slowdown and are taking
    aggressive steps to reduce the costs of care, including
    pressures for increased pharmaceutical discounts and rebates and
    efforts to drive greater use of generic drugs. We continue to
    monitor the potential near-term impact of prescription trends,
    the creditworthiness of our wholesalers and other customers and
    suppliers, the evolving health care debate, the federal
    government s involvement in the economic crisis, and
    various international government funding levels.

We believe that cash generated from operations, along with
    available cash and cash equivalents, will be sufficient to fund
    our normal operating needs, including debt service, capital
    expenditures, costs associated with litigation and government
    investigations, and dividends in 2010. We believe that amounts
    accessible through existing commercial paper markets should be
    adequate to fund short-term borrowings. Our access to credit
    markets has not been adversely affected by the illiquidity in
    the markets because of the high credit quality of our short- and
    long-term debt. We currently have $1.24 billion of unused
    committed bank credit facilities, $1.20 billion of which
    backs our commercial paper program and matures in May 2011.
    Various risks and uncertainties, including those discussed in
    Item 1A,  Risk Factors,  may affect our operating
    results and cash generated from operations.

We depend on patents or other forms of intellectual property
    protection for most of our revenues, cash flows, and earnings.
    In the next three years we will lose effective exclusivity for
    Zyprexa in major European countries (September 2011) and
    the U.S. (October 2011); and for Humalog in major European
    countries (November 2010). Gemzar has already lost effective
    exclusivity in major European countries. In addition, we face
    U.S. patent litigation over several key patent-protected
    products whose exclusivity extends beyond 2012, including
    Alimta, Cymbalta, Evista, Gemzar, and Strattera and it is
    possible we could face an unexpected loss of our effective
    exclusivity for one or more of these products prior to the end
    of 2012. Revenue from each of these products contributes
    materially to our results of operations, liquidity, and
    financial position, and the loss of exclusivity could result in
    a rapid and severe decline in revenue from the affected product.
    However, we plan to mitigate the effect on our operations,
    liquidity and financial position through growth in our remaining
    business and the previously announced plan to reduce our
    expected cost structure by $1 billion by the end of 2011.

In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to
    fluctuations in interest rates and currency values. These
    fluctuations can vary the costs of financing, investing, and
    operating. We address a portion of these risks through a
    controlled program of risk management that includes the use of
    derivative financial instruments. The objective of controlling
    these risks is to limit the impact on earnings of fluctuations
    in interest and currency exchange rates. All derivative
    activities are for purposes other than trading.

Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in
    short-term U.S. dollar interest rates. In an effort to
    manage interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an
    acceptable balance between fixed and floating rate debt
    positions and may enter into interest rate derivatives to help
    maintain that balance. Based on our overall interest rate
    exposure at December 31, 2009 and 2008, including
    derivatives and other interest rate risk-sensitive instruments,
    a hypothetical 10 percent change in interest rates applied
    to the fair value of the instruments as of December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively, would have no material impact on
    earnings, cash flows, or fair values of interest rate
    risk-sensitive instruments over a one-year period.

Our foreign currency risk exposure results from fluctuating
    currency exchange rates, primarily the U.S. dollar against
    the euro and the Japanese yen, and the British pound against the
    euro. We face transactional currency exposures that arise when
    we enter into transactions, generally on an intercompany basis,
    denominated in currencies other than the local currency. We also
    face currency exposure that arises from translating the results
    of our global operations to the U.S. dollar at exchange
    rates that have fluctuated from the beginning of the period. We
    may use forward contracts and purchased options to manage our
    foreign currency exposures. Our policy outlines the minimum and
    maximum hedge coverage of such exposures. Gains and losses on
    these derivative positions offset, in part, the impact of
    currency fluctuations on the existing assets, liabilities,
    commitments, and anticipated revenues. Considering our
    derivative financial instruments outstanding at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, a hypothetical 10 percent
    change in exchange rates (primarily against the
    U.S. dollar) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008,

26   

respectively, would have no material impact on earnings, cash
    flows, or fair values of foreign currency rate risk-sensitive
    instruments over a one-year period. These calculations do not
    reflect the impact of the exchange gains or losses on the
    underlying positions that would be offset, in part, by the
    results of the derivative instruments.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations  

We have no off-balance sheet arrangements that have a material
    current effect or that are reasonably likely to have a material
    future effect on our financial condition, changes in financial
    condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations,
    liquidity, capital expenditures, or capital resources. We
    acquire and collaborate on assets still in development and enter
    into research and development arrangements with third parties
    that often require milestone and royalty payments to the third
    party contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events
    linked to the success of the asset in development. Milestone
    payments may be required contingent upon the successful
    achievement of an important point in the development life cycle
    of the pharmaceutical product (e.g., approval of the product for
    marketing by the appropriate regulatory agency or upon the
    achievement of certain sales levels). If required by the
    arrangement, we may have to make royalty payments based upon a
    percentage of the sales of the pharmaceutical product in the
    event that regulatory approval for marketing is obtained.
    Because of the contingent nature of these payments, they are not
    included in the table of contractual obligations.

Individually, these arrangements are not material in any one
    annual reporting period. However, if milestones for multiple
    products covered by these arrangements would happen to be
    reached in the same reporting period, the aggregate charge to
    expense could be material to the results of operations in any
    one period. These arrangements often give us the discretion to
    unilaterally terminate development of the product, which would
    allow us to avoid making the contingent payments; however, we
    are unlikely to cease development if the compound successfully
    achieves clinical testing objectives. We also note that, from a
    business perspective, we view these payments as positive because
    they signify that the product is successfully moving through
    development and is now generating or is more likely to generate
    cash flows from sales of products.

Our current noncancelable contractual obligations that will
    require future cash payments are as follows (in millions):

1 

Our long-term debt obligations include both our expected
    principal and interest obligations and our interest rate swaps.
    We used the interest rate forward curve at December 31,
    2009 to compute the amount of the contractual obligation for
    interest on the variable rate debt instruments and swaps.

2 

We have included the following:

Purchase obligations, consisting primarily of all open purchase
    orders at our significant operating locations as of
    December 31, 2009. Some of these purchase orders may be
    cancelable; however, for purposes of this disclosure, we have
    not distinguished between cancelable and noncancelable purchase
    obligations.

Contractual payment obligations with each of our significant
    vendors, which are noncancelable and are not contingent.

3 

We have included long-term liabilities consisting primarily of
    our nonqualified supplemental pension funding requirements and
    deferred compensation liabilities. We excluded liabilities for
    unrecognized tax benefits of $1,088.4 million, as we cannot
    reasonably estimate the timing of future cash outflows
    associated with those liabilities.

4 

This category comprises primarily minimum pension funding
    requirements.

27   

The contractual obligations table is current as of
    December 31, 2009. We expect the amount of these
    obligations to change materially over time as new contracts are
    initiated and existing contracts are completed, terminated, or
    modified.

APPLICATION
    OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES  

In preparing our financial statements in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), we must often
    make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts
    of assets, liabilities, revenues, expenses, and related
    disclosures. Some of those judgments can be subjective and
    complex, and consequently actual results could differ from those
    estimates. For any given individual estimate or assumption we
    make, it is possible that other people applying reasonable
    judgment to the same facts and circumstances could develop
    different estimates. We believe that, given current facts and
    circumstances, it is unlikely that applying any such other
    reasonable judgment would cause a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated results of operations, financial position, or
    liquidity for the periods presented in this report. Our most
    critical accounting policies have been discussed with our audit
    committee and are described below.

Revenue
    Recognition and Sales Return, Rebate, and Discount
    Accruals  

We recognize revenue from sales of products at the time title of
    goods passes to the buyer and the buyer assumes the risks and
    rewards of ownership. For more than 85 percent of our
    sales, this is at the time products are shipped to the customer,
    typically a wholesale distributor or a major retail chain. The
    remaining sales, which are outside the U.S., are recorded at the
    point of delivery. Provisions for returns, rebates, and
    discounts are established in the same period the related sales
    are recorded.

We regularly review the supply levels of our significant
    products sold to major wholesalers in the U.S. and in major
    markets outside the U.S., primarily by reviewing periodic
    inventory reports supplied by our major wholesalers and
    available prescription volume information for our products, or
    alternative approaches. We attempt to maintain wholesaler
    inventory levels at an average of approximately one month or
    less on a consistent basis across our product portfolio. Causes
    of unusual wholesaler buying patterns include actual or
    anticipated product supply issues, weather patterns, anticipated
    changes in the transportation network, redundant holiday
    stocking, and changes in wholesaler business operations. In the
    U.S., the current structure of our arrangements does not provide
    an incentive for speculative wholesaler buying and provides us
    with data on inventory levels at our wholesalers. When we
    believe wholesaler purchasing patterns have caused an unusual
    increase or decrease in the sales of a major product compared
    with underlying demand, we disclose this in our product sales
    discussion if we believe the amount is material to the product
    sales trend; however, we are not always able to accurately
    quantify the amount of stocking or destocking. Wholesaler
    stocking and destocking activity historically has not caused any
    material changes in the rate of actual product returns.

We establish sales return accruals for anticipated product
    returns. We record the return amounts as a deduction to arrive
    at our net product sales. Once the product is returned, it is
    destroyed. Consistent with Revenue Recognition accounting
    guidance, we estimate a reserve when the sales occur for future
    product returns related to those sales. This estimate is
    primarily based on historical return rates as well as
    specifically identified anticipated returns due to known
    business conditions and product expiry dates. Actual product
    returns have been less than one percent of our net sales over
    the past three years and have not fluctuated significantly as a
    percent of sales.

We establish sales rebate and discount accruals in the same
    period as the related sales. The rebate and discount amounts are
    recorded as a deduction to arrive at our net product sales.
    Sales rebates and discounts that require the use of judgment in
    the establishment of the accrual include Medicaid, managed care,
    Medicare, chargebacks, long-term-care, hospital, patient
    assistance programs, and various other government programs. We
    base these accruals primarily upon our historical rebate and
    discount payments made to our customer segment groups and the
    provisions of current rebate and discount contracts.

The largest of our sales rebate and discount amounts are rebates
    associated with sales covered by Medicaid. In determining the
    appropriate accrual amount, we consider our historical Medicaid
    rebate payments by product as a percentage of our historical
    sales as well as any significant changes in sales trends, an
    evaluation of the current Medicaid rebate laws and
    interpretations, the percentage of our products that are sold to
    Medicaid recipients, and our product pricing and current rebate
    and discount contracts. Although we accrue a liability for
    Medicaid rebates at the time we record the sale (when the
    product is shipped), the Medicaid rebate related to that sale is
    typically paid up to six months later. Because of this time lag,
    in any particular period our rebate adjustments may incorporate
    revisions of accruals for several periods.

Most of our rebates outside the U.S. are contractual or
    legislatively mandated and are estimated and recognized in the
    same period as the related sales. In some large European
    countries, government rebates are based on the anticipated
    pharmaceutical budget deficit in the country. A best estimate of
    these

28   

rebates, updated as governmental authorities revise budgeted
    deficits, is recognized in the same period as the related sale.
    If our estimates are not reflective of the actual pharmaceutical
    budget deficit, we adjust our rebate reserves.

We believe that our accruals for sales returns, rebates, and
    discounts are reasonable and appropriate based on current facts
    and circumstances. U.S. sales returns, federally mandated
    Medicaid rebate and state pharmaceutical assistance programs
    (Medicaid) and Medicare rebates reduced sales by
    $1.20 billion, $1.03 billion, and $738.8 million
    in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. A 5 percent change
    in the sales return, Medicaid, and Medicare rebate amounts we
    recognized in 2009 would lead to an approximate $60 million
    effect on our income before income taxes. As of
    December 31, 2009, our sales returns, Medicaid, and
    Medicare rebate liability was $692.3 million.

Our global rebate and discount liabilities are included in sales
    rebates and discounts on our consolidated balance sheet. Our
    global sales return liability is included in other current
    liabilities and other noncurrent liabilities on our consolidated
    balance sheet. Approximately 84 percent and 80 percent
    of our global sales return, rebate, and discount liability
    resulted from sales of our products in the U.S. as of
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following
    represents a roll-forward of our most significant
    U.S. returns, rebate, and discount liability balances,
    including Medicaid (in millions):

1  

Adjustments of the estimates for these returns, rebates, and
    discounts to actual results were less than 0.1 percent of
    net sales for each of the years presented.

Product
    Litigation Liabilities and Other Contingencies  

Product litigation liabilities and other contingencies are, by
    their nature, uncertain and are based upon complex judgments and
    probabilities. The factors we consider in developing our product
    litigation liability reserves and other contingent liability
    amounts include the merits and jurisdiction of the litigation,
    the nature and the number of other similar current and past
    litigation cases, the nature of the product and the current
    assessment of the science subject to the litigation, and the
    likelihood of settlement and current state of settlement
    discussions, if any. In addition, we accrue for certain product
    liability claims incurred, but not filed, to the extent we can
    formulate a reasonable estimate of their costs. We estimate
    these expenses based primarily on historical claims experience
    and data regarding product usage. We accrue legal defense costs
    expected to be incurred in connection with significant product
    liability contingencies when probable and reasonably estimable.

We also consider the insurance coverage we have to diminish the
    exposure for periods covered by insurance. In assessing our
    insurance coverage, we consider the policy coverage limits and
    exclusions, the potential for denial of coverage by the
    insurance company, the financial condition of the insurers, and
    the possibility of and length of time for collection. In the
    past few years, we have been unable to obtain product liability
    insurance due to a very restrictive insurance market. Therefore,
    for substantially all of our currently marketed products, we
    have been and expect that we will continue to be completely
    self-insured for future product liability losses. In addition,
    there can be no assurance that we will be able to fully collect
    from our insurance carriers in the future.

The litigation accruals and environmental liabilities and the
    related estimated insurance recoverables have been reflected on
    a gross basis as liabilities and assets, respectively, on our
    consolidated balance sheets.

We believe that the accruals and related insurance recoveries we
    have established for product litigation liabilities and other
    contingencies are appropriate based on current facts and
    circumstances.

Pension
    and Retiree Medical Plan Assumptions  

Pension benefit costs include assumptions for the discount rate,
    retirement age, and expected return on plan assets. Retiree
    medical plan costs include assumptions for the discount rate,
    retirement age, expected return on plan assets, and
    health-care-cost trend rates. These assumptions have a
    significant effect on the amounts reported. In addition to the
    analysis below, see Note 13 to the consolidated financial
    statements for additional information regarding our retirement
    benefits.

Periodically, we evaluate the discount rate and the expected
    return on plan assets in our defined benefit pension and retiree
    health benefit plans. In evaluating these assumptions, we
    consider many factors, including an evaluation of the discount
    rates, expected return on plan assets, and health-care-cost
    trend

29   

rates of other companies; our historical assumptions compared
    with actual results; an analysis of current market conditions
    and asset allocations (approximately 88 percent of which
    are growth investments); and the views of leading financial
    advisers and economists. We use an actuarially determined,
    company-specific yield curve to determine the discount rate. In
    evaluating our expected retirement age assumption, we consider
    the retirement ages of our past employees eligible for pension
    and medical benefits together with our expectations of future
    retirement ages.

We believe our pension and retiree medical plan assumptions are
    appropriate based upon the above factors. If the
    health-care-cost trend rates were to be increased by one
    percentage point each future year, the aggregate of the service
    cost and interest cost components of the 2009 annual expense
    would increase by $18.9 million. A one-percentage-point
    decrease would lower the aggregate of the 2009 service cost and
    interest cost by $15.8 million. If the 2009 discount rate
    for the U.S. defined benefit pension and retiree health
    benefit plans (U.S. plans) were to be changed by a quarter
    percentage point, income before income taxes would change by
    $23.6 million. If the 2009 expected return on plan assets
    for U.S. plans were to be changed by a quarter percentage
    point, income before income taxes would change by
    $16.8 million. If our assumption regarding the 2009
    expected age of future retirees for U.S. plans were
    adjusted by one year, our income before income taxes would be
    affected by $27.7 million. The U.S. plans represent
    approximately 82 percent of the total accumulated
    postretirement benefit obligation and approximately
    83 percent of total plan assets at December 31, 2009.

Impairment
    of Long-Lived Assets  

We review the carrying value of long-lived assets (both
    intangible and tangible) for potential impairment on a periodic
    basis and whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate
    the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We
    determine impairment by comparing the projected undiscounted
    cash flows to be generated by the asset to its carrying value.
    If an impairment is identified, a loss is recorded equal to the
    excess of the asset s net book value over its fair value,
    and the cost basis is adjusted. The estimated future cash flows,
    based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections,
    require management s judgment. Actual results could vary
    from these estimates.

Income
    Taxes  

We prepare and file tax returns based on our interpretation of
    tax laws and regulations and record estimates based on these
    judgments and interpretations. In the normal course of business,
    our tax returns are subject to examination by various taxing
    authorities, which may result in future tax, interest, and
    penalty assessments by these authorities. Inherent uncertainties
    exist in estimates of many tax positions due to changes in tax
    law resulting from legislation, regulation,
     and/or  as
    concluded through the various jurisdictions  tax court
    systems. We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax
    position only if it is more likely than not that the tax
    position will be sustained on examination by the taxing
    authorities, based on the technical merits of the position. The
    tax benefits recognized in the financial statements from such a
    position are measured based on the largest benefit that has a
    greater than 50 percent likelihood of being realized upon
    ultimate resolution. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits is
    adjusted for changes in facts and circumstances. For example,
    adjustments could result from significant amendments to existing
    tax law and the issuance of regulations or interpretations by
    the taxing authorities, new information obtained during a tax
    examination, or resolution of an examination. We believe that
    our estimates for uncertain tax positions are appropriate and
    sufficient to pay assessments that may result from examinations
    of our tax returns. We recognize both accrued interest and
    penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax
    expense.

We have recorded valuation allowances against certain of our
    deferred tax assets, primarily those that have been generated
    from net operating losses and tax credit carryforwards in
    certain taxing jurisdictions. In evaluating whether we would
    more likely than not recover these deferred tax assets, we have
    not assumed any future taxable income or tax planning strategies
    in the jurisdictions associated with these carryforwards where
    history does not support such an assumption. Implementation of
    tax planning strategies to recover these deferred tax assets or
    future income generation in these jurisdictions could lead to
    the reversal of these valuation allowances and a reduction of
    income tax expense.

We believe that our estimates for the uncertain tax positions
    and valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets are
    appropriate based on current facts and circumstances. A
    5 percent change in the amount of the uncertain tax
    positions and the valuation allowance would result in a change
    in net income of $41.8 million and $41.8 million,
    respectively.

FINANCIAL
    EXPECTATIONS FOR 2010  

For the full year of 2010, we expect earnings per share to be in
    the range of $4.65 to $4.85, excluding the potential impact of
    health care reform in the U.S. and restructuring charges
    resulting from previously announced strategic headcount
    reductions. We expect volume-driven revenue growth in the
    high-single digits, driven primarily by Alimta, Cymbalta,
    Humalog, Cialis, Effient and the exenatide franchise. We
    anticipate that gross margin as a percent of revenue will be
    flat to declining. Marketing, selling, and

30   

administrative expenses are projected to grow in the low- to
    mid-single digits while research and development expenses are
    projected to grow in the low-double digits. Other net,
    expense (income) is expected to be a net expense of between
    $150.0 million and $200.0 million. Cash flows are expected
    to be sufficient to fund capital expenditures of approximately
    $1.0 billion, anticipated business development activity,
    and our dividend.

We caution investors that any forward-looking statements or
    projections made by us, including those above, are based on
    management s belief at the time they are made. However,
    they are subject to risks and uncertainties. Actual results
    could differ materially and will depend on, among other things,
    the continuing growth of our currently marketed products;
    developments with competitive products; the timing and scope of
    regulatory approvals and the success of our new product
    launches; asset impairments, restructurings, and acquisitions of
    compounds under development resulting in acquired in-process
    research and development charges; foreign exchange rates and
    global macroeconomic conditions; changes in effective tax rates;
    wholesaler inventory changes; other regulatory developments,
    litigation, patent disputes, and government investigations; and
    the impact of governmental actions regarding pricing,
    importation, and reimbursement for pharmaceuticals, as well as
    proposed health care reform currently being discussed by the
    U.S. Congress. We undertake no duty to update these
    forward-looking statements.

LEGAL
    AND REGULATORY MATTERS  

We are a party to various legal actions and government
    investigations. The most significant of these are described
    below. While it is not possible to determine the outcome of
    these matters, we believe that, except as specifically noted
    below, the resolution of all such matters will not have a
    material adverse effect on our consolidated financial position
    or liquidity, but could possibly be material to our consolidated
    results of operations in any one accounting period.

Patent
    Litigation  

We are engaged in the following patent litigation matters
    brought pursuant to procedures set out in the Hatch-Waxman Act
    (the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of
    1984):

Cymbalta:   Sixteen generic drug manufacturers
    have submitted Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) seeking
    permission to market generic versions of Cymbalta prior to the
    expiration of our relevant U.S. patents (the earliest of
    which expires in 2013). Of these challengers, all allege
    non-infringement of the patent claims directed to the commercial
    formulation, and nine allege invalidity of the patent claims
    directed to the active ingredient duloxetine. Of the nine
    challengers to the compound patent claims, one further alleges
    invalidity of the claims directed to the use of Cymbalta for
    treating fibromyalgia, and one alleges the patent having claims
    directed to the active ingredient is unenforceable. In November
    2008 we filed lawsuits in U.S. District Court for the
    Southern District of Indiana against Actavis Elizabeth LLC;
    Aurobindo Pharma Ltd.; Cobalt Laboratories, Inc.; Impax
    Laboratories, Inc.; Lupin Limited; Sandoz Inc.; and Wockhardt
    Limited, seeking rulings that the patents are valid, infringed,
    and enforceable. We filed similar lawsuits in the same court
    against Sun Pharma Global, Inc. in December 2008 and against
    Anchen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in August 2009. The cases have been
    consolidated and actions against all but Wockhardt Limited have
    been stayed pursuant to stipulations by the defendants to be
    bound by the outcome of the litigation through appeal.

Gemzar:   Mayne Pharma (USA) Inc., now Hospira,
    Inc. (Hospira); Fresenius Kabi Oncology Plc (Fresenius); Sicor
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc., now Teva Parenteral Medicines, Inc.
    (Teva); and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc. (Sun) each
    submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market generic versions
    of Gemzar prior to the expiration of our relevant
    U.S. patents (compound patent expiring in 2010 and
     method-of-use 
    patent expiring in 2013), and alleging that these patents are
    invalid. Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz) and APP Pharmaceuticals, LLC (APP)
    have similarly challenged our
     method-of-use 
    patent. We filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for
    the Southern District of Indiana against Teva (February 2006),
    Hospira (October 2006 and January 2008), Sandoz (October 2009),
    APP (December 2009), and Fresenius (February 2010), seeking
    rulings that our patents are valid and are being infringed.
    Sandoz withdrew its ANDA and the suit against it was dismissed
    in February 2010. The trial against Teva was held in September
    2009 and we are waiting for a ruling. Teva s ANDAs have
    been approved by the FDA; however, Teva must provide
    90 days notice prior to marketing generic Gemzar to allow
    time for us to seek a preliminary injunction. Both suits against
    Hospira have been administratively closed, and the parties have
    agreed to be bound by the results of the Teva suit. In November
    2007, Sun filed a declaratory judgment action in the United
    States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan,
    seeking rulings that our
     method-of-use 
    and compound patents are invalid or unenforceable, or would not
    be infringed by the sale of Sun s generic product. In
    August 2009, the District Court granted a motion by Sun for
    partial summary judgment, invalidating our
     method-of-use 
    patent. We have appealed this decision. This ruling has no
    bearing on the compound patent. The trial originally scheduled
    for December 2009 has been postponed while the court considers
    Sun s second summary judgment motion, related to the
    validity of our compound patent.

31   

Sun and APP have received tentative approval for their products
    from the FDA, but are prohibited from entering the market by
     30-month 
    stays, which expire in June 2010 for Sun and May 2012 for APP.

Alimta:   Teva Parenteral Medicines, Inc.
    (Teva), APP, and Barr Laboratories, Inc. (Barr) each submitted
    ANDAs seeking approval to market generic versions of Alimta
    prior to the expiration of the relevant U.S. patent
    (licensed from the Trustees of Princeton University and expiring
    in 2016), and alleging the patent is invalid. We, along with
    Princeton, filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for
    the District of Delaware against Teva, APP, and Barr seeking
    rulings that the compound patent is valid and infringed. Trial
    is scheduled for November 2010 against Teva and APP.

Evista:   In 2006, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA,
    Inc. (Teva) submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market a
    generic version of Evista prior to the expiration of our
    relevant U.S. patents (expiring in
     2012-2017) 
    and alleging that these patents are invalid, not enforceable, or
    not infringed. In June 2006, we filed a lawsuit against Teva in
    the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
    Indiana, seeking a ruling that these patents are valid,
    enforceable, and being infringed by Teva. The trial against Teva
    was completed in March 2009. In September 2009, the court upheld
    our
     method-of-use 
    patents (the last expires in 2014). Teva has appealed that
    ruling. In addition, the court held that our particle-size
    patent (expiring 2017) is invalid. We have appealed that
    ruling.

Strattera:   Actavis Elizabeth LLC (Actavis),
    Apotex Inc. (Apotex), Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. (Aurobindo), Mylan
    Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Mylan), Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz), Sun
    Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (Sun), and Teva
    Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva) each submitted an ANDA seeking
    permission to market generic versions of Strattera prior to the
    expiration of our relevant U.S. patent (expiring in 2017),
    and alleging that this patent is invalid. In 2007, we brought a
    lawsuit against Actavis, Apotex, Aurobindo, Mylan, Sandoz, Sun,
    and Teva in the United States District Court for the District of
    New Jersey. The court has ruled on all pending summary judgment
    motions, and granted our infringement motion. The remaining
    invalidity defenses will be decided at trial, which could take
    place as early as the third quarter of 2010. Several companies
    have received tentative approval to market generic atomoxetine,
    but are prohibited from entering the market by a
     30-month 
    stay which expires in November 2010.

We believe each of these Hatch-Waxman challenges is without
    merit and expect to prevail in this litigation. However, it is
    not possible to determine the outcome of this litigation, and
    accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we will prevail.
    An unfavorable outcome in any of these cases could have a
    material adverse impact on our future consolidated results of
    operations, liquidity, and financial position.

We have received challenges to Zyprexa patents in a number of
    countries outside the U.S.:

In Canada, several generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have
    challenged the validity of our Zyprexa patent (expiring in
    2011). In April 2007, the Canadian Federal Court ruled against
    the first challenger, Apotex Inc. (Apotex), and that ruling was
    affirmed on appeal in February 2008. In June 2007, the Canadian
    Federal Court held that an invalidity allegation of a second
    challenger, Novopharm Ltd. (Novopharm), was justified and denied
    our request that Novopharm be prohibited from receiving
    marketing approval for generic olanzapine in Canada. Novopharm
    began selling generic olanzapine in Canada in the third quarter
    of 2007. In September 2009, the Canadian Federal Court ruled
    against us in the Novapharm suit, finding our patent invalid. We
    have appealed this decision. If the decision is upheld, we could
    face liability for damages related to delays in the launch of
    generic olanzapine products; however, we have concluded at this
    time that the damages are not probable or estimable.

In Germany, the German Federal Supreme Court upheld the validity
    of our Zyprexa patent (expiring in 2011) in December 2008,
    reversing an earlier decision of the Federal Patent Court.
    Following the decision of the Supreme Court, the generic
    companies who launched generic olanzapine based on the earlier
    decision either agreed to withdraw from the market or were
    subject to injunction. We are pursuing these companies for
    damages arising from infringement.

We have received challenges in a number of other countries,
    including Spain, the United Kingdom (U.K.), and several smaller
    European countries. In Spain, we have been successful at both
    the trial and appellate court levels in defeating the generic
    manufacturers  challenges, but additional actions are now
    pending. In the U.K., the generic pharmaceutical manufacturer
    Dr. Reddy s Laboratories (UK) Limited
    (Dr. Reddy s) has challenged the validity of our
    Zyprexa patent (expiring in 2011). In October 2008, the Patents
    Court in the High Court, London ruled that our patent was valid.
    Dr. Reddy s appealed this decision. The U.K. Court of
    Appeal affirmed the validity of the patent in December 2009.
    Dr. Reddy s did not seek further appeal to the U.K.
    Supreme Court, therefore the U.K. proceedings are concluded.

We are vigorously contesting the various legal challenges to our
    Zyprexa patents on a
     country-by-country 
    basis. We cannot determine the outcome of this litigation. The
    availability of generic olanzapine in additional markets could
    have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
    operations.

Xigris and Evista:   In June 2002, Ariad
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Ariad), the Massachusetts Institute of
    Technology, the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, and
    the President and Fellows of Harvard

32   

College in the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Massachusetts sued us, alleging that sales of two of our
    products, Xigris and Evista, were inducing the infringement of a
    patent related to the discovery of a natural cell signaling
    phenomenon in the human body, and seeking royalties on past and
    future sales of these products. Following jury and bench trials
    on separate issues, the U.S. District Court of
    Massachusetts entered final judgment in September 2007 that
    Ariad s claims were valid, infringed, and enforceable, and
    finding damages in the amount of $65 million plus a
    2.3 percent royalty on net U.S. sales of Xigris and
    Evista since the time of the jury decision. However, the Court
    deferred the requirement to pay any damages until after all
    rights to appeal are exhausted. In April 2009, the Court of
    Appeals for the Federal Circuit overturned the District Court
    judgment, concluding that Ariad s asserted patent claims
    are invalid. In August 2009, the Court of Appeals agreed to
    review this decision en banc, thereby vacating the Court of
    Appeals decision. The en banc hearing occurred in December 2009
    and we are awaiting a decision. Nevertheless, we believe that
    these allegations are without legal merit, that we will
    ultimately prevail on these issues, and therefore that the
    likelihood of any monetary damages is remote.

Zyprexa
    Litigation  

We have been named as a defendant in a large number of Zyprexa
    product liability lawsuits in the U.S. and have been
    notified of many other claims of individuals who have not filed
    suit. The lawsuits and unfiled claims (together the
     claims ) allege a variety of injuries from the use of
    Zyprexa, with the majority alleging that the product caused or
    contributed to diabetes or high blood-glucose levels. The claims
    seek substantial compensatory and punitive damages and typically
    accuse us of inadequately testing for and warning about side
    effects of Zyprexa. Many of the claims also allege that we
    improperly promoted the drug. Almost all of the federal lawsuits
    are part of a Multi-District Litigation (MDL) proceeding
    before The Honorable Jack Weinstein in the Federal District
    Court for the Eastern District of New York (MDL No. 1596).

Since June 2005, we have entered into agreements with various
    claimants  attorneys involved in U.S. Zyprexa product
    liability litigation to settle a substantial majority of the
    claims. The agreements cover a total of approximately 32,670
    claimants, including a large number of previously filed lawsuits
    and other asserted claims. The two primary settlements were as
    follows:

We are prepared to continue our vigorous defense of Zyprexa in
    all remaining claims. The U.S. Zyprexa product liability
    claims not subject to these agreements include approximately 170
    lawsuits in the U.S. covering approximately 260 plaintiffs,
    of which about 140 cases covering about 150 plaintiffs are part
    of the MDL. The MDL cases have been scheduled for trial in
    groups, and no specific trial dates for trial groups have been
    assigned. We also have trials scheduled in Texas state court in
    May and August 2010 and in Ohio in August 2010.

In January 2009, we reached resolution with the Office of the
    U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
    (EDPA), and the State Medicaid Fraud Control Units of
    36 states and the District of Columbia, of an investigation
    related to our U.S. marketing and promotional practices
    with respect to Zyprexa. As part of the resolution, we pled
    guilty to one misdemeanor violation of the Food, Drug, and
    Cosmetic Act for the off-label promotion of Zyprexa in elderly
    populations as treatment for dementia, including
    Alzheimer s dementia, between September 1999 and March
    2001. We recorded a charge of $1.42 billion for this matter
    in the third quarter of 2008. In 2009, we paid substantially all
    of this amount, as required by the settlement agreements. As
    part of the settlement, we have entered into a corporate
    integrity agreement with the Office of Inspector General (OIG)
    of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS),
    which requires us to maintain our compliance program and to
    undertake a set of defined corporate integrity obligations for
    five years. The agreement also provides for an independent
    third-party review organization to assess and report on the
    company s systems, processes, policies, procedures, and
    practices.

In October 2008, we reached a settlement with 32 states and
    the District of Columbia related to a multistate investigation
    brought under various state consumer protection laws. While
    there is no finding that we have violated any provision of the
    state laws under which the investigations were conducted, we
    accrued and paid $62.0 million and agreed to undertake
    certain commitments regarding Zyprexa for a period of six years,
    through consent decrees filed with the settling states.

We have been served with lawsuits filed by the states of Alaska,
    Arkansas, Connecticut, Idaho, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi,
    Montana, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Utah, and
    West Virginia alleging that Zyprexa caused or contributed to
    diabetes or high blood-glucose levels, and that we improperly
    promoted the drug. These suits seek to recover the costs paid
    for Zyprexa through Medicaid and other drug-benefit programs, as
    well as the costs alleged to have been incurred and that will be
    incurred by the states to treat Zyprexa-related illnesses. The
    Connecticut, Idaho, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Montana,
    New Mexico, and West Virginia cases are part of the MDL
    proceedings in the EDNY.

33   

The Alaska case was settled in March 2008 for a payment of
    $15.0 million, plus terms designed to ensure, subject to
    certain limitations and conditions, that Alaska is treated as
    favorably as certain other states that may settle with us in the
    future over similar claims. We are in advanced discussions with
    the attorneys general for several of these states, seeking to
    resolve their Zyprexa-related claims, and we have agreed to
    settlements with the states of Arkansas, Connecticut, Idaho,
    Mississippi, New Mexico, South Carolina, Utah, and West
    Virginia. In the second and third quarters of 2009, we incurred
    pretax charges of $105.0 million and $125.0 million,
    respectively, reflecting the currently probable and estimable
    exposures in connection with these claims. The Pennsylvania case
    is set for trial in April 2010 in state court.

In 2005, two lawsuits were filed in the EDNY purporting to be
    nationwide class actions on behalf of all consumers and
    third-party payors, excluding governmental entities, which have
    made or will make payments for their members or insured patients
    being prescribed Zyprexa. These actions have now been
    consolidated into a single lawsuit, which is brought under
    certain state consumer protection statutes, the federal civil
    RICO statute, and common law theories, seeking a refund of the
    cost of Zyprexa, treble damages, punitive damages, and
    attorneys  fees. Two additional lawsuits were filed in the
    EDNY in 2006 on similar grounds. In September 2008, Judge
    Weinstein certified a class consisting of third-party payors,
    excluding governmental entities and individual consumers. We
    appealed the certification order, and Judge Weinstein s
    order denying our motion for summary judgment, in September
    2008. While the Second Circuit Court of Appeals heard oral
    arguments on the appeal in December 2009, no opinions have been
    rendered. In 2007, The Pennsylvania Employees Trust Fund
    brought claims in state court in Pennsylvania as insurer of
    Pennsylvania state employees, who were prescribed Zyprexa on
    similar grounds as described in the New York cases. As with the
    product liability suits, these lawsuits allege that we
    inadequately tested for and warned about side effects of Zyprexa
    and improperly promoted the drug. In December 2009, the court
    granted our summary judgment motion, dismissing the case.
    Plaintiffs have appealed this decision.

In early 2005, we were served with four lawsuits seeking class
    action status in Canada on behalf of patients who took Zyprexa.
    One of these four lawsuits has been certified for residents of
    Quebec, and a second has been certified in Ontario and includes
    all Canadian residents except for residents of Quebec and
    British Columbia. The allegations in the Canadian actions are
    similar to those in the product liability litigation pending in
    the U.S. We are in advanced discussions to resolve all
    Zyprexa class-action litigation in Canada.

We cannot determine with certainty the additional number of
    lawsuits and claims that may be asserted. The ultimate
    resolution of Zyprexa product liability and related litigation
    could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results
    of operations, liquidity, and financial position.

Other
    Product Liability Litigation  

We have been named as a defendant in numerous other product
    liability lawsuits involving primarily diethylstilbestrol (DES),
    thimerosal, and Byetta. The majority of these claims are covered
    by insurance, subject to deductibles and coverage limits.

Product
    Liability Insurance  

Because of the nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible
    that we could become subject to large numbers of product
    liability and related claims for other products in the future.
    In the past several years, we have been unable to attain product
    liability insurance due to a very restrictive insurance market.
    Therefore, for substantially all of our currently marketed
    products, we have been and expect that we will continue to be
    completely self-insured for future product liability losses. In
    addition, there is no assurance that we will be able to fully
    collect from our insurance carriers in the future.

PRIVATE
    SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF 1995  
    A CAUTION CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  

Under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995, we caution investors that any
    forward-looking statements or projections made by us, including
    those made in this document, are based on management s
    expectations at the time they are made, but they are subject to
    risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ
    materially from those projected. Economic, competitive,
    governmental, technological, legal, and other factors that may
    affect our operations and prospects are discussed earlier in
    this section and in Item 1A,  Risk Factors.  We
    undertake no duty to update forward-looking statements.

Item 7A.     

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

You can find quantitative and qualitative disclosures about
    market risk ( e.g.,  interest rate risk) in Item 7 at
     Management s Discussion and Analysis Financial
    Condition.  That information is incorporated in this report
    by reference.

34   

Item 8.    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

Consolidated
    Statements of Operations  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

35   

Consolidated
    Balance Sheets   

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

36   

Consolidated
    Statements of Cash Flows  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

37   

Consolidated
    Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

38   

Segment
    Information  

We operate in one significant business segment human
    pharmaceutical products. Operations of the animal health
    business segment are not material and share many of the same
    economic and operating characteristics as human pharmaceutical
    products. Therefore, they are included with pharmaceutical
    products for purposes of segment reporting.

1  

Net sales are attributed to the countries based on the location
    of the customer.

Our neuroscience group of products includes Zyprexa, Cymbalta,
    Strattera, and Prozac. Endocrinology products consist primarily
    of Humalog, Humulin, Byetta, Actos, Evista, Forteo, and
    Humatrope. Oncology products consist primarily of Alimta and
    Gemzar. Cardiovascular products consist primarily of Cialis,
    ReoPro, Xigris, and Effient. Animal health products include
    Posilac, Tylan, Rumensin, Coban, and other products for
    livestock and poultry, and Comfortis and other products for
    companion animals. The other pharmaceuticals category includes
    anti-infectives, primarily Vancocin and Ceclor, and other
    miscellaneous pharmaceutical products and services.
    Collaboration and other revenue includes our share of the
    U.S. gross margin on Byetta and the global Erbitux royalty.
    See Note 4 for additional information.

Most of our pharmaceutical products are distributed through
    wholesalers that serve pharmacies, physicians and other health
    care professionals, and hospitals. In 2009, our three largest
    wholesalers each accounted for between 12 percent and
    17 percent of consolidated total revenue. Further, they
    each accounted for between 9 percent and 16 percent of
    accounts receivable as of December 31, 2009. Animal health
    products are sold primarily to wholesale distributors.

Our business segments are distinguished by the ultimate end user
    of the product: humans or animals. Performance is evaluated
    based on profit or loss from operations before income taxes. The
    accounting policies of the individual segments are substantially
    the same as those described in the summary of significant
    accounting policies in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
    statements. Income before income taxes for the animal health
    business was approximately $217 million, $192 million,
    and $173 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.

The assets of the animal health business are intermixed with
    those of the pharmaceutical products business. Long-lived assets
    disclosed above consist of property and equipment and certain
    sundry assets.

We are exposed to the risk of changes in social, political, and
    economic conditions inherent in foreign operations, and our
    results of operations and the value of our foreign assets are
    affected by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.

39   

Selected
    Quarterly Data (unaudited)  

Our common stock is listed on the New York, London, and Swiss
    stock exchanges.

1  

We incurred tax expense of $764.3 million in 2008, despite
    having a loss before income taxes of $1.31 billion. Our net
    loss was driven by the $4.69 billion acquired in-process
    research and development (IPR D) charge for ImClone in the
    fourth quarter and the $1.48 billion Zyprexa investigation
    settlements recorded in the third quarter. The IPR D charge
    was not tax deductible, and only a portion of the Zyprexa
    investigation settlements was deductible. In addition, we
    recorded tax expense associated with the ImClone acquisition in
    the fourth quarter in 2008, as well as a discrete income tax
    benefit of $210.3 million in the first quarter of 2008 for
    the resolution of a substantial portion of the
     2001-2004 
    Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit.

40   

Selected
    Financial Data (unaudited)   

NM Not Meaningful

1 

The increase reflects the in-process research and development
    expense of $4.69 billion associated with the ImClone
    acquisition and $1.48 billion associated with the Zyprexa
    investigation settlements.

2 

We incurred tax expense of $764.3 million in 2008, despite
    having a loss before income taxes of $1.31 billion. Our net
    loss was driven by the $4.69 billion acquired IPR D
    charge for ImClone and the $1.48 billion Zyprexa
    investigation settlements. The IPR D charge was not tax
    deductible, and only a portion of the Zyprexa investigation
    settlements was deductible. In addition, we recorded tax expense
    associated with the ImClone acquisition, as well as a discrete
    income tax benefit of $210.3 million for the resolution of
    a substantial portion of the
     2001-2004 
    IRS audit.

41   

PERFORMANCE
    GRAPH  

This graph compares the return on Lilly stock with that of the
    Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index and our peer
    group for the years 2005 through 2009. The graph assumes that,
    on December 31, 2004, a person invested $100 each in Lilly
    stock, the S P 500 Stock Index, and the peer group s
    common stock. The graph measures total shareholder return, which
    takes into account both stock price and dividends. It assumes
    that dividends paid by a company are reinvested in that
    company s stock.

Value
    of $100 Invested on Last Business Day of 2004 
    Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return Among Lilly,
    S P 500 Stock Index, Peer
    Group 1 ,

    and Peer Group
    (Previous) 2   

1 

We constructed the peer group as the industry index for this
    graph. It comprises the ten companies in the pharmaceutical
    industry that we used to benchmark 2009 compensation of
    executive officers: Abbott Laboratories; Amgen Inc.; AstraZeneca
    PLC; Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; GlaxoSmithKline plc;
    Johnson   Johnson; Merck   Co., Inc.;
    Novartis AG.; Pfizer Inc.; and Sanofi-Aventis.

2 

Due to changes in the pharmaceutical industry, the peer group
    used to benchmark 2008 compensation of executive officers was
    revised, with the previous peer group consisting of the
    following companies: Abbott Laboratories; Amgen Inc.;
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company; GlaxoSmithKline plc;
    Johnson   Johnson; Merck   Co., Inc.; Pfizer
    Inc.; Schering-Plough Corporation; and Wyeth. The Peer Group
    (Previous) excludes Schering-Plough Corporation and Wyeth as
    both companies were acquired during 2009.

42   

Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements  
       ELI
    LILLY AND COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES  
    (Dollars in millions, except per-share data)

Note 1:    

Summary
    of Significant Accounting Policies  

Basis of presentation:   The accompanying
    consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
    accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States (GAAP). The accounts of all
     wholly-owned 
    and majority-owned subsidiaries are included in the consolidated
    financial statements. Where our ownership of consolidated
    subsidiaries is less than 100 percent, the non-controlling
    shareholders  interests are reflected in shareholders 
    equity. All intercompany balances and transactions have been
    eliminated.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP
    requires management to make estimates and assumptions that
    affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues,
    expenses, and related disclosures at the date of the financial
    statements and during the reporting period. Actual results could
    differ from those estimates. We issued our financial statements
    by filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    February 22, 2010. We have evaluated subsequent events up
    to the time of the filing.

All per-share amounts, unless otherwise noted in the footnotes,
    are presented on a diluted basis, that is, based on the
    weighted-average number of outstanding common shares plus the
    effect of dilutive stock options and other incremental shares.

Cash equivalents:   We consider all highly
    liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less from
    the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. The cost of these
    investments approximates fair value.

Inventories:   We state all inventories at the
    lower of cost or market. We use the
     last-in, 
    first-out (LIFO) method for the majority of our inventories
    located in the continental United States, or approximately
    40 percent of our total inventories. Other inventories are
    valued by the
     first-in, 
    first-out (FIFO) method. FIFO cost approximates current
    replacement cost. Inventories at December 31 consisted of the
    following:

Investments:   Substantially all of our
    investments in debt and marketable equity securities are
    classified as
     available-for-sale. 
    Investment securities with maturity dates of less than one year
    from the date of the balance sheet are classified as short-term.
     Available-for-sale 
    securities are carried at fair value with the unrealized gains
    and losses, net of tax, reported in other comprehensive income
    (loss). The credit portion of unrealized losses on our debt
    securities considered to be
     other-than-temporary 
    are recognized in earnings. The remaining portion of the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment on our debt securities is then recorded in other
    comprehensive income (loss). The entire amount of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment on our equity securities is recognized in earnings.
    We do not evaluate cost-method investments for impairment unless
    there is an indicator of impairment. We review these investments
    for indicators of impairment on a regular basis. Realized gains
    and losses on sales of
     available-for-sale 
    securities are computed based upon specific identification of
    the initial cost adjusted for any
     other-than-temporary 
    declines in fair value that were recorded in earnings.
    Investments in companies over which we have significant
    influence but not a controlling interest are accounted for using
    the equity method with our share of earnings or losses reported
    in other   net, expense (income). We own no
    investments that are considered to be trading securities.

Risk-management instruments:   Our derivative
    activities are initiated within the guidelines of documented
    corporate risk-management policies and do not create additional
    risk because gains and losses on derivative contracts offset
    losses and gains on the assets, liabilities, and transactions
    being hedged. As derivative contracts are initiated, we
    designate the instruments individually as either a fair value
    hedge or a cash flow hedge. Management reviews the correlation
    and effectiveness of our derivatives on a quarterly basis.

For derivative contracts that are designated and qualify as fair
    value hedges, the derivative instrument is marked to market with
    gains and losses recognized currently in income to offset the
    respective losses and gains recognized on the underlying
    exposure. For derivative contracts that are designated and
    qualify as cash flow hedges, the effective portion of gains and
    losses on these contracts is reported as a component of other
    comprehensive income (loss) and reclassified into earnings in
    the same period the hedged

43   

transaction affects earnings. Hedge ineffectiveness is
    immediately recognized in earnings. Derivative contracts that
    are not designated as hedging instruments are recorded at fair
    value with the gain or loss recognized in current earnings
    during the period of change.

We may enter into foreign currency forward and option contracts
    to reduce the effect of fluctuating currency exchange rates
    (principally the euro, the British pound, and the Japanese yen).
    Foreign currency derivatives used for hedging are put in place
    using the same or like currencies and duration as the underlying
    exposures. Forward contracts are principally used to manage
    exposures arising from subsidiary trade and loan payables and
    receivables denominated in foreign currencies. These contracts
    are recorded at fair value with the gain or loss recognized in
    other   net, expense (income). The purchased option
    contracts are used to hedge anticipated foreign currency
    transactions, primarily intercompany inventory activities
    expected to occur within the next year. These contracts are
    designated as cash flow hedges of those future transactions and
    the impact on earnings is included in cost of sales. We may
    enter into foreign currency forward contracts and currency swaps
    as fair value hedges of firm commitments. Forward and option
    contracts generally have maturities not exceeding 12 months.

In the normal course of business, our operations are exposed to
    fluctuations in interest rates. These fluctuations can vary the
    costs of financing, investing, and operating. We address a
    portion of these risks through a controlled program of risk
    management that includes the use of derivative financial
    instruments. The objective of controlling these risks is to
    limit the impact of fluctuations in interest rates on earnings.
    Our primary interest rate risk exposure results from changes in
    short-term U.S. dollar interest rates. In an effort to
    manage interest rate exposures, we strive to achieve an
    acceptable balance between fixed and floating rate debt and
    investment positions and may enter into interest rate swaps or
    collars to help maintain that balance. Interest rate swaps or
    collars that convert our fixed-rate debt or investments to a
    floating rate are designated as fair value hedges of the
    underlying instruments. Interest rate swaps or collars that
    convert floating rate debt or investments to a fixed rate are
    designated as cash flow hedges. Interest expense on the debt is
    adjusted to include the payments made or received under the swap
    agreements.

Goodwill and other intangibles:   Goodwill is
    not amortized. All other intangibles arising from acquisitions
    and research alliances have finite lives and are amortized over
    their estimated useful lives, ranging from 5 to
    20 years, using the straight-line method. The remaining
    weighted-average amortization period for developed product
    technology is approximately 11 years. Amortization expense
    for 2009, 2008, and 2007 was $277.0 million,
    $193.4 million, and $172.8 million before tax,
    respectively. The estimated amortization expense for each of the
    five succeeding years approximates $280.0 million before
    tax, per year. Substantially all of the amortization expense is
    included in cost of sales. See Note 3 for further
    discussion of goodwill and other intangibles acquired in 2009,
    2008, and 2007.

Goodwill and other intangible assets at December 31 were as
    follows:

Goodwill and net other intangibles are reviewed to assess
    recoverability at least annually and when certain impairment
    indicators are present. No significant impairments occurred with
    respect to the carrying value of our goodwill or other
    intangible assets in 2009, 2008, or 2007.

Property and equipment:   Property and equipment
    is stated on the basis of cost. Provisions for depreciation of
    buildings and equipment are computed generally by the
    straight-line method at rates based on their estimated useful
    lives (12 to 50 years for buildings and 3 to 18 years
    for equipment). We review the carrying value of long-lived
    assets for potential impairment on a periodic basis and whenever
    events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value
    of an asset may not be recoverable. Impairment is determined by
    comparing projected undiscounted cash flows to be generated by
    the asset to its carrying value. If an impairment is identified,
    a loss is recorded equal to the excess of the asset s net
    book value over its fair value, and the cost basis is adjusted.

44   

At December 31, property and equipment consisted of the
    following:

Depreciation expense for 2009, 2008, and 2007 was
    $813.5 million, $731.7 million, and
    $682.3 million, respectively. Interest costs of
    $30.2 million, $48.2 million, and $95.3 million
    were capitalized as part of property and equipment in 2009,
    2008, and 2007, respectively. Total rental expense for all
    leases, including contingent rentals (not material), amounted to
    $337.8 million, $327.4 million, and
    $294.2 million for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.
    Assets under capital leases included in property and equipment
    in the consolidated balance sheets, capital lease obligations
    entered into, and future minimum rental commitments are not
    material.

Litigation and environmental
    liabilities:   Litigation accruals and
    environmental liabilities and the related estimated insurance
    recoverables are reflected on a gross basis as liabilities and
    assets, respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. With
    respect to the product liability claims currently asserted
    against us, we have accrued for our estimated exposures to the
    extent they are both probable and estimable based on the
    information available to us. We accrue for certain product
    liability claims incurred but not filed to the extent we can
    formulate a reasonable estimate of their costs. We estimate
    these expenses based primarily on historical claims experience
    and data regarding product usage. Legal defense costs expected
    to be incurred in connection with significant product liability
    loss contingencies are accrued when probable and reasonably
    estimable. A portion of the costs associated with defending and
    disposing of these suits is covered by insurance. We record
    receivables for insurance-related recoveries when it is probable
    they will be realized. These receivables are classified as a
    reduction of the litigation charges on the statement of
    operations. We estimate insurance recoverables based on existing
    deductibles, coverage limits, our assessment of any defenses to
    coverage that might be raised by the carriers, and the existing
    and projected future level of insolvencies among the insurance
    carriers. However, for substantially all of our currently
    marketed products, we are completely self-insured for future
    product liability losses.

Revenue recognition:   We recognize revenue from
    sales of products at the time title of goods passes to the buyer
    and the buyer assumes the risks and rewards of ownership. For
    more than 85 percent of our sales, this is at the time
    products are shipped to the customer, typically a wholesale
    distributor or a major retail chain. The remaining sales are
    recorded at the point of delivery. Provisions for returns,
    discounts, and rebates are established in the same period the
    related sales are recorded.

We also generate income as a result of collaboration agreements.
    Revenue from co-promotion services is based upon net sales
    reported by our co-promotion partners and, if applicable, the
    number of sales calls we perform. Initial fees we receive from
    the partnering of our compounds under development are amortized
    through the expected product approval date. Initial fees
    received from out-licensing agreements that include both the
    sale of marketing rights to our commercialized products and a
    related commitment to supply the products are generally
    recognized in net product sales over the term of the supply
    agreement. We immediately recognize the full amount of
    developmental milestone payments due to us upon the achievement
    of the milestone event if the event is substantive, objectively
    determinable, and represents an important point in the
    development life cycle of the pharmaceutical product. Milestone
    payments earned by us are generally recorded in
    other   net, expense (income). If the payment to us is
    a commercialization payment that is part of a multiple-element
    collaborative commercialization arrangement and is a result of
    the initiation of the commercialization period (e.g., payments
    triggered by regulatory approval for marketing or launch of the
    product), we amortize the payment to income as we perform under
    the terms of the arrangement.

Royalty revenue from licensees, which are based on third-party
    sales of licensed products and technology, are recorded as
    earned in accordance with the contract terms when third-party
    sales can be reasonably measured and collection of the funds is
    reasonably assured. This royalty revenue is included in
    collaboration and other revenue.

45   

Following is the composition of revenue:

Acquired research and development:   We
    recognize as incurred the cost of directly acquiring assets to
    be used in the research and development process that have not
    yet received regulatory approval for marketing and for which no
    alternative future use has been identified. Beginning in 2009,
    in process research and development acquired in a business
    combination is capitalized at the fair value as of the time of
    the acquisition. For in-process research and development assets
    acquired in both direct acquisitions and business combinations,
    once the product has obtained regulatory approval, we capitalize
    any milestones paid and amortize them over the period benefited.
    Milestones paid prior to regulatory approval of the product are
    generally expensed when the event requiring payment of the
    milestone occurs.

Other     net, expense
    (income):   Other net, expense (income)
    consisted of the following:

Income taxes:   Deferred taxes are recognized
    for the future tax effects of temporary differences between
    financial and income tax reporting based on enacted tax laws and
    rates. Federal income taxes are provided on the portion of the
    income of foreign subsidiaries that is expected to be remitted
    to the United States and be taxable.

We recognize the tax benefit from an uncertain tax position only
    if it is more likely than not that the tax position will be
    sustained on examination by the taxing authorities, based on the
    technical merits of the position. The tax benefits recognized in
    the financial statements from such a position are measured based
    on the largest benefit that has a greater than 50 percent
    likelihood of being realized upon ultimate resolution.

Earnings per share:   We calculate basic
    earnings per share based on the weighted-average number of
    outstanding common shares and incremental shares. We calculate
    diluted earnings per share based on the weighted-average number
    of outstanding common shares plus the effect of dilutive stock
    options and other incremental shares. See Note 11 for
    further discussion.

Stock-based compensation:   We recognize the
    fair value of stock-based compensation as expense over the
    requisite service period of the individual grantees, which
    generally equals the vesting period. Under our policy all
    stock-based awards are approved prior to the date of grant. The
    Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approves the
    value of the award and date of grant. Stock-based compensation
    that is awarded as part of our annual equity grant is made on a
    specific grant date scheduled in advance.

Reclassifications:   Certain reclassifications
    have been made to the December 31, 2008 and 2007
    consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes to
    conform with the December 31, 2009 presentation.

Note 2:  Implementation
    of New Financial Accounting Pronouncements  

The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement on
    Business Combinations was effective for us for business
    combinations with the acquisition date on or after
    January 1, 2009. This Statement, with its amendment,
    changes the way in which the acquisition method is to be applied
    in a business combination. The primary revisions require an
    acquirer in a business combination to measure assets acquired,
    liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the
    acquiree at the acquisition date, at their fair values as of
    that date, with limited exceptions specified in the Statement.
    This Statement also requires the acquirer in a business
    combination achieved in stages to recognize the identifiable
    assets and liabilities, as well as the noncontrolling interest
    in the acquiree, at the full amounts of their fair values (or
    other amounts determined in accordance with the Statement).
    Assets acquired and liabilities assumed arising from
    contingencies are to be measured at fair value if it can be
    determined during the measurement period. If fair value cannot
    be determined, the asset or liability should be recognized at
    the acquisition date if it is probable that an asset existed or
    a liability had been incurred and the amount can be reasonably
    estimated. This Statement significantly amends other
    authoritative guidance on Business

46   

Combinations as well, and now requires the capitalization of
    research and development assets acquired in a business
    combination at their acquisition-date fair values, separately
    from goodwill. The accounting for income taxes was also amended
    by this Statement to require the acquirer to recognize changes
    in the amount of its deferred tax benefits that are recognizable
    because of a business combination either in income from
    continuing operations in the period of the combination or
    directly in contributed capital, depending on the circumstances.

We adopted the provisions of the FASB Statement on
    Consolidations relating to the accounting for noncontrolling
    interests on January 1, 2009. This Statement amends
    previous authoritative guidance, by requiring companies to
    report a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary as equity in
    its consolidated financial statements. Disclosure of the amounts
    of consolidated net income attributable to the parent and the
    noncontrolling interest will be required. This Statement also
    clarifies that transactions that result in a change in a
    parent s ownership interest in a subsidiary that do not
    result in deconsolidation will be treated as equity
    transactions, while a gain or loss will be recognized by the
    parent when a subsidiary is deconsolidated. We now classify our
    noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary as part of
    shareholders  equity in our consolidated statements of
    financial position at December 31, 2009 and reclassified
    the December 31, 2008 balances accordingly. The net income
    attributed to the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary for
    2009 and 2008 is not material and is included in
     other-net, 
    expense (income).

We adopted the provisions of the FASB Statement on disclosures
    relating to Derivatives and Hedging on January 1, 2009.
    This Statement requires entities to provide enhanced disclosures
    about how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, how
    derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted
    for, and how derivative instruments and related hedged items
    affect an entity s financial position, results of
    operations, and cash flows. These disclosures are included in
    Note 6.

We adopted the provisions of the Emerging Issues Task Force
    (EITF) guidance related to Collaborative Arrangements on
    January 1, 2009. This guidance defines collaborative
    arrangements and establishes reporting requirements for
    transactions between participants in a collaborative arrangement
    and between participants in the arrangement and third parties.
    This guidance has been applied retrospectively to all prior
    periods presented for significant collaborative arrangements
    existing as of the effective date by classifying revenues into
    two separate components: net product sales and collaboration and
    other revenue. See Note 4 for additional information.

We adopted the provisions of the FASB Staff Position (FSP)
    relating to Investments on January 1, 2009. This FSP amends
    the
     other-than-temporary 
    recognition guidance for debt securities and requires additional
    interim and annual disclosures of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments on debt and equity securities. Pursuant to the new
    guidance, an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment has occurred if a company does not expect to recover
    the entire amortized cost basis of the security. In this
    situation, if the company does not intend to sell the impaired
    security, and it is not more likely than not it will be required
    to sell the security before the recovery of its amortized cost
    basis, the amount of the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment recognized in earnings is limited to the portion
    attributed to the credit loss. The remaining portion of the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment is then recorded in other comprehensive income
    (loss). This FSP has been applied to existing and new securities
    as of January 1, 2009. The applicable disclosures are
    included in Note 6. The implementation of this FSP was not
    material to our consolidated financial position or results of
    operations and there was no cumulative effect adjustment.

We adopted the provisions of a FSP relating to Fair Value
    Measurements and Disclosures, as of March 31, 2009. This
    FSP provides additional guidance on estimating fair value when
    the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability have
    significantly decreased in relation to normal market activity.
    The FSP also provides additional guidance on circumstances that
    may indicate that a transaction is not orderly and requires
    additional disclosures. The implementation of this FSP had no
    effect on our consolidated financial position or results of
    operations.

We adopted the provisions of a FSP on Financial Instruments, as
    of March 31, 2009. This FSP required disclosures about fair
    value of all financial instruments for interim reporting
    periods. The implementation of this FSP had no effect on our
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.

We adopted the provisions of a FSP on
    Compensation Retirement Benefits, as of December 31,
    2009. This FSP required disclosures about plan assets of a
    defined benefit pension or other postretirement plan. The
    applicable disclosures are included in Note 13. The
    implementation of this FSP had no effect on our consolidated
    financial position or results of operations.

During 2009, we adopted the provisions of the FASB Statement on
    Subsequent Events. This Statement provides authoritative
    accounting literature and disclosure requirements for material
    events occurring subsequent to the balance sheet date and prior
    to the issuance of the financial statements. The implementation
    of this Statement had no effect on our consolidated financial
    position or results of operations.

47   

In 2009, the FASB issued a Statement on Transfers and Servicing,
    an amendment of previous authoritative guidance. The most
    significant amendments resulting from this Statement consist of
    the removal of the concept of a qualifying special-purpose
    entity (SPE) from previous authoritative guidance, and the
    elimination of the exception for qualifying SPEs from the
    Consolidation guidance regarding variable interest entities.
    This Statement is effective for us January 1, 2010 and is
    not expected to be material to our consolidated financial
    position or results of operations.

In 2009, the FASB issued a Statement which amends the previous
    Consolidations guidance regarding variable interest entities and
    addresses the effects of eliminating the qualifying SPE concept
    from the guidance on Transfers and Servicing. This Statement
    responds to concerns about the application of certain key
    provisions of the previous guidance on Consolidations regarding
    variable interest entities, including concerns over the
    transparency of enterprises  involvement with variable
    interest entities. This Statement is effective for us
    January 1, 2010 and is not expected to be material to our
    consolidated financial position or results of operations.

In 2009, the FASB ratified EITF guidance related to Revenue
    Recognition that amends the previous guidance on arrangements
    with multiple deliverables. This guidance provides principles
    and application guidance on whether multiple deliverables exist,
    how the arrangements should be separated, and how the
    consideration should be allocated. It also clarifies the method
    to allocate revenue in an arrangement using the estimated
    selling price. This guidance is effective for us January 1,
    2011 and is not expected to be material to our consolidated
    financial position or results of operations.

Note 3:  Acquisitions  

During 2008 and 2007 we acquired several businesses. These
    acquisitions were accounted for as business combinations under
    the purchase method of accounting. Under the purchase method of
    accounting, the assets acquired and liabilities assumed were
    recorded at their respective fair values as of the acquisition
    date in our consolidated financial statements. The determination
    of estimated fair value required management to make significant
    estimates and assumptions. The excess of the purchase price over
    the fair value of the acquired net assets, where applicable, has
    been recorded as goodwill. The results of operations of these
    acquisitions are included in our consolidated financial
    statements from the date of acquisition.

Most of these acquisitions included IPR D, which
    represented compounds, new indications, or line extensions under
    development that had not yet achieved regulatory approval for
    marketing. There are several methods that can be used to
    determine the estimated fair value of the IPR D acquired in
    a business combination. We utilized the  income
    method , which applies a probability weighting to the
    estimated future net cash flows that are derived from projected
    sales revenues and estimated costs. These projections are based
    on factors such as relevant market size, patent protection,
    historical pricing of similar products, and expected industry
    trends. The estimated future net cash flows are then discounted
    to the present value using an appropriate discount rate. This
    analysis is performed for each project independently. Pursuant
    to the existing rules, these acquired IPR D intangible
    assets totaling $4.71 billion and $340.5 million in
    2008 and 2007, respectively, were expensed immediately
    subsequent to the acquisition because the products had no
    alternative future use. The ongoing expenses with respect to
    each of these products in development are not material to our
    total research and development expense currently and are not
    expected to be material to our total research and development
    expense on an annual basis in the future.

In addition to the acquisitions of businesses, we also acquired
    several products in development. The acquired IPR D related
    to these products of $90.0 million, $122.0 million,
    and $405.1 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively,
    was also written off by a charge to income immediately upon
    acquisition because the products had no alternative future use.

ImClone
    Acquisition  

On November 24, 2008, we acquired all of the outstanding
    shares of ImClone Systems Inc. (ImClone), a biopharmaceutical
    company focused on advancing oncology care, for a total purchase
    price of approximately $6.5 billion, which was financed
    through borrowings. This strategic combination offered both
    targeted therapies and oncolytic agents along with a pipeline
    spanning all phases of clinical development. The combination
    also expanded our biotechnology capabilities.

The acquisition was accounted for as a business combination
    under the purchase method of accounting, resulting in goodwill
    of $425.9 million. No portion of this goodwill was or is
    expected to be deductible for tax purposes.

48   

Allocation of
    Purchase Price   

The purchase price was allocated based on the fair value of
    assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the date of
    acquisition.

1  

This intangible asset is being amortized on a straight-line
    basis through 2023 in the U.S. and 2018 in the rest of the world.

All of the estimated fair value of the acquired IPR D was
    attributable to oncology-related products in development,
    including $1.33 billion to line extensions for Erbitux. A
    significant portion (81 percent) of the remaining value of
    acquired IPR D was attributable to ramucirumab,
    necitumumab, and cixutumumab. At the time of the acquisition,
    ramucirumab was in Phase III clinical testing, while
    necitumumab and cixutumumab were in Phase II clinical
    testing. The discount rate we used in valuing the acquired
    IPR D projects was 13.5 percent, and the charge for
    acquired IPR D of $4.69 billion recorded in the fourth
    quarter of 2008 was not deductible for tax purposes.

Pro Forma
    Financial Information (unaudited)   

The following pro forma financial information presents the
    combined results of our operations with ImClone as if the
    acquisition and the financing for the acquisition had occurred
    as of the beginning of each of the years presented. We have
    adjusted the historical consolidated financial information to
    give effect to pro forma events that are directly attributable
    to the acquisition. The pro forma financial information is not
    necessarily indicative of what our consolidated results of
    operations actually would have been had we completed the
    acquisition at the beginning of each year. In addition, the pro
    forma financial information does not attempt to project the
    future results of operations of our combined company.

1  

The pro forma financial information above excludes the
    non-recurring charge incurred for acquired IPR D of
    $4.69 billion and other merger-related costs.

The pro forma financial information above reflects the following:

a reduction of the amortization of ImClone s deferred
    income of $86.2 million (2008) and $98.4 million
    (2007);

the increase of amortization expense of $78.8 million in
    2008 and 2007 related to the estimated fair value of
    identifiable intangible assets from the purchase price
    allocation which are being amortized over their estimated useful
    lives through 2023 in the U.S. and through 2018 in the rest
    of the world. The change in depreciation expense related to the
    change in the estimated fair value of property and equipment
    from the book value at the time of the acquisition was not
    material;

the adjustment to increase interest expense related to the debt
    incurred to finance the acquisition and the adjustment to
    decrease interest income related to the lost interest income on
    the cash used to purchase ImClone by a total of
    $301.0 million in 2008 and 2007;

49   

the reduction of ImClone s income tax expense to provide
    for income taxes at the statutory tax rate and the adjustment to
    income taxes for pro forma adjustments at the statutory tax
    rate, totaling $139.3 million (2008) and
    $189.5 million (2007). This excludes the acquired
    IPR D charge of $4.69 billion, which was not tax
    deductible;

certain reclassifications to conform to accounting policies and
    classifications that are consistent with our practices (e.g.,
    ImClone s license fees and milestones were classified as
    other net, expense (income), rather than net sales).

Posilac  

On October 1, 2008, we acquired the worldwide rights to the
    dairy cow supplement Posilac, as well as the product s
    supporting operations, from Monsanto Company (Monsanto). The
    acquisition of Posilac provides us with a product that
    complements those of our animal health business. Under the terms
    of the agreement, we acquired the rights to the Posilac brand,
    as well as the product s U.S. sales force and
    manufacturing facility, for an aggregate purchase price of
    $403.9 million, which included a $300.0 million
    upfront payment, transaction costs, and an accrual for
    contingent consideration to Monsanto based on estimated future
    Posilac sales for which payment is considered likely beyond a
    reasonable doubt.

This acquisition has been accounted for as a business
    combination under the purchase method of accounting. We
    allocated $204.3 million to identifiable intangible assets
    related to Posilac, $167.6 million to inventories, and
    $99.5 million of the purchase price to property and
    equipment. We also assumed $67.5 million of liabilities.
    Substantially all of the identifiable intangible assets are
    being amortized over their estimated remaining useful lives of
    20 years. The amount allocated to each of the intangible
    assets acquired is deductible for tax purposes.

SGX
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  

On August 20, 2008, we acquired all of the outstanding
    common stock of SGX Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (SGX), a collaboration
    partner since 2003. The acquisition allows us to integrate
    SGX s structure-guided drug discovery platform into our
    drug discovery efforts. It also gives us access to
    FAST  tm  ,

    SGX s fragment-based, protein structure guided drug
    discovery technology, and to a portfolio of preclinical oncology
    compounds focused on a number of kinase targets. Under the terms
    of the agreement, the outstanding shares of SGX common stock
    were redeemed for an aggregate purchase price of
    $66.8 million.

The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination
    under the purchase method of accounting. We allocated
    $29.6 million of the purchase price to deferred tax assets
    and $28.0 million to acquired IPR D. The acquired
    IPR D charge of $28.0 million was recorded in the
    third quarter of 2008 and was not deductible for tax purposes.

ICOS
    Corporation  

On January 29, 2007, we acquired all of the outstanding
    common stock of ICOS Corporation (ICOS), our partner in the
    Lilly ICOS LLC joint venture for the manufacture and sale of
    Cialis for the treatment of erectile dysfunction. The
    acquisition brought the full value of Cialis to us and enabled
    us to realize operational efficiencies in the further
    development, marketing, and selling of this product. The
    aggregate cash purchase price of approximately $2.3 billion
    was financed through borrowings.

The acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination
    under the purchase method of accounting, resulting in goodwill
    of $646.7 million. No portion of this goodwill is expected
    to be deductible for tax purposes.

The other significant components of the purchase price
    allocation were developed product technology (Cialis) of
    $1,659.9 million, the tax benefit of net operating losses
    of $404.1 million, acquired IPR D of
    $303.5 million, cash and short-term investments of
    $197.7 million, deferred tax liability of
    $583.5 million and long-term debt assumed of
    $275.6 million. The developed product technology is being
    amortized over the remaining expected patent lives of Cialis in
    each country; patent expiration dates range from 2015 to 2017.

Other
    Acquisitions  

During the second quarter of 2007, we acquired all of the
    outstanding stock of both Hypnion, Inc. (Hypnion), a privately
    held neuroscience drug discovery company focused on sleep
    disorders, and Ivy Animal Health, Inc. (Ivy), a privately held
    applied research and pharmaceutical product development company
    focused on the animal health industry, for $445.0 million
    in cash.

The acquisition of Hypnion provided us with a broader and more
    substantive presence in the area of sleep disorder research and
    ownership of LY2624803, a novel Phase II compound with a
    dual mechanism of action aimed at promoting better sleep onset
    and sleep maintenance. This was Hypnion s only significant
    asset. For this acquisition, we recorded an acquired IPR D
    charge of $291.1 million, which was not deductible for tax
    purposes. Because Hypnion was a development-stage company, the
    transaction was

50   

accounted for as an acquisition of assets rather than as a
    business combination and, therefore, goodwill was not recorded.

The acquisition of Ivy provided us with products that complement
    those of our animal health business. This acquisition has been
    accounted for as a business combination under the purchase
    method of accounting. We allocated $88.7 million of the
    purchase price to other identifiable intangible assets,
    primarily related to marketed products, $37.0 million to
    acquired IPR D, and $25.0 million to goodwill. The
    other identifiable intangible assets are being amortized over
    their estimated remaining useful lives of 10 to 20 years.
    The $37.0 million allocated to acquired IPR D was
    charged to expense in the second quarter of 2007. Goodwill
    resulting from this acquisition was fully allocated to the
    animal health business segment. The amount allocated to each of
    the intangible assets acquired, including goodwill of
    $25.0 million and the acquired IPR D of
    $37.0 million, was deductible for tax purposes.

Product
    Acquisitions  

In December 2009, we entered into a licensing and collaboration
    agreement with Incyte Corporation to acquire rights to its
    compound, and certain follow-on compounds, for the treatment of
    inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. The lead compound was in
    the development stage (Phase II clinical trials for
    rheumatoid arthritis) and had no alternative future use. As with
    many development-phase compounds, launch of the product, if
    approved, was not expected in the near term. The charge of
    $90.0 million for acquired IPR D related to this
    arrangement was included in expense in the fourth quarter of
    2009 and is deductible for tax purposes. As part of this
    agreement, Incyte has the option to co-develop these compounds
    and the option to co-promote in the United States.

In June 2008, we entered into a licensing and development
    agreement with TransPharma Medical Ltd. (TransPharma) to acquire
    rights to its product and related drug delivery system for the
    treatment of osteoporosis. The product, which is administered
    transdermally using TransPharma s proprietary technology,
    was in Phase II clinical testing, and had no alternative
    future use. Under the arrangement, we also gained non-exclusive
    access to TransPharma s ViaDerm drug delivery system for
    the product. As with many development-phase products, launch of
    the product, if approved, was not expected in the near term. The
    charge of $35.0 million for acquired IPR D related to
    this arrangement was included as expense in the second quarter
    of 2008 and is deductible for tax purposes.

In January 2008, our agreement with BioMS Medical Corp. to
    acquire the rights to its compound for the treatment of multiple
    sclerosis became effective. At the inception of this agreement,
    this compound was in the development stage (Phase III
    clinical trials) and had no alternative future use. As with many
    development-phase compounds, launch of the product, if approved,
    was not expected in the near term. In the third quarter of 2009,
    data from the Phase III clinical trials showed there were
    no statistically significant differences between dirucotide and
    placebo on the primary or secondary endpoints of the study, and
    ongoing clinical trials and the arrangement were discontinued.
    The charge of $87.0 million for acquired IPR D related
    to this arrangement was included as expense in the first quarter
    of 2008 and is deductible for tax purposes.

In October 2007, we entered into an agreement with Glenmark
    Pharmaceuticals Limited India to acquire the rights to a
    portfolio of transient receptor potential vanilloid
     sub-family  1
    (TRPV1) antagonist molecules, including a clinical-phase
    compound. The compound was in early clinical phase development
    as a potential next-generation treatment for various pain
    conditions, including osteoarthritic pain, and had no
    alternative future use. As with many development-phase
    compounds, launch of the product, if approved, was not expected
    in the near term. The charge of $45.0 million for acquired
    IPR D was deductible for tax purposes and was included as
    expense in the fourth quarter of 2007. Development of this
    compound has been suspended.

In October 2007, we entered into a global strategic alliance
    with MacroGenics, Inc. (MacroGenics) to develop and
    commercialize teplizumab, a humanized anti-CD3 monoclonal
    antibody, as well as other potential next-generation anti-CD3
    molecules for use in the treatment of autoimmune diseases. As
    part of the arrangement, we acquired the exclusive rights to the
    molecule, which was in the development stage (Phase II/III
    clinical trial for individuals with recent-onset type 1
    diabetes) and had no alternative future use. As with many
    development-phase compounds, launch of the product, if approved,
    was not expected in the near term. The charge of
    $44.0 million for acquired IPR D was deductible for
    tax purposes and was included as expense in the fourth quarter
    of 2007.

In January 2007, we entered into an agreement with OSI
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc. to acquire the rights to its compound for
    the treatment of type 2 diabetes. At the inception of this
    agreement, this compound was in the development stage (Phase I
    clinical trials) and had no alternative future use. As with many
    development-phase compounds, launch of the product, if approved,
    was not expected in the near term. The charge of
    $25.0 million for acquired IPR D related to this
    arrangement was included as expense in the first quarter of 2007
    and was deductible for tax purposes.

51   

In connection with these arrangements, our partners are
    generally entitled to future milestones and royalties based on
    sales should these products be approved for commercialization.

Note 4:  Collaborations  

We often enter into collaborative arrangements to develop and
    commercialize drug candidates. Collaborative activities might
    include research and development, marketing and selling
    (including promotional activities and physician detailing),
    manufacturing, and distribution. These collaborations often
    require milestone and royalty or profit share payments,
    contingent upon the occurrence of certain future events linked
    to the success of the asset in development, as well as expense
    reimbursements or payments to the third party. Revenues related
    to products sold by us pursuant to these arrangements are
    included in net product sales, while other sources of revenue
    (e.g., royalties and profit share payments) are included in
    collaboration and other revenue. Operating expenses for costs
    incurred pursuant to these arrangements are reported in their
    respective expense line item, net of any payments made to or
    reimbursements received from our collaboration partners. Each
    collaboration is unique in nature, and our more significant
    arrangements are discussed below.

Erbitux  

Prior to our acquisition in November 2008, ImClone entered into
    several collaborations with respect to Erbitux, a product
    approved to fight cancer, while still in its development phase.
    The most significant collaborations operate in these geographic
    territories: the U.S., Japan, and Canada (Bristol-Myers Squibb
    Company); and worldwide except the U.S. and Canada (Merck
    KGaA). The agreements are expected to expire in 2018, upon which
    all of the rights with respect to Erbitux in the U.S. and
    Canada return to us. The following table summarizes the revenue
    recognized with respect to Erbitux:

Bristol-Myers
    Squibb Company   

Pursuant to a commercial agreement with Bristol-Myers Squibb
    Company and E.R. Squibb (collectively, BMS), relating to
    Erbitux, ImClone is co-developing and co-promoting Erbitux in
    the U.S. and Canada with BMS, exclusively, and in Japan
    with BMS and Merck KGaA. The companies have jointly agreed to
    expand the investment in the ongoing clinical development plan
    for Erbitux to further explore its use in additional tumor
    types. Under this arrangement, Erbitux research and development
    and other costs, up to threshold amounts, are the sole
    responsibility of BMS, with costs in excess of the thresholds
    shared by both companies according to a predetermined ratio.

Responsibilities associated with clinical and other ongoing
    studies are apportioned between the parties as determined
    pursuant to the agreement. Collaborative reimbursements received
    by ImClone for supply of clinical trial materials; for research
    and development; and for a portion of marketing, selling, and
    administrative expenses are recorded as a reduction to the
    respective expense line items on the consolidated statement of
    operations. We receive a distribution fee in the form of a
    royalty from BMS, based on a percentage of net sales in the
    U.S. and Canada, which is recorded in collaboration and
    other revenue. Royalty expense paid to third parties, net of any
    reimbursements received, is recorded as a reduction of
    collaboration and other revenue.

We are responsible for the manufacture and supply of all
    requirements of Erbitux in bulk-form active pharmaceutical
    ingredient (API) for clinical and commercial use in the
    territory, and BMS will purchase all of its requirements of API
    for commercial use from us, subject to certain stipulations per
    the agreement. Sales of Erbitux to BMS for commercial use are
    reported in net product sales.

Merck
    KGaA   

A development and license agreement between ImClone and Merck
    KGaA (Merck) with respect to Erbitux granted Merck exclusive
    rights to market Erbitux outside of the U.S. and Canada,
    and co-exclusive rights with BMS and ImClone in Japan. Merck
    also has rights to manufacture Erbitux for supply in its
    territory. We manufacture and provide a portion of Merck s
    requirements for API, which is included in net product sales. We
    also receive a royalty on the sales of Erbitux outside of the
    U.S. and Canada, which is included in collaboration and
    other revenue as earned. Collaborative reimbursements received
    for supply of product; for research and development; and
    marketing, selling, and administrative expenses are recorded as
    a reduction to the respective expense line items on the
    consolidated statement of operations. Royalty

52   

expense paid to third parties, net of any royalty reimbursements
    received, is recorded as a reduction of collaboration and other
    revenue.

Necitumumab  

In January 2010, we restructured the collaboration agreement
    executed by ImClone and BMS in 2001 to allow for the
    co-development and co-commercialization of necitumumab, which is
    currently in Phase III clinical testing for non-small cell
    lung cancer. Within this restructured arrangement, we and BMS
    have agreed to share in the cost of developing and potentially
    commercializing necitumumab in the U.S., Canada, and Japan. We
    maintain exclusive rights to necitumumab in all other markets.
    We will fund 45 percent of the development costs for
    studies that will be used only in the U.S., and 72.5 percent for
    global studies. We will be responsible for the manufacturing of
    API and BMS will be responsible for manufacturing the finished
    product. We could receive a payment of $250.0 million upon
    approval in the U.S. In the U.S. and Canada, BMS will
    record sales and we will receive 45 percent of the profits for
    necitumumab, while we will provide 50 percent of the selling
    effort. In Japan, we and BMS will share costs and profits evenly.

Exenatide  

We are in a collaborative arrangement with Amylin
    Pharmaceuticals (Amylin) for the joint development, marketing,
    and selling of Byetta (exenatide injection) and other forms of
    exenatide such as exenatide once weekly. Byetta is presently
    approved as an adjunctive therapy to improve glycemic control in
    patients with type 2 diabetes who have not achieved adequate
    glycemic control using metformin, a sulfonylurea or a
    combination of metformin and sulfonylurea; and in the U.S. only,
    using a thiazolidinedione (with or without metformin) and as a
    monotherapy. Lilly and Amylin are co-promoting exenatide in the
    U.S. Amylin is responsible for manufacturing and primarily
    utilizes third-party contract manufacturers to supply Byetta.
    However, we are manufacturing Byetta pen delivery devices for
    Amylin. We are responsible for development and commercialization
    costs outside the U.S.

Under the terms of our arrangement, we report as collaboration
    and other revenue our 50 percent share of gross margin on
    Amylin s net product sales in the U.S. We report as
    net product sales 100 percent of sales outside the
    U.S. and our sales of Byetta pen delivery devices to
    Amylin. The following table summarizes the revenue recognized
    with respect to Byetta:

We pay Amylin a percentage of the gross margin of exenatide
    sales outside of the U.S., and these costs are recorded in cost
    of sales. Under the
     50/50 
    profit-sharing arrangement for the U.S., in addition to
    recording as revenue our 50 percent share of
    exenatide s gross margin, we also report 50 percent of
    U.S. research and development costs and marketing and
    selling costs in the respective line items on the consolidated
    statements of operations.

A New Drug Application has been submitted to the U.S. Food
    and Drug Administration (FDA) for exenatide once weekly. Amylin
    is constructing and will operate a manufacturing facility for
    exenatide once weekly, and we have entered into a supply
    agreement in which Amylin will supply exenatide once weekly
    product to us for sales outside the U.S. The estimated
    total cost of the facility is approximately $550 million.
    In 2008, we paid $125.0 million to Amylin, which we will
    amortize to cost of sales over the estimated life of the supply
    agreement beginning with product launch. We would be required to
    reimburse Amylin for a portion of any future impairment of this
    facility, recognized in accordance with GAAP. A portion of the
    $125.0 million payment we made to Amylin would be
    creditable against any amount we would owe as a result of
    impairment. We have also agreed to loan up to
    $165.0 million to Amylin at an indexed rate beginning
    December 1, 2009; no amounts were loaned in 2009 and any
    borrowings have to be repaid by June 30, 2014. We have also
    agreed to cooperate with Amylin in the development,
    manufacturing, and marketing of exenatide once weekly in a
    dual-chamber cartridge pen configuration. We will contribute
    60 percent of the total initial capital costs of the
    project, our portion of which will be approximately
    $130 million, of which we have contributed approximately
    $50 million as of December 31, 2009.

Cymbalta  

Boehringer
    Ingelheim   

We are in a collaborative arrangement with Boehringer Ingelheim
    (BI) to jointly market and promote Cymbalta, a product for the
    treatment of major depressive disorder, diabetic peripheral
    neuropathic pain, generalized anxiety disorder, and
    fibromyalgia, outside the U.S. Pursuant to the terms of the
    agreement, we generally share equally in development, marketing,
    and selling expenses, and pay BI a commission on

53   

sales in the co-promotion territories. We manufacture the
    product for all territories. Reimbursements or payments for the
    cost sharing of marketing, selling, and administrative expenses
    are recorded in the respective expense line items in the
    consolidated statements of operations. The commission paid to BI
    is recognized in marketing, selling, and administrative expenses.

Quintiles   

We were in a collaborative arrangement with Quintiles
    Transnational Corp. (Quintiles) to jointly market and promote
    Cymbalta in the U.S. since Cymbalta s launch in 2004.
    Pursuant to the terms of the agreement, Quintiles shared in the
    costs to co-promote Cymbalta with us and receives a commission
    based upon net product sales. According to that agreement,
    Quintiles  obligation to promote Cymbalta expired during
    2009, and we will pay a lower rate on net product sales for
    three years after completion of the promotion efforts specified
    in that agreement. The commissions paid to Quintiles are
    recorded in marketing, selling, and administrative expenses.

Effient  

We are in a collaborative arrangement with Daiichi Sankyo
    Company, Limited (D-S) to develop, market, and promote Effient,
    an antiplatelet agent for the treatment of patients with acute
    coronary syndromes (ACS) who are being managed with an
    artery-opening procedure known as percutaneous coronary
    intervention (PCI). The product was approved for marketing by
    the European Commission under the tradename Efient in February
    2009, and the initial sales were recorded in the first quarter
    of 2009. The product was also approved for marketing by the FDA
    under the tradename Effient in July 2009, and the initial sales
    in the U.S. were recorded in the third quarter. Within this
    arrangement, we and D-S have agreed to co-promote under the same
    trademark in certain territories (including the U.S. and
    five major European markets), while we have exclusive marketing
    rights in certain other territories. D-S has exclusive marketing
    rights in Japan. Under the agreement, we paid D-S an upfront
    license fee and agreed to pay future success milestones. The
    parties share approximately
     50/50  in the
    profits, as well as in the costs of development and marketing in
    the co-promotion territories. A third party manufactures bulk
    product, and we produce the finished product for our exclusive
    and co-promotion territories. We record product sales in our
    exclusive and co-promotion territories. In our exclusive
    territories, we will pay D-S a royalty specific to these
    territories. Profit share payments made to D-S are recorded as
    marketing, selling, and administrative expenses. All royalties
    paid to D-S and the third-party manufacturer are recorded in
    cost of sales. Worldwide Effient sales were $27.0 million
    in 2009. The product is in the early phases of launch in both
    the U.S. and Europe.

TPG-Axon
    Capital  

In 2008, we entered into an agreement with an affiliate of
    TPG-Axon Capital (TPG) for the Phase III development of a
    gamma-secretase inhibitor and an A-beta antibody, our two lead
    molecules for the treatment of mild to moderate Alzheimer s
    disease. Under the agreement, both we and TPG will provide
    funding for the Alzheimer s clinical trials. Funding from
    TPG will not exceed $325 million and could extend into
    2014. In exchange for their funding, TPG may receive
    success-based milestones totaling $330 million and mid- to
    high-single digit royalties that are contingent upon the
    successful development of the Alzheimer s treatments. The
    royalties will be paid for approximately eight years after
    launch of a product. Reimbursements received from TPG for its
    portion of research and development costs incurred related to
    the Alzheimer s treatments are recorded as a reduction to
    the research and development expense line item on the
    consolidated statements of operations. The reimbursement from
    TPG is not expected to be material in any period.

Summary of Collaboration Related Commission and Profit Share
    Payments 

The aggregate amount of commission and profit share payments
    included in marketing, selling, and administrative expense
    pursuant to the collaborations described above was
    $319.2 million, $307.6 million, and
    $217.5 million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.

Note 5:  Asset
    Impairments, Restructuring, and Other Special Charges  

The components of the charges included in asset impairments,
    restructuring, and other special charges in our consolidated
    statements of operations are described below.

Asset Impairments
    and Related Restructuring and Other Charges  

Asset impairments, restructuring, and other special charges of
    $37.9 million were recognized in the fourth quarter of 2009
    as a result of our announced initiatives to reduce our cost
    structure and global workforce. These charges relate to
    severance costs which are expected to be paid in the first half
    of 2010.

We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other
    special charges of $424.8 million in the third quarter of
    2009 primarily due to the sale of our Tippecanoe Laboratories
    manufacturing site to an affiliate

54   

of Evonik Industries AG (Evonik) in early 2010. In connection
    with the sale of the site, we entered into a nine-year supply
    and services agreement, whereby Evonik will manufacture final
    and intermediate step active pharmaceutical ingredient (API) for
    certain of our human and animal health products. The decision to
    sell the site was based upon a projected decline in utilization
    of the site due to several factors, including upcoming patent
    expirations on certain medicines made at the site; our strategic
    decision to purchase, rather than manufacture, many late-stage
    chemical intermediates; and the evolution of our pipeline toward
    more biotechnology medicines. In addition to the sale of the
    Tippecanoe site, in the third quarter of 2009 we announced a
    voluntary exit program for certain U.S. sales employees.
    Components of the third-quarter restructuring charge include
    non-cash asset impairment charges and other charges of
    $363.7 million, and $61.1 million in severance related
    charges, substantially all of which is expected to be paid in
    cash by early 2010. The fair value of assets used in determining
    impairment charges was based on contracted sales prices.

We incurred asset impairments, restructuring, and other special
    charges of $80.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2008.
    These charges were the result of decisions approved by
    management in the fourth quarter as well as previously announced
    strategic decisions. The primary components of this charge
    include non-cash asset impairments of $35.1 million for the
    write down of impaired assets, all of which have no future use,
    and other charges of $44.9 million, primarily related to
    severance and environmental cleanup charges in connection with
    previously announced strategic decisions made in prior periods.
    Substantially all of these costs were paid during 2009.

Further, in the third quarter of 2008, as a result of our
    previously announced agreements with Covance Inc. (Covance),
    Quintiles Transnational Corp. (Quintiles), and Ingenix
    Pharmaceutical Services, Inc., doing business as i3 Statprobe
    (i3), and as part of our efforts to transform into a more
    flexible organization, we recognized asset impairments,
    restructuring, and other special charges of $182.4 million.
    We sold our Greenfield, Indiana site to Covance, a global drug
    development services firm, and entered into a
     10-year 
    service agreement under which Covance will provide preclinical
    toxicology work and perform additional clinical trials for us as
    well as operate the site to meet our needs and those of other
    pharmaceutical industry clients. In addition, we signed
    agreements with Quintiles for clinical trial monitoring services
    and with i3 for clinical data management services. Components of
    the third-quarter restructuring charge include non-cash charges
    of $148.3 million primarily related to the loss on sale of
    assets sold to Covance, severance costs of $27.8 million,
    and exit costs of $6.3 million. Substantially all of these
    costs were paid in 2008.

In the second quarter of 2008, we recognized restructuring and
    other special charges of $88.9 million. In addition, we
    recognized non-cash charges of $57.1 million for the write
    down of impaired manufacturing assets that had no future use,
    which were included in cost of sales. In April 2008, we
    announced a voluntary exit program that was offered to employees
    primarily in manufacturing. Components of the second-quarter
    restructuring charge include total severance costs of
    $53.5 million related to these programs and
    $35.4 million related to exit costs incurred during the
    second quarter in connection with previously announced strategic
    decisions made in prior periods. Substantially all of these
    costs were paid by the end of July 2008.

In March 2008, we terminated development of our AIR Insulin
    program, which was being conducted in collaboration with
    Alkermes, Inc. The program had been in Phase III clinical
    development as a potential treatment for type 1 and
    type 2 diabetes. This decision was not a result of any
    observations during AIR Insulin trials relating to the safety of
    the product, but rather was a result of increasing uncertainties
    in the regulatory environment, and a thorough evaluation of the
    evolving commercial and clinical potential of the product
    compared to existing medical therapies. As a result of this
    decision, we halted our ongoing clinical studies and
    transitioned the AIR Insulin patients in these studies to other
    appropriate therapies. We implemented a patient program in the
    U.S., and other regions of the world where allowed, to provide
    clinical trial participants with appropriate financial support
    to fund their medications and diagnostic supplies through the
    end of 2008.

We recognized asset impairments, restructuring, and other
    special charges of $145.7 million in the first quarter of
    2008. These charges were primarily related to the decision to
    terminate development of AIR Insulin. Components of these
    charges included non-cash charges of $40.9 million for the
    write down of impaired manufacturing assets that had no use
    beyond the AIR Insulin program, as well as charges of
    $91.7 million for estimated contractual obligations and
    wind-down costs associated with the termination of clinical
    trials and certain development activities, and costs associated
    with the patient program to transition participants from AIR
    Insulin. This amount includes an estimate of Alkermes 
    wind-down costs for which we were contractually obligated. The
    wind-down activities and patient programs were substantially
    complete by the end of 2008. The remaining component of these
    charges, $13.1 million, is related to exit costs incurred
    in the first quarter of 2008 in connection with previously
    announced strategic decisions made in prior periods.

55   

We incurred asset impairments, restructuring, and other special
    charges of $67.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2007.
    These charges were a result of decisions approved by management
    in the fourth quarter as well as previously announced strategic
    decisions. Components of this charge include non-cash charges of
    $42.5 million for the write down of impaired assets, all of
    which have no future use, and other charges of
    $25.1 million, primarily related to additional severance
    and environmental cleanup charges related to previously
    announced strategic decisions. The impairment charges were
    necessary to adjust the carrying value of the assets to fair
    value. These restructuring activities were substantially
    complete at December 31, 2007.

In connection with previously announced strategic decisions, we
    recorded asset impairments, restructuring, and other special
    charges of $123.0 million in the first quarter of 2007.
    These charges primarily related to a voluntary severance program
    at one of our U.S. plants and other costs related to this
    action as well as management actions taken in the fourth quarter
    of 2006 to close two research and development facilities and one
    production facility outside the U.S. The component of these
    charges related to the non-cash asset impairment was
    $67.6 million, and were necessary to adjust the carrying
    value of the assets to fair value. These restructuring
    activities were substantially complete at December 31, 2007.

Product Liability
    and Other Special Charges  

In the second and the third quarters of 2009, we incurred other
    special charges of $105.0 million and $125.0 million,
    respectively, related to advanced discussions with the attorneys
    general for several states that were not part of the Eastern
    District of Pennsylvania settlement, seeking to resolve their
    Zyprexa-related claims. The charge represents the currently
    probable and estimable exposures in connection with the
    states  claims. Refer to Note 14 for additional
    information.

As discussed further in Note 14, in the third quarter of
    2008, we recorded a charge of $1.48 billion related to the
    Zyprexa investigations led by the U.S. Attorney for the
    Eastern District of Pennsylvania, as well as the resolution of a
    multi-state investigation regarding Zyprexa involving
    32 states and the District of Columbia.

As a result of our product liability exposures, the substantial
    majority of which were related to Zyprexa, we recorded net
    pretax charges of $111.9 million in 2007. These charges,
    which are net of anticipated insurance recoveries, include the
    costs of product liability settlements and related defense
    costs, reserves for product liability exposures and defense
    costs regarding known product liability claims, and expected
    future claims to the extent we could formulate a reasonable
    estimate of the probable number and cost of the claims. See
    Note 14 for further discussion.

Note 6:  Financial
    Instruments and Investments  

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to credit risk
    consist principally of trade receivables and interest-bearing
    investments. Wholesale distributors of life-sciences products
    account for a substantial portion of trade receivables;
    collateral is generally not required. The risk associated with
    this concentration is mitigated by our ongoing credit review
    procedures and insurance. Major financial institutions represent
    the largest component of our investments in corporate debt
    securities. In accordance with documented corporate policies, we
    limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial
    institution or corporate issuer. We are exposed to
    credit-related losses in the event of nonperformance by
    counterparties to risk-management instruments but do not expect
    any counterparties to fail to meet their obligations given their
    high credit ratings.

At December 31, 2009, we had outstanding foreign currency
    forward commitments to purchase 518 million British pounds
    and sell 578 million euro, commitments to purchase
    194 million U.S. dollars and sell 131 million
    euro, and commitments to buy 151 million euro and sell
    218 million U.S. dollars, which will settle within
    35 days.

At December 31, 2009, approximately 97 percent of our
    total debt is at a fixed rate. We have converted approximately
    65 percent of our fixed-rate debt to floating rates through
    the use of interest rate swaps.

The Effect of
    Risk-Management Instruments on the Statement of
    Operations  

Both the gains on the hedged fixed-rate debt and the offsetting
    losses on the related interest rate swaps for 2009 were
    $369.5 million. All of these amounts net to zero and are
    included in
     other-net, 
    expense (income).

We expect to reclassify $12.0 million of pretax net losses
    on cash flow hedges of the variability in expected future
    interest payments on floating rate debt from accumulated other
    comprehensive loss to earnings during the next 12 months.

56   

Other-net, 
    expense (income) for 2009 includes the effective portion of
    losses on interest rate contracts in designated cash flow
    hedging relationships reclassified from accumulated other
    comprehensive loss into income of $10.2 million, and the
    net gains on foreign exchange contracts not designated as
    hedging instruments recognized in income of $43.4 million.
    The effective portions of net gains on interest rate contracts
    in designated cash flow hedging relationships recorded in other
    comprehensive income (loss) for 2009 was $38.0 million.

During the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007,
    net losses related to ineffectiveness and net losses related to
    the portion of our risk-management hedging instruments, fair
    value and cash flow hedges excluded from the assessment of
    effectiveness were not material.

57   

Fair Value of
    Financial Instruments  

The following tables summarize certain fair value information at
    December 31 for assets and liabilities measured at fair value on
    a recurring basis, as well as the carrying amount and amortized
    cost of certain other investments:

58   

NA Not applicable

We determine fair values based on a market approach using quoted
    market values, significant other observable inputs for identical
    or comparable assets or liabilities, or discounted cash flow
    analyses. The fair value of equity method and other investments
    is not readily available. Approximately $235 million of our
    investments in debt securities, measured at fair value, mature
    within five years.

A summary of the fair value of
     available-for-sale 
    securities in an unrealized gain or loss position and the amount
    of unrealized gains and losses (pretax) in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss at December 31 follows:

As discussed further in Note 2, a new accounting
    pronouncement effective in 2009 changed the accounting for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment losses for debt securities, providing that the amount
    of the
     other-than-temporary 
    losses recorded in earnings is limited to the portion attributed
    to credit losses, with the remaining portion recorded in other
    comprehensive income (loss). A summary of
     other-than-temporary 
    losses on our investments in debt securities follows:

2009 

Losses recognized in the statement of operations

$ 

22.4 

Losses recognized in other comprehensive income (loss)

9.6 

Total
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment losses

$ 

32.0 

59   

The
     other-than-temporary 
    losses recognized in the statement of operations primarily
    relate to credit losses on certain mortgage-backed securities.
    The amount of credit losses represents the difference between
    the present value of cash flows expected to be collected on
    these securities and the amortized cost. Factors considered in
    assessing the credit loss were the position in the capital
    structure, vintage and amount of collateral, delinquency rates,
    current credit support, and geographic concentration.

The securities in an unrealized loss position are comprised of
    fixed-rate debt securities of varying maturities. The value of
    fixed income securities is sensitive to changes to the yield
    curve and other market conditions which led to the decline in
    value during 2008. Approximately 50 percent of the
    securities in a loss position are investment-grade debt
    securities. The majority of these securities first moved into an
    unrealized loss position during 2008. At this time, there is no
    indication of default on interest or principal payments for debt
    securities other than those for which an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment charge has been recorded. We do not intend to sell
    and it is not more likely than not we will be required to sell
    the securities in a loss position before the market values
    recover or the underlying cash flows have been received, and we
    have concluded that no additional
     other-than-temporary 
    loss is required to be charged to earnings as of
    December 31, 2009. The fair values of our auction rate
    securities and collateralized debt obligations held at
    December 31, 2009 were determined using Level 3
    inputs. We do not hold securities issued by structured
    investment vehicles at December 31, 2009.

The net adjustment to unrealized gains and losses (net of tax)
    on
     available-for-sale 
    securities increased (decreased) other comprehensive income
    (loss) by $186.6 million, $(125.8) million, and
    $(5.4) million in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.
    Activity related to our
     available-for-sale 
    investment portfolio was as follows:

Note 7:  Borrowings  

Long-term debt at December 31 consisted of the following:

In March 2009, we issued $2.40 billion of fixed-rate notes
    with interest to be paid semi-annually. The $400.0 million
    of floating rate bonds outstanding at December 31, 2008
    were repaid with proceeds from this issuance.

The 6.55 percent Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)
    debentures are obligations of the ESOP but are shown on the
    consolidated balance sheet because we guarantee them. The
    principal and interest on the debt are funded by contributions
    from us and by dividends received on certain shares held by the
    ESOP. Because of the amortizing feature of the ESOP debt,
    bondholders will receive both interest and principal payments
    each quarter. The balance was $72.8 million and
    $81.9 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, and is included in Other in the table above.

The aggregate amounts of maturities on long-term debt for the
    next five years are as follows: 2010, $20.3 million; 2011,
    $15.8 million; 2012, $1.51 billion; 2013,
    $13.9 million; and 2014, $1.01 billion.

At December 31, 2009 and 2008, short-term borrowings
    included $7.1 million and $5.43 billion, respectively,
    of notes payable to banks and commercial paper. Commercial paper
    was issued in late 2008 for the acquisition of ImClone. At
    December 31, 2009, we have $1.24 billion of unused
    committed bank credit facilities, $1.20 billion of which
    backs our commercial paper program and matures in May, 2011.
    Compensating balances and commitment fees are not material, and
    there are no conditions that are probable of occurring under
    which the lines may be withdrawn.

60   

We have converted approximately 65 percent of all
    fixed-rate debt to floating rates through the use of interest
    rate swaps. The weighted-average effective borrowing rates based
    on debt obligations and interest rates at December 31, 2009
    and 2008, including the effects of interest rate swaps for
    hedged debt obligations, were 3.07 percent and
    4.77 percent, respectively.

In 2009, 2008, and 2007, cash payments of interest on borrowings
    totaled $205.9 million, $203.1 million, and
    $159.2 million, respectively, net of capitalized interest.

In accordance with the requirements of derivatives and hedging
    guidance, the portion of our fixed-rate debt obligations that is
    hedged is reflected in the consolidated balance sheets as an
    amount equal to the sum of the debt s carrying value plus
    the fair value adjustment representing changes in fair value of
    the hedged debt attributable to movements in market interest
    rates subsequent to the inception of the hedge.

Note 8:  Stock-Based
    Compensation  

Stock-based compensation expense in the amount of
    $368.5 million, $255.3 million, and
    $282.0 million was recognized in 2009, 2008, and 2007,
    respectively, as well as related tax benefits of
    $128.9 million, $88.6 million, and $96.4 million,
    respectively. Our stock-based compensation expense consists
    primarily of performance awards (PAs), and shareholder value
    awards (SVAs). We recognize the stock-based compensation expense
    over the requisite service period of the individual grantees,
    which generally equals the vesting period. We provide newly
    issued shares and treasury stock to satisfy stock option
    exercises and for the issuance of PA and SVA shares. We classify
    tax benefits resulting from tax deductions in excess of the
    compensation cost recognized for exercised stock options as a
    financing cash flow in the consolidated statements of cash flows.

At December 31, 2009, additional stock-based compensation
    awards may be granted under the 2002 Lilly Stock Plan for not
    more than 84.6 million shares.

Performance Award
    Program  

PAs are granted to officers and management and are payable in
    shares of our common stock. The number of PA shares actually
    issued, if any, varies depending on the achievement of certain
    pre-established
     earnings-per-share 
    targets. In 2009, we granted both a one-year and a two-year
    award to all global management as a transition to a two-year
    performance period for all PAs granted beginning in 2010. PA
    shares are accounted for at fair value based upon the closing
    stock price on the date of grant and fully vest at the end of
    the fiscal year of the grant. The fair values of performance
    awards granted in 2009 were $36.17 for the one-year award and
    $34.12 for the two-year award. The fair values of PAs granted in
    2008 and 2007 were $51.22 and $54.23, respectively. The number
    of shares ultimately issued for the performance award program is
    dependent upon the earnings achieved during the vesting period.
    Pursuant to this plan, approximately 2.8 million shares,
    2.5 million shares, and 2.3 million shares were issued
    in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Approximately
    4.4 million shares are expected to be issued in 2010. As of
    December 31, 2009, the total remaining unrecognized
    compensation cost related to nonvested PAs amounted to
    $88.8 million, which will be amortized over the
    weighted-average remaining requisite service period of
    12.0 months.

Shareholder Value
    Award Program  

In 2007, we implemented a SVA program, which replaced our stock
    option program. SVAs are granted to officers and management and
    are payable in shares of common stock at the end of a three-year
    period. The number of shares actually issued varies depending on
    our stock price at the end of the three-year vesting period
    compared to pre-established target stock prices. We measure the
    fair value of the SVA unit on the grant date using a Monte Carlo
    simulation model. The Monte Carlo simulation model utilizes
    multiple input variables that determine the probability of
    satisfying the market condition stipulated in the award grant
    and calculates the fair value of the award. Expected
    volatilities utilized in the model are based on implied
    volatilities from traded options on our stock, historical
    volatility of our stock price, and other factors. Similarly, the
    dividend yield is based on historical experience and our
    estimate of future dividend yields. The risk-free interest rate
    is derived from the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at
    the time of grant. The weighted-average fair values of the SVA
    units granted during 2009, 2008, and 2007 were $33.97, $43.46,
    and $49.85, respectively, determined using the following
    assumptions:

61   

A summary of the SVA activity is presented below:

The maximum number of shares that could ultimately be issued
    upon vesting of the SVA units outstanding at December 31,
    2009, is 3.7 million. Approximately 0.4 million shares
    are expected to be issued in 2010. As of December 31, 2009,
    the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to
    nonvested SVAs amounted to $48.1 million, which will be
    amortized over the weighted-average remaining requisite service
    period of 20.7 months.

Stock Option
    Program  

Stock options were granted prior to 2007 to officers and
    management at exercise prices equal to the fair market value of
    our stock price at the date of grant. No stock options were
    granted subsequent to 2007. Options fully vest three years from
    the grant date and have a term of 10 years.

Stock option activity during 2009 is summarized below:

A summary of the status of nonvested options as of
    December 31, 2009, and changes during the year then ended,
    is presented below:

The intrinsic value of options exercised during 2009, 2008, and
    2007 amounted to $0.3 million, $4.8 million, and
    $1.5 million, respectively. The total grant date fair value
    of options vested during 2009, 2008, and 2007 amounted to
    $68.5 million, $84.1 million, and $381.8 million,
    respectively. We received cash of $0.2 million,
    $2.9 million, and $15.2 million from exercises of
    stock options during 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. The
    recognized related tax benefits for all three years were not
    material.

Note 9:  Other
    Assets and Other Liabilities  

Our other receivables include receivables from our collaboration
    partners, tax receivables, interest receivable for our interest
    rate swaps, and a variety of other items. The decrease in other
    receivables is

62   

primarily attributable to a decrease in receivables from our
    collaboration partners and a decrease in tax receivables, offset
    by an increase in interest rate swap receivables.

Our prepaid expenses include prepaid income taxes and other
    global prepaid expenses. The increase in prepaid expenses is
    primarily attributable to income taxes paid on prepaid
    intercompany royalties.

Our sundry assets primarily include our capitalized computer
    software, deferred tax assets (Note 12), receivables from
    our collaboration partners, and the fair value of our interest
    rate swaps. The decrease in sundry assets is primarily
    attributable to a decrease in deferred tax assets and a decrease
    in the fair value of our interest rate swaps.

Our other current liabilities include product litigation, tax
    liabilities, deferred income from our collaboration
    arrangements, and a variety of other items. The decrease in
    other current liabilities is caused primarily by a decrease in
    product litigation liabilities, specifically, the
    $1.42 billion related to the EDPA settlements which was
    paid in 2009 as discussed in Note 14, and a decrease in
    current deferred taxes.

Our other noncurrent liabilities include deferred income from
    our collaboration and out-licensing arrangements, the long-term
    portion of our estimated product return liabilities, product
    litigation, and a variety of other items. The decrease in other
    noncurrent liabilities is primarily due to a decrease in
    deferred income and a decrease in product litigation reserves.

Note 10:  Shareholders 
    Equity  

Changes in certain components of shareholders  equity were
    as follows:

63   

As of December 31, 2009, we have purchased
    $2.58 billion of our announced $3.0 billion share
    repurchase program. No shares were repurchased in 2009, 2008, or
    2007.

We have 5 million authorized shares of preferred stock. As
    of December 31, 2009 and 2008, no preferred stock has been
    issued.

We have funded an employee benefit trust with 50 million
    and 40 million shares of our common stock at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, to provide a
    source of funds to assist us in meeting our obligations under
    various employee benefit plans. In February 2009, we contributed
    an additional 10 million shares to the employee benefit
    trust, which resulted in a reclassification within equity from
    additional
     paid-in 
    capital of $371.9 million and common stock of
    $6.3 million to the employee benefit trust of
    $378.2 million. The funding had no net impact on
    shareholders  equity as we consolidate the employee benefit
    trust. The cost basis of the shares held in the trust was
    $3.01 billion and $2.64 billion at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively, and is shown as a reduction in
    shareholders  equity, which offsets the resulting increases
    of $2.98 billion and $2.61 billion in additional
    paid-in capital and $31.3 million and $25.0 million in
    common stock at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.
    Any dividend transactions between us and the trust are
    eliminated. Stock held by the trust is not considered
    outstanding in the computation of earnings per share. The assets
    of the trust were not used to fund any of our obligations under
    these employee benefit plans in 2009, 2008, or 2007.

We have an ESOP as a funding vehicle for the existing employee
    savings plan. The ESOP used the proceeds of a loan from us to
    purchase shares of common stock from the treasury. The ESOP
    issued $200.0 million of third-party debt, repayment of
    which was guaranteed by us (see Note 7). The proceeds were
    used to purchase shares of our common stock on the open market.
    Shares of common stock held by the ESOP will be allocated to
    participating employees annually through 2017 as part of our
    savings plan contribution. The fair value of shares allocated
    each period is recognized as compensation expense.

Note 11:  Earnings
    (Loss) Per Share  

Following is a reconciliation of the denominators used in
    computing earnings (loss) per share:

64   

Note 12:  Income
    Taxes  

Following is the composition of income tax expense:

Significant components of our deferred tax assets and
    liabilities as of December 31 are as follows:

At December 31, 2009, we had net operating losses and other
    carryforwards for international and U.S. income tax
    purposes of $942.8 million: $126.3 million will expire
    within 5 years; $804.0 million will expire between 5
    and 20 years; and $12.5 million of the carryforwards
    will never expire. The primary component of the remaining
    portion of the deferred tax asset for tax loss carryforwards and
    carrybacks is related to net operating losses for state income
    tax purposes that are fully reserved. We also have tax credit
    carryforwards and carrybacks of $738.2 million available to
    reduce future income taxes; $268.7 million will be carried
    back; $37.6 million of the tax credit carryforwards will
    expire between 10 and 20 years; and $12.9 million of
    the tax credit carryforwards will never expire. The remaining
    portion of the tax credit carryforwards is related to federal
    tax credits of $94.6 million and state tax credits of
    $324.4 million, both of which are fully reserved.

65   

Domestic and Puerto Rican companies contributed approximately
    39 percent and 7 percent in 2009 and 2007,
    respectively, to consolidated income before income taxes and
    generated the entire consolidated loss before income taxes in
    2008. We have a subsidiary operating in Puerto Rico under a tax
    incentive grant. The current tax incentive grant will not expire
    prior to 2017.

At December 31, 2009, we had an aggregate of
    $15.46 billion of unremitted earnings of foreign
    subsidiaries that have been or are intended to be permanently
    reinvested for continued use in foreign operations and that, if
    distributed, would result in additional income tax expense at
    approximately the U.S. statutory rate.

Cash payments (refunds) of income taxes totaled
    $1.14 billion, $(52.0) million, and $1.01 billion
    in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively.

Following is a reconciliation of the income tax expense
    (benefit) applying the U.S. federal statutory rate to
    income (loss) before income taxes to reported income tax expense:

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross
    unrecognized tax benefits is as follows:

The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if
    recognized, would affect our effective tax rate was
    $836.8 million and $863.8 million at December 31,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

We file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction
    and various state, local, and
     non-U.S. jurisdictions. 
    We are no longer subject to U.S. federal, state and local,
    or
     non-U.S. income 
    tax examinations in major taxing jurisdictions for years before
    2002. During the first quarter of 2008, we completed and
    effectively settled our IRS audit of tax years
     2001-2004 
    except for one matter for which we were seeking resolution
    through the IRS administrative appeals process. As a result of
    the IRS audit conclusion, gross unrecognized tax benefits were
    reduced by approximately $618 million, and the consolidated
    results of operations were benefited by $210.3 million
    through a reduction in income tax expense. The majority of the
    reduction in gross unrecognized tax benefits related to
    intercompany pricing positions that were agreed with the IRS in
    a prior audit cycle for which a prepayment of tax was made in
    2005. Application of the prepayment and utilization of tax
    carryovers resulted in a refund of approximately
    $50 million.

The IRS began its examination of tax years
     2005-2007 
    during the third quarter of 2008. In addition, the IRS
    administrative appeals matter from the
     2001-2004 
    IRS audit was settled in the third quarter of 2009. Considering
    the current status of the
     2005-2007 
    IRS examination and the settlement of the IRS administrative
    appeals matter from the
     2001-2004 
    audit, gross unrecognized tax benefits were reduced
    approximately $190 million in the third quarter of 2009. As
    a result, our income tax expense was reduced by
    $54.4 million. After utilization of all tax credit
    carryovers, a cash payment of $52.8 million was paid in the
    third quarter of 2009 upon settlement of the IRS appeals matter.
    While the IRS is currently examining tax years
     2005-2007, 
    the resolution of all issues in this audit period will likely
    extend beyond the next 12 months.

66   

We recognize both accrued interest and penalties related to
    unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. During the
    years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007, we
    recognized income tax expense (benefits) of $(1.9) million,
    $(118.0) million, and $66.6 million, respectively,
    related to interest and penalties. At December 31, 2009 and
    2008, our accruals for the payment of interest and penalties
    totaled $166.7 million and $177.6 million,
    respectively. Substantially all of the expense (benefit) and
    accruals relate to interest.

Note 13:  Retirement
    Benefits  

We use a measurement date of December 31 to develop the change
    in benefit obligation, change in plan assets, funded status, and
    amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets at
    December 31 for our defined benefit pension and retiree health
    benefit plans, which were as follows:

The unrecognized net actuarial loss and unrecognized prior
    service cost (benefit) have not yet been recognized in net
    periodic pension costs and are included in accumulated other
    comprehensive loss at December 31, 2009.

In 2010, we expect to recognize from accumulated other
    comprehensive loss as components of net periodic benefit cost,
    $176.4 million of unrecognized net actuarial loss and
    $6.4 million of unrecognized prior service cost related to
    our defined benefit pension plans, and $86.5 million of
    unrecognized net actuarial loss and $37.2 million of
    unrecognized prior service benefit related to our retiree health
    benefit plans. We do not expect any plan assets to be returned
    to us in 2010.

67   

The following represents our weighted-average assumptions as of
    December 31:

In evaluating the expected return on plan assets, we have
    considered our historical assumptions compared with actual
    results, an analysis of current market conditions, our current
    and expected asset allocations, and the views of leading
    financial advisers and economists for future asset class
    returns. Our plan assets in our U.S. defined benefit
    pension and retiree health plans comprise approximately
    83 percent of our worldwide benefit plan assets. Including
    the investment losses due to overall market conditions in 2001,
    2002, and 2008, our
     20-year 
    annualized rate of return on our U.S. defined benefit
    pension plans and retiree health benefit plan was approximately
    8.3 percent as of December 31, 2009. Health-care-cost
    trend rates are assumed to increase at an annual rate of
    8.0 percent in 2010, decreasing by approximately
    0.3 percent per year to an ultimate rate of
    5.3 percent by 2018.

The following benefit payments, which reflect expected future
    service, as appropriate, are expected to be paid as follows:

The total accumulated benefit obligation for our defined benefit
    pension plans was $6.67 billion and $5.64 billion at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The projected
    benefit obligation and fair value of the plan assets for the
    defined benefit pension plans with projected benefit obligations
    in excess of plan assets were $7.55 billion and
    $6.01 billion, respectively, as of December 31, 2009,
    and $6.35 billion and $4.80 billion, respectively, as
    of December 31, 2008. The accumulated benefit obligation
    and fair value of the plan assets for the defined benefit
    pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of
    plan assets were $1.01 billion and $107.4 million,
    respectively, as of December 31, 2009, and
    $4.98 billion and $4.06 billion, respectively, as of
    December 31, 2008.

Net pension and retiree health benefit expense included the
    following components:

If the health-care-cost trend rates were to be increased by one
    percentage point each future year, the December 31, 2009,
    accumulated postretirement benefit obligation would increase by
    $167.5 million (8.3 percent) and the aggregate of the
    service cost and interest cost components of the 2009 annual
    expense would increase by $18.9 million
    (10.9 percent). A one percentage point decrease in these
    rates

68   

would decrease the December 31, 2009, accumulated
    postretirement benefit obligation by $153.0 million
    (7.6 percent) and the aggregate of the 2009 service cost
    and interest cost by $15.8 million (9.1 percent).

The following represents the amounts recognized in other
    comprehensive income (loss) in 2009:

Defined Benefit 

Retiree Health 

Pension Plans 

Benefit Plans 

Actuarial loss arising during period

$

371.0

$

1.0

Plan amendments during period

(8.4

)

Amortization of prior service cost (benefit) included in net
    income

(8.0

)

36.0

Amortization of net actuarial loss included in net income

(84.5

)

(71.8

)

Foreign currency exchange rate changes

43.4

1.6

Total other comprehensive loss (gain) during period

$

321.9

$

(41.6

)

We have defined contribution savings plans that cover our
    eligible employees worldwide. The purpose of these defined
    contribution plans is generally to provide additional financial
    security during retirement by providing employees with an
    incentive to save. Our contributions to the plan are based on
    employee contributions and the level of our match. Expenses
    under the plans totaled $127.6 million,
    $114.1 million, and $112.3 million for the years 2009,
    2008, and 2007, respectively.

We provide certain other postemployment benefits primarily
    related to disability benefits and accrue for the related cost
    over the service lives of employees. Expenses associated with
    these benefit plans in 2009, 2008, and 2007 were not significant.

Benefit Plan
    Investments  

Our benefit plan investment policies are set with specific
    consideration of return and risk requirements in relationship to
    the respective liabilities. U.S. plans represent
    83 percent of our global investments. Given the long term
    nature of our U.S. liabilities, the U.S. plans have
    the flexibility to manage an above average degree of risk in the
    asset portfolios. At the investment policy level, there are no
    specifically prohibited investments. However, within individual
    investment manager mandates, restrictions and limitations are
    contractually set to align with our investment objectives,
    ensure risk control, and limit concentrations.

We manage our portfolio to minimize any concentration of risk by
    allocating funds within asset categories. In addition, within a
    category we use different managers with various management
    objectives to eliminate any significant concentration of risk.

Our global benefit plans may enter into contractual arrangements
    (derivatives) to implement the local investment policy or manage
    particular portfolio risks. Derivatives are principally used to
    increase or decrease exposure to a particular public equity,
    fixed income, commodity or currency market more rapidly or less
    expensively than could be accomplished through the use of the
    cash markets. The plans utilize both exchange traded and
     over-the-counter 
    instruments. The maximum exposure to either a market or
    counterparty credit loss is limited to the carrying value of the
    receivable, and is managed within contractual limits. We expect
    all of our counterparties to meet their obligations. The gross
    values of these derivative receivables and payables are not
    material to the global asset portfolio, and their values are
    reflected within the tables below.

The U.S. defined benefit pension and retiree health benefit
    plan allocation strategy is currently comprised of approximately
    88 percent growth investments and 12 percent fixed
    income investments. The growth investment allocation encompasses
    U.S. and international public equity securities, hedge
    funds, and private equity-like investments. These portfolio
    allocations are intended to reduce overall risk by providing
    diversification, while seeking moderate to high returns over the
    long term.

Public equity securities are well diversified and invested in
    U.S. and international
     small-to-large 
    companies across various asset managers and styles. The
    remaining portion of the growth portfolio is invested in private
    alternative investments.

Hedge funds are privately owned institutional investment funds
    that generally have moderate liquidity. Hedge funds seek
    specified levels of absolute return regardless of overall market
    conditions, and generally have low correlations to public equity
    and debt markets. Hedge funds often invest substantially in
    financial market instruments (stocks, bonds, commodities,
    currencies, derivatives, etc.) using a very broad range of
    trading activities to manage portfolio risks. Hedge fund
    strategies focus primarily on security selection and seek to be
    neutral with respect to market moves. Common groupings of hedge
    fund strategies include relative value, tactical, and event
    driven. Relative value strategies include arbitrage, when the
    same asset can simultaneously be bought and sold at different
    prices, achieving an immediate profit. Tactical strategies often
    take long and short positions to reduce or eliminate overall
    market risks while seeking a particular investment opportunity.
    Event strategy opportunities can evolve from specific

69   

company announcements such as mergers and acquisitions, and
    typically have little correlation to overall market directional
    movements. Our hedge fund investments are made through limited
    partnership interests primarily in fund of funds structures to
    ensure diversification across many strategies and many
    individual managers.

Private equity-like investment funds typically have low
    liquidity and are made through long-term partnerships or joint
    ventures that invest in pools of capital invested in primarily
    non-publicly traded entities. Underlying investments include
    venture capital (early stage investing), buyout, and special
    situation investing. Private equity management firms typically
    acquire and then reorganize private companies to create
    increased long term value. Private equity-like funds usually
    have a limited life of approximately
     10-15 years, 
    and require a minimum investment commitment from their limited
    partners. Our private investments are made both directly into
    funds and through fund of funds structures to ensure broad
    diversification of management styles and assets across the
    portfolio.

Fixed income investments are primarily made in investment grade
    fixed income securities in U.S. Treasuries and Agencies,
    investment grade corporates, mortgage-backed securities and
    commercial mortgage-backed obligations.

Other assets include cash and cash equivalents and
     mark-to-market 
    value of derivatives.

The cash value of the trust-owned insurance contract is invested
    in investment grade publicly traded equity and fixed income
    securities.

The fair values of our defined benefit pension plan and retiree
    health plan assets as of December 31, 2009 by asset
    category are as follows:

We determine fair values based on a market approach using quoted
    market values, significant other observable inputs for identical
    or comparable assets or liabilities, or discounted cash flow
    analyses.

70   

The activity in the Level 3 investments during 2009 was as
    follows:

In 2010, we expect to contribute approximately $100 million
    to our defined benefit pension plans to satisfy minimum funding
    requirements for the year. In addition, we expect to contribute
    approximately $300 million of additional discretionary
    funding in 2010 to our global defined benefit pension and post
    retirement health benefit plans.

Note 14:  Contingencies  

We are a party to various legal actions, government
    investigations, and environmental proceedings. The most
    significant of these are described below. While it is not
    possible to determine the outcome of these matters, we believe
    that, except as specifically noted below, the resolution of all
    such matters will not have a material adverse effect on our
    consolidated financial position or liquidity, but could possibly
    be material to our consolidated results of operations in any one
    accounting period.

Patent
    Litigation  

We are engaged in the following patent litigation matters
    brought pursuant to procedures set out in the Hatch-Waxman Act
    (the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of
    1984):

Cymbalta:  Sixteen generic drug manufacturers have
    submitted Abbreviated New Drug Applications (ANDAs) seeking
    permission to market generic versions of Cymbalta prior to the
    expiration of our relevant U.S. patents (the earliest of
    which expires in 2013). Of these challengers, all allege
    non-infringement of the patent claims directed to the commercial
    formulation, and nine allege invalidity of the patent claims
    directed to the active ingredient duloxetine. Of the nine
    challengers to the compound patent claims, one further alleges
    invalidity of the claims directed to the use of Cymbalta for
    treating fibromyalgia, and one alleges the patent having claims
    directed to the active ingredient is unenforceable. In November
    2008 we filed lawsuits in U.S. District Court for the
    Southern District of Indiana against Actavis Elizabeth LLC;
    Aurobindo Pharma Ltd.; Cobalt Laboratories, Inc.; Impax
    Laboratories, Inc.; Lupin Limited; Sandoz Inc.; and Wockhardt
    Limited, seeking rulings that the patents are valid, infringed,
    and enforceable. We filed similar lawsuits in the same court
    against Sun Pharma Global, Inc. in December 2008 and against
    Anchen Pharmaceuticals, Inc. in August 2009. The cases have been
    consolidated and actions against all but Wockhardt Limited have
    been stayed pursuant to stipulations by the defendants to be
    bound by the outcome of the litigation through appeal.

Gemzar:  Mayne Pharma (USA) Inc., now Hospira, Inc.
    (Hospira); Fresenius Kabi Oncology Plc (Fresenius); Sicor
    Pharmaceuticals, Inc., now Teva Parenteral Medicines, Inc.
    (Teva); and Sun Pharmaceutical Industries Inc. (Sun) each
    submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market generic versions
    of Gemzar prior to the expiration of our relevant
    U.S. patents (compound patent expiring in

71   

2010 and
     method-of-use 
    patent expiring in 2013), and alleging that these patents are
    invalid. Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz) and APP Pharmaceuticals, LLC (APP)
    have similarly challenged our
     method-of-use 
    patent. We filed lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for
    the Southern District of Indiana against Teva (February 2006),
    Hospira (October 2006 and January 2008), Sandoz (October 2009),
    APP (December 2009), and Fresenius (February 2010), seeking
    rulings that our patents are valid and are being infringed.
    Sandoz withdrew its ANDA and the suit against it was dismissed
    in February 2010. The trial against Teva was held in September
    2009 and we are waiting for a ruling. Teva s ANDAs have
    been approved by the FDA; however, Teva must provide
    90 days notice prior to marketing generic Gemzar to allow
    time for us to seek a preliminary injunction. Both suits against
    Hospira have been administratively closed, and the parties have
    agreed to be bound by the results of the Teva suit. In November
    2007, Sun filed a declaratory judgment action in the United
    States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan,
    seeking rulings that our
     method-of-use 
    and compound patents are invalid or unenforceable, or would not
    be infringed by the sale of Sun s generic product. In
    August 2009, the District Court granted a motion by Sun for
    partial summary judgment, invalidating our
     method-of-use 
    patent. We have appealed this decision. This ruling has no
    bearing on the compound patent. The trial originally scheduled
    for December 2009 has been postponed while the court considers
    Sun s second summary judgment motion, related to the
    validity of our compound patent. Sun and APP have received
    tentative approval for their products from the FDA, but are
    prohibited from entering the market by
     30-month 
    stays, which expire in June 2010 for Sun and May 2012 for APP.

Alimta:  Teva Parenteral Medicines, Inc. (Teva), APP,
    and Barr Laboratories, Inc. (Barr) each submitted ANDAs seeking
    approval to market generic versions of Alimta prior to the
    expiration of the relevant U.S. patent (licensed from the
    Trustees of Princeton University and expiring in 2016), and
    alleging the patent is invalid. We, along with Princeton, filed
    lawsuits in the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Delaware against Teva, APP, and Barr seeking rulings that the
    compound patent is valid and infringed. Trial is scheduled for
    November 2010 against Teva and APP.

Evista:  In 2006, Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc.
    (Teva) submitted an ANDA seeking permission to market a generic
    version of Evista prior to the expiration of our relevant
    U.S. patents (expiring in
     2012-2017) 
    and alleging that these patents are invalid, not enforceable, or
    not infringed. In June 2006, we filed a lawsuit against Teva in
    the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of
    Indiana, seeking a ruling that these patents are valid,
    enforceable, and being infringed by Teva. The trial against Teva
    was completed in March 2009. In September 2009, the court upheld
    our
     method-of-use 
    patents (the last expires in 2014). Teva has appealed that
    ruling. In addition, the court held that our particle-size
    patent (expiring 2017) is invalid. We have appealed that
    ruling.

Strattera:  Actavis Elizabeth LLC (Actavis), Apotex
    Inc. (Apotex), Aurobindo Pharma Ltd. (Aurobindo), Mylan
    Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Mylan), Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz), Sun
    Pharmaceutical Industries Limited (Sun), and Teva
    Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva) each submitted an ANDA seeking
    permission to market generic versions of Strattera prior to the
    expiration of our relevant U.S. patent (expiring in 2017),
    and alleging that this patent is invalid. In 2007, we brought a
    lawsuit against Actavis, Apotex, Aurobindo, Mylan, Sandoz, Sun,
    and Teva in the United States District Court for the District of
    New Jersey. The court has ruled on all pending summary judgment
    motions, and granted our infringement motion. The remaining
    invalidity defenses will be decided at trial, which could take
    place as early as the third quarter of 2010. Several companies
    have received tentative approval to market generic atomoxetine,
    but are prohibited from entering the market by a
     30-month 
    stay which expires in November 2010.

We believe each of these Hatch-Waxman challenges is without
    merit and expect to prevail in this litigation. However, it is
    not possible to determine the outcome of this litigation, and
    accordingly, we can provide no assurance that we will prevail.
    An unfavorable outcome in any of these cases could have a
    material adverse impact on our future consolidated results of
    operations, liquidity, and financial position.

We have received challenges to Zyprexa patents in a number of
    countries outside the U.S.:

In Canada, several generic pharmaceutical manufacturers have
    challenged the validity of our Zyprexa patent (expiring in
    2011). In April 2007, the Canadian Federal Court ruled against
    the first challenger, Apotex Inc. (Apotex), and that ruling was
    affirmed on appeal in February 2008. In June 2007, the Canadian
    Federal Court held that an invalidity allegation of a second
    challenger, Novopharm Ltd. (Novopharm), was justified and denied
    our request that Novopharm be prohibited from receiving
    marketing approval for generic olanzapine in Canada. Novopharm
    began selling generic olanzapine in Canada in the third quarter
    of 2007. In September 2009, the Canadian Federal Court ruled
    against us in the Novapharm suit, finding our patent invalid. We
    have appealed this decision. If the decision is upheld, we could
    face liability for damages related to delays in the launch of
    generic olanzapine products; however, we have concluded at this
    time that the damages are not probable or estimable.

In Germany, the German Federal Supreme Court upheld the validity
    of our Zyprexa patent (expiring in 2011) in December 2008,
    reversing an earlier decision of the Federal Patent Court.
    Following the

72   

decision of the Supreme Court, the generic companies who
    launched generic olanzapine based on the earlier decision either
    agreed to withdraw from the market or were subject to
    injunction. We are pursuing these companies for damages arising
    from infringement.

We have received challenges in a number of other countries,
    including Spain, the United Kingdom (U.K.), and several smaller
    European countries. In Spain, we have been successful at both
    the trial and appellate court levels in defeating the generic
    manufacturers  challenges, but additional actions are now
    pending. In the U.K., the generic pharmaceutical manufacturer
    Dr. Reddy s Laboratories (UK) Limited
    (Dr. Reddy s) has challenged the validity of our
    Zyprexa patent (expiring in 2011). In October 2008, the Patents
    Court in the High Court, London ruled that our patent was valid.
    Dr. Reddy s appealed this decision. The U.K. Court of
    Appeal affirmed the validity of the patent in December 2009.
    Dr. Reddy s did not seek further appeal to the U.K.
    Supreme Court, therefore the U.K. proceedings are concluded.

We are vigorously contesting the various legal challenges to our
    Zyprexa patents on a
     country-by-country 
    basis. We cannot determine the outcome of this litigation. The
    availability of generic olanzapine in additional markets could
    have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of
    operations.

Xigris and Evista: In June 2002, Ariad Pharmaceuticals,
    Inc. (Ariad), the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the
    Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, and the President
    and Fellows of Harvard College in the U.S. District Court
    for the District of Massachusetts sued us, alleging that sales
    of two of our products, Xigris and Evista, were inducing the
    infringement of a patent related to the discovery of a natural
    cell signaling phenomenon in the human body, and seeking
    royalties on past and future sales of these products. Following
    jury and bench trials on separate issues, the U.S. District
    Court of Massachusetts entered final judgment in September 2007
    that Ariad s claims were valid, infringed, and enforceable,
    and finding damages in the amount of $65 million plus a
    2.3 percent royalty on net U.S. sales of Xigris and
    Evista since the time of the jury decision. However, the Court
    deferred the requirement to pay any damages until after all
    rights to appeal are exhausted. In April 2009, the Court of
    Appeals for the Federal Circuit overturned the District Court
    judgment, concluding that Ariad s asserted patent claims
    are invalid. In August 2009, the Court of Appeals agreed to
    review this decision en banc, thereby vacating the Court of
    Appeals decision. The en banc hearing occurred in December 2009
    and we are awaiting a decision. Nevertheless, we believe that
    these allegations are without legal merit, that we will
    ultimately prevail on these issues, and therefore that the
    likelihood of any monetary damages is remote.

Zyprexa
    Litigation  

We have been named as a defendant in a large number of Zyprexa
    product liability lawsuits in the U.S. and have been
    notified of many other claims of individuals who have not filed
    suit. The lawsuits and unfiled claims (together the
     claims ) allege a variety of injuries from the use of
    Zyprexa, with the majority alleging that the product caused or
    contributed to diabetes or high blood-glucose levels. The claims
    seek substantial compensatory and punitive damages and typically
    accuse us of inadequately testing for and warning about side
    effects of Zyprexa. Many of the claims also allege that we
    improperly promoted the drug. Almost all of the federal lawsuits
    are part of a Multi-District Litigation (MDL) proceeding
    before The Honorable Jack Weinstein in the Federal District
    Court for the Eastern District of New York (MDL No. 1596).

Since June 2005, we have entered into agreements with various
    claimants  attorneys involved in U.S. Zyprexa product
    liability litigation to settle a substantial majority of the
    claims. The agreements cover a total of approximately 32,670
    claimants, including a large number of previously filed lawsuits
    and other asserted claims. The two primary settlements were as
    follows:

We are prepared to continue our vigorous defense of Zyprexa in
    all remaining claims. The U.S. Zyprexa product liability
    claims not subject to these agreements include approximately 170
    lawsuits in the U.S. covering approximately 260 plaintiffs,
    of which about 140 cases covering about 150 plaintiffs are part
    of the MDL. The MDL cases have been scheduled for trial in
    groups, and no specific trial dates for trial groups have been
    assigned. We also have trials scheduled in Texas state court in
    May and August 2010 and in Ohio in August 2010.

In January 2009, we reached resolution with the Office of the
    U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
    (EDPA), and the State Medicaid Fraud Control Units of
    36 states and the District of Columbia, of an investigation
    related to our U.S. marketing and promotional practices
    with respect to Zyprexa. As part of the resolution, we pled
    guilty to one misdemeanor violation of the Food, Drug, and
    Cosmetic Act for the off-label promotion of Zyprexa in elderly
    populations as treatment for dementia, including
    Alzheimer s dementia, between September 1999 and March
    2001. We recorded a charge of $1.42 billion for this matter
    in the third quarter of 2008. In 2009, we paid substantially all
    of this amount, as required

73   

by the settlement agreements. As part of the settlement, we have
    entered into a corporate integrity agreement with the Office of
    Inspector General (OIG) of the U.S. Department of Health
    and Human Services (HHS), which requires us to maintain our
    compliance program and to undertake a set of defined corporate
    integrity obligations for five years. The agreement also
    provides for an independent third-party review organization to
    assess and report on the company s systems, processes,
    policies, procedures, and practices.

In October 2008, we reached a settlement with 32 states and
    the District of Columbia related to a multistate investigation
    brought under various state consumer protection laws. While
    there is no finding that we have violated any provision of the
    state laws under which the investigations were conducted, we
    accrued and paid $62.0 million and agreed to undertake
    certain commitments regarding Zyprexa for a period of six years,
    through consent decrees filed with the settling states.

We have been served with lawsuits filed by the states of Alaska,
    Arkansas, Connecticut, Idaho, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi,
    Montana, New Mexico, Pennsylvania, South Carolina, Utah, and
    West Virginia alleging that Zyprexa caused or contributed to
    diabetes or high blood-glucose levels, and that we improperly
    promoted the drug. These suits seek to recover the costs paid
    for Zyprexa through Medicaid and other drug-benefit programs, as
    well as the costs alleged to have been incurred and that will be
    incurred by the states to treat Zyprexa-related illnesses. The
    Connecticut, Idaho, Louisiana, Minnesota, Mississippi, Montana,
    New Mexico, and West Virginia cases are part of the MDL
    proceedings in the EDNY. The Alaska case was settled in March
    2008 for a payment of $15.0 million, plus terms designed to
    ensure, subject to certain limitations and conditions, that
    Alaska is treated as favorably as certain other states that may
    settle with us in the future over similar claims. We are in
    advanced discussions with the attorneys general for several of
    these states, seeking to resolve their Zyprexa-related claims,
    and we have agreed to settlements with the states of Arkansas,
    Connecticut, Idaho, Mississippi, New Mexico, South Carolina,
    Utah, and West Virginia. In the second and third quarters of
    2009, we incurred pretax charges of $105.0 million and
    $125.0 million, respectively, reflecting the currently
    probable and estimable exposures in connection with these
    claims. The Pennsylvania case is set for trial in April 2010 in
    state court.

In 2005, two lawsuits were filed in the EDNY purporting to be
    nationwide class actions on behalf of all consumers and
    third-party payors, excluding governmental entities, which have
    made or will make payments for their members or insured patients
    being prescribed Zyprexa. These actions have now been
    consolidated into a single lawsuit, which is brought under
    certain state consumer protection statutes, the federal civil
    RICO statute, and common law theories, seeking a refund of the
    cost of Zyprexa, treble damages, punitive damages, and
    attorneys  fees. Two additional lawsuits were filed in the
    EDNY in 2006 on similar grounds. In September 2008, Judge
    Weinstein certified a class consisting of third-party payors,
    excluding governmental entities and individual consumers. We
    appealed the certification order, and Judge Weinstein s
    order denying our motion for summary judgment, in September
    2008. While the Second Circuit Court of Appeals heard oral
    arguments on the appeal in December 2009, no opinions have been
    rendered. In 2007, The Pennsylvania Employees Trust Fund
    brought claims in state court in Pennsylvania as insurer of
    Pennsylvania state employees, who were prescribed Zyprexa on
    similar grounds as described in the New York cases. As with the
    product liability suits, these lawsuits allege that we
    inadequately tested for and warned about side effects of Zyprexa
    and improperly promoted the drug. In December 2009, the court
    granted our summary judgment motion dismissing the case.
    Plaintiffs have appealed this decision.

In early 2005, we were served with four lawsuits seeking class
    action status in Canada on behalf of patients who took Zyprexa.
    One of these four lawsuits has been certified for residents of
    Quebec, and a second has been certified in Ontario and includes
    all Canadian residents except for residents of Quebec and
    British Columbia. The allegations in the Canadian actions are
    similar to those in the product liability litigation pending in
    the U.S. We are in advanced discussions to resolve all
    Zyprexa class-action litigation in Canada.

We cannot determine with certainty the additional number of
    lawsuits and claims that may be asserted. The ultimate
    resolution of Zyprexa product liability and related litigation
    could have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results
    of operations, liquidity, and financial position.

Other Product
    Liability Litigation  

We have been named as a defendant in numerous other product
    liability lawsuits involving primarily diethylstilbestrol (DES),
    thimerosal, and Byetta. The majority of these claims are covered
    by insurance, subject to deductibles and coverage limits.

Product Liability
    Insurance  

Because of the nature of pharmaceutical products, it is possible
    that we could become subject to large numbers of product
    liability and related claims for other products in the future.
    In the past several years, we have been unable to attain product
    liability insurance due to a very restrictive insurance market.
    Therefore, for substantially all of our currently marketed
    products, we have been and expect that we will

74   

continue to be completely self-insured for future product
    liability losses. In addition, there is no assurance that we
    will be able to fully collect from our insurance carriers in the
    future.

Environmental
    Matters  

Under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation,
    and Liability Act, commonly known as Superfund, we have been
    designated as one of several potentially responsible parties
    with respect to fewer than 10 sites. Under Superfund, each
    responsible party may be jointly and severally liable for the
    entire amount of the cleanup. We also continue remediation of
    certain of our own sites. We have accrued for estimated
    Superfund cleanup costs, remediation, and certain other
    environmental matters. This takes into account, as applicable,
    available information regarding site conditions, potential
    cleanup methods, estimated costs, and the extent to which other
    parties can be expected to contribute to payment of those costs.
    We have limited liability insurance coverage for certain
    environmental liabilities.

Note 15:  Other
    Comprehensive Income (Loss)  

The accumulated balances related to each component of other
    comprehensive income (loss) were as follows:

The amounts above are net of income taxes. The income taxes
    associated with the unrecognized net actuarial losses and prior
    service costs on our defined benefit pension and retiree health
    benefit plans (Note 13) were a benefit of
    $92.4 million for 2009. The income taxes associated with
    the unrealized gains (losses) on securities was an expense of
    $103.2 million for 2009. The income taxes related to the
    other components of comprehensive income (loss) were not
    significant, as income taxes were not provided for foreign
    currency translation.

The unrealized gains (losses) on securities is net of
    reclassification adjustments of net gains (losses) of
    $19.0 million, $(1.7) million, and $5.8 million,
    net of tax, in 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively, for net
    realized gains (losses) on sales of securities included in net
    income. The effective portion of cash flow hedges is net of
    reclassification adjustments of zero, $9.6 million, and
    $8.8 million, net of tax, in 2009, 2008, and 2007,
    respectively, for realized losses on foreign currency options
    and $6.7 million, $7.9 million, and
    $11.6 million, net of tax, in 2009, 2008, and 2007,
    respectively, for interest expense on interest rate swaps
    designated as cash flow hedges.

Generally, the assets and liabilities of foreign operations are
    translated into U.S. dollars using the current exchange
    rate. For those operations, changes in exchange rates generally
    do not affect cash flows; therefore, resulting translation
    adjustments are made in shareholders  equity rather than in
    income.

75   

Management s
    Reports  

Management s
    Report for Financial Statements Eli Lilly and Company and
    Subsidiaries  

Management of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries is
    responsible for the accuracy, integrity, and fair presentation
    of the financial statements. The statements have been prepared
    in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in
    the United States and include amounts based on judgments and
    estimates by management. In management s opinion, the
    consolidated financial statements present fairly our financial
    position, results of operations, and cash flows.

In addition to the system of internal accounting controls, we
    maintain a code of conduct (known as  The Red Book ) that
    applies to all employees worldwide, requiring proper overall
    business conduct, avoidance of conflicts of interest, compliance
    with laws, and confidentiality of proprietary information.
     The Red Book  is reviewed on a periodic basis with
    employees worldwide, and all employees are required to report
    suspected violations. A hotline number is published in  The
    Red Book  to enable employees to report suspected violations
    anonymously. Employees who report suspected violations are
    protected from discrimination or retaliation by the company. In
    addition to  The Red Book , the CEO, and all financial
    management must sign a financial code of ethics, which further
    reinforces their fiduciary responsibilities.

The consolidated financial statements have been audited by
    Ernst   Young LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm. Their responsibility is to examine our
    consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally
    accepted auditing standards of the Public Company Accounting
    Oversight Board (United States). Ernst   Young s
    opinion with respect to the fairness of the presentation of the
    statements is included in Item 8 of our annual report on
     Form 10-K. 
    Ernst   Young reports directly to the audit committee
    of the board of directors.

Our audit committee includes five nonemployee members of the
    board of directors, all of whom are independent from our
    company. The committee charter, which is available on our web
    site, outlines the members  roles and responsibilities and
    is consistent with enacted corporate reform laws and
    regulations. It is the audit committee s responsibility to
    appoint an independent registered public accounting firm subject
    to shareholder ratification, approve both audit and nonaudit
    services performed by the independent registered public
    accounting firm, and review the reports submitted by the firm.
    The audit committee meets several times during the year with
    management, the internal auditors, and the independent public
    accounting firm to discuss audit activities, internal controls,
    and financial reporting matters, including reviews of our
    externally published financial results. The internal auditors
    and the independent registered public accounting firm have full
    and free access to the committee.

We are dedicated to ensuring that we maintain the high standards
    of financial accounting and reporting that we have established.
    We are committed to providing financial information that is
    transparent, timely, complete, relevant, and accurate. Our
    culture demands integrity and an unyielding commitment to strong
    internal practices and policies. Finally, we have the highest
    confidence in our financial reporting, our underlying system of
    internal controls, and our people, who are objective in their
    responsibilities and operate under a code of conduct and the
    highest level of ethical standards.

Management s
    Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting Eli
    Lilly and Company and Subsidiaries  

Management of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries is
    responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
    control over financial reporting as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We have global
    financial policies that govern critical areas, including
    internal controls, financial accounting and reporting, fiduciary
    accountability, and safeguarding of corporate assets. Our
    internal accounting control systems are designed to provide
    reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded, that
    transactions are executed in accordance with management s
    authorization and are properly recorded, and that accounting
    records are adequate for preparation of financial statements and
    other financial information. A staff of internal auditors
    regularly monitors, on a worldwide basis, the adequacy and
    effectiveness of internal accounting controls. The general
    auditor reports directly to the audit committee of the board of
    directors.

We conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal
    control over financial reporting based on the framework in
     Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission. Based on our evaluation under this framework, we
    concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was
    effective as of December 31, 2009. However, because of its
    inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting
    may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of
    any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to
    the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes
    in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the
    policies or procedures may deteriorate.

The internal control over financial reporting has been assessed
    by Ernst   Young LLP. Their responsibility is to
    evaluate whether internal control over financial reporting was
    designed and operating effectively.

John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D. 

Derica W. Rice

Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer 

Executive Vice President, Global Services and Chief
    Financial Officer  

February 22, 2010

76   

Report
    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Eli Lilly and
    Company 

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries as of December 31,
    2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of
    operations, cash flows, and comprehensive income (loss) for each
    of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009.
    These financial statements are the responsibility of the
    Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
    opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries at
    December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the consolidated results of
    their operations and their cash flows for each of the three
    years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity
    with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Eli
    Lilly and Company and subsidiaries  internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on
    criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission and our report dated February 22, 2010
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Indianapolis, Indiana

February 22, 2010

77   

Report
    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Eli Lilly and
    Company 

We have audited Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries 
    internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in
    Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the
    Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
    (the COSO criteria). Eli Lilly and Company and
    subsidiaries  management is responsible for maintaining
    effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its
    assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting included in the accompanying
    Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial
    Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
    company s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries
    maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control
    over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on
    the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    2009 consolidated financial statements of Eli Lilly and Company
    and subsidiaries and our report dated February 22, 2010
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Indianapolis, Indiana

February 22, 2010

78   

Item 9.     

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.     

Controls
    and Procedures   

Disclosure
    Controls and Procedures  

Under applicable Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
    regulations, management of a reporting company, with the
    participation of the principal executive officer and principal
    financial officer, must periodically evaluate the company s
     disclosure controls and procedures,  which are
    defined generally as controls and other procedures of a
    reporting company designed to ensure that information required
    to be disclosed by the reporting company in its periodic reports
    filed with the SEC (such as this
     Form 10-K) 
    is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported on a timely
    basis.

Our management, with the participation of John C.
    Lechleiter, Ph.D., chairman, president, and chief executive
    officer, and Derica W. Rice, executive vice president, global
    services and chief financial officer, evaluated our disclosure
    controls and procedures as of December 31, 2009, and
    concluded that they are effective.

Internal
    Control over Financial Reporting  

Dr. Lechleiter and Mr. Rice provided a report on
    behalf of management on our internal control over financial
    reporting, in which management concluded that the company s
    internal control over financial reporting is effective at
    December 31, 2009. In addition, Ernst   Young
    LLP, the company s independent registered public accounting
    firm, provided an attestation report on the company s
    internal control over financial reporting. You can find the full
    text of management s report and Ernst  
    Young s attestation report in Item 8, and both reports
    are incorporated by reference in this Item.

Changes
    in Internal Controls  

During the fourth quarter of 2009, there were no changes in our
    internal control over financial reporting that materially
    affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our
    internal control over financial reporting.

Item 9B.     

Other
    Information   

Not applicable.

Part III  

Item 10.     

Directors,
    Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance   

Directors
    and Executive Officers  

Information relating to our Board of Directors is found in our
    Proxy Statement to be dated on or about March 8, 2010 (the
     Proxy Statement ) under  Board of
    Directors  and is incorporated in this report by reference.

Information relating to our executive officers is found at
    Item 1 of this
     Form 10-K 
    under  Executive Officers of the Company. 

Code
    of Ethics  

We have adopted a code of ethics that complies with the
    applicable SEC and New York Stock Exchange requirements. The
    code is set forth in:

The Red Book,  a comprehensive code of ethical and legal
    business conduct applicable to all employees worldwide and to
    our Board of Directors; and

Code of Ethical Conduct for Lilly Financial Management , a
    supplemental code for our chief executive officer and all
    members of financial management that focuses on accounting,
    financial reporting, internal controls, and financial
    stewardship.

Both documents are online on our web site at
     http://investor.lilly.com/about/compliance/conduct. 
    In the event of any amendments to, or waivers from, a provision
    of the code affecting the chief executive officer, chief
    financial officer, chief accounting officer, controller, or
    persons performing similar functions, we intend to post on the
    above web site within four business days after the event a
    description of the amendment or waiver as required under
    applicable SEC rules. We will maintain that information on our

79   

web site for at least 12 months. Paper copies of these
    documents are available free of charge upon request to the
    company s secretary at the address on the front of this
     Form 10-K. 

Corporate
    Governance  

In our proxy statements, we describe the procedures by which
    shareholders can recommend nominees to our board of directors.
    There have been no changes in those procedures since they were
    last published in our proxy statement of March 9, 2009.

The board has appointed an audit committee consisting entirely
    of independent directors in accordance with applicable SEC and
    New York Stock Exchange rules for audit committees. The members
    of the committee are Michael L. Eskew (chair), Martin S.
    Feldstein, R. David Hoover, Douglas R. Oberhelman, and
    Kathi P. Seifert. The board has determined that
    Messrs. Eskew, Hoover, and Oberhelman are audit committee
    financial experts as defined in the SEC rules.

Item 11.     

Executive
    Compensation   

Information on director compensation, executive compensation,
    and compensation committee matters can be found in the Proxy
    Statement under  Directors  Compensation ,
     Executive Compensation , and  Compensation
    Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation.  That
    information is incorporated in this report by reference.

Item 12.     

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  

Information relating to ownership of the Company s common
    stock by management and by persons known by the Company to be
    the beneficial owners of more than five percent of the
    outstanding shares of common stock is found in the Proxy
    Statement under  Ownership of Company Stock.  That
    information is incorporated in this report by reference.

Securities
    Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation
    Plans  

The following table presents information as of December 31,
    2009, about our compensation plans under which shares of Lilly
    stock have been authorized for issuance.

1 

Represents shares in the Lilly GlobalShares Stock Plan, which
    permitted the company to grant stock options to non-management
    employees worldwide. The plan was administered by the senior
    vice president responsible for human resources. The stock
    options are nonqualified for U.S. tax purposes. The option price
    cannot be less than the fair market value at the time of grant.
    The options shall not exceed 11 years in duration and shall
    be subject to vesting schedules established by the plan
    administrator. There are provisions for early vesting and early
    termination of the options in the event of retirement,
    disability, and death. In the event of stock splits or other
    recapitalizations, the administrator may adjust the number of
    shares available for grant, the number of shares subject to
    outstanding grants, and the exercise price of outstanding grants.

2 

The Lilly GlobalShares Stock Plan was terminated in February
    2009. No more grants can be made under this plan.

80   

Item 13.     

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

Related
    Person Transactions  

Information relating to the board s policies and procedures
    for approval of related person transactions can be found in the
    Proxy Statement under  Highlights of the Company s
    Corporate Governance Guidelines Review and Approval of
    Transactions with Related Persons.  That information is
    incorporated in this report by reference.

Director
    Independence  

Information relating to director independence can be found in
    the Proxy Statement under  Highlights of the Company s
    Corporate Governance Guidelines Independence
    Determinations  and is incorporated in this report by
    reference.

Item 14.     

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services   

Information related to the fees and services of our principal
    independent accountants, Ernst   Young LLP, can be
    found in the Proxy Statement under  Services Performed by
    the Independent Auditor  and  Independent Auditor
    Fees.  That information is incorporated in this report by
    reference.

Item 15     

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules   

(a)1.  Financial
    Statements  

The following consolidated financial statements of the Company
    and its subsidiaries are found at Item 8:

(a)2.  Financial
    Statement Schedules  

The consolidated financial statement schedules of the Company
    and its subsidiaries have been omitted because they are not
    required, are inapplicable, or are adequately explained in the
    financial statements.

Financial statements of interests of 50 percent or less,
    which are accounted for by the equity method, have been omitted
    because they do not, considered in the aggregate as a single
    subsidiary, constitute a significant subsidiary.

(a)3.  Exhibits  

2

Agreement and Plan of Merger dated October 6, 2008, among
    Eli Lilly and Company, Alaska Acquisition Corporation and
    ImClone Systems Incorporated

3

.1

Amended Articles of Incorporation

3

.2

By-laws, as amended

4

.1

Form of Indenture with respect to Debt Securities dated as of
    February 1, 1991, between Eli Lilly and Company and
    Citibank, N.A., as Trustee

4

.2

Agreement dated September 13, 2007 appointing Deutsche Bank
    Trust Company Americas as Successor Trustee under the
    Indenture listed above

4

.3

Form of Standard Multiple-Series Indenture Provisions
    dated, and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on,
    February 1, 1991

4

.4

Form of Indenture dated March 10, 1998, among The Lilly
    Savings Plan Master Trust Fund C, as issuer; Eli Lilly
    and Company, as guarantor; and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
    Trustee, relating to ESOP Amortizing Debentures due
    2017 1 

4

.5

Form of Fiscal Agency Agreement dated May 30, 2001, between
    Eli Lilly and Company and Citibank, N.A., Fiscal Agent, relating
    to Resetable Floating Rate Debt Security due
    2037 1 

81   

(a)3.  Exhibits  

4

.6

Form of Resetable Floating Rate Debt Security due
    2037 1 

10

.1

1998 Lilly Stock Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.2

2002 Lilly Stock Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.3

Form of two-year Performance Award under the 2002 Lilly Stock
    Plan 2 

10

.4

Form of Shareholder Value Award under the 2002 Lilly Stock
    Plan 2 

10

.5

Form of Restricted Stock Unit under the 2002 Lilly Stock
    Plan 2 

10

.6

The Lilly Deferred Compensation Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.7

The Lilly Directors  Deferral Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.8

The Eli Lilly and Company Bonus Plan, as
    amended 2 

10

.9

2007 Change in Control Severance Pay Plan for Select Employees,
    as amended effective January 1,
    2009 2 

10

.10

2007 Change in Control Severance Pay Plan for Select Employees,
    as amended effective October 20,
    2010 2 

10

.11

Letter agreement dated September 15, 2004 between the
    company and Steven M. Paul, M.D. concerning retirement
    benefits 2 

10

.12

Letter agreement dated November 11, 2009 between the
    company and Steven M. Paul, M.D. concerning retirement
    benefits 2 

10

.13

Arrangement regarding retirement benefits for Robert A.
    Armitage 2 

10

.14

Guilty Plea Agreement in  The United States District Court for
    the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, United States of
    America v. Eli Lilly and Company 

10

.15

Settlement Agreement among the company and the United States of
    America, acting through the United States Department of Justice,
    Civil Division, and the United States Attorney s Office of
    the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, the Office of the
    Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human
    Services, TRICARE Management Activity, and the United States
    Office of Personnel Management, and certain individual relators

10

.16

Corporate Integrity Agreement between the company and the Office
    of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human
    Services

12

Statement re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings (Loss) to Fixed
    Charges

21

List of Subsidiaries

23

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

31

.1

Rule 13a-14(a) 
    Certification of John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D., Chairman of the
    Board, President and Chief Executive Officer

31

.2

Rule 13a-14(a) 
    Certification of Derica W. Rice, Executive Vice President,
    Global Services and Chief Financial Officer

32

Section 1350 Certification

101

Interactive Data File

1 

This exhibit is not filed with this report. Copies will be
    furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.

2 

Indicates management contract or compensatory plan.

Signatures  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned
    thereunto duly authorized.

Eli
    Lilly and Company  

By   

/s/  John
    C.
    Lechleiter   

John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D.,
    Chairman of the Board,  

President, and Chief Executive
    Officer  

February 22, 2010

82   

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below on February 22,
    2010 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in
    the capacities indicated.

Signature 

Title 

/s/  John
    C. Lechleiter, Ph.D. 

JOHN
    C. LECHLEITER, Ph.D. 

Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer,
    and a Director (principal executive officer)

/s/  Derica
    W. Rice

DERICA
    W. RICE

Executive Vice President, Global Services and Chief Financial
    Officer (principal financial officer)

/s/  Arnold
    C. Hanish

ARNOLD
    C. HANISH

Vice President, Finance and Chief Accounting Officer (principal
    accounting officer)

/s/  Ralph
    Alvarez

RALPH
    ALVAREZ

Director

/s/  Sir
    Winfried Bischoff

SIR
    WINFRIED BISCHOFF

Director

/s/  Michael
    L. Eskew

MICHAEL
    L. ESKEW

Director

/s/  Martin
    S. Feldstein, Ph.D.

MARTIN
    S. FELDSTEIN, Ph.D.

Director

/s/  J.
    Erik Fyrwald

J.
    ERIK FYRWALD

Director

/s/  Alfred
    G. Gilman, M.D., Ph.D.

ALFRED
    G. GILMAN, M.D., Ph.D.

Director

/s/  R.
    David Hoover

R.
    DAVID HOOVER

Director

/s/  Karen
    N. Horn, Ph.D.

KAREN
    N. HORN, Ph.D.

Director

/s/  Ellen
    R. Marram

ELLEN
    R. MARRAM

Director

/s/  Douglas
    R. Oberhelman

DOUGLAS
    R. OBERHELMAN

Director

/s/  Franklyn
    G. Prendergast, M.D., Ph.D.

FRANKLYN
    G. PRENDERGAST, M.D., Ph.D.

Director

/s/  Kathi
    P. Seifert

KATHI
    P. SEIFERT

Director

83   

Trademarks
    Used In This Report  

Trademarks or service marks owned by Eli Lilly and Company or
    its subsidiaries or affiliates, when first used in this report,
    appear with an initial capital and are followed by the symbol

or
      tm  ,

    as applicable. In subsequent uses of the marks in the report,
    the symbols are omitted.

Actos   

    is a trademark of Takeda Chemical Industries, Ltd.

Axid   

    is a trademark of Reliant Pharmaceuticals, LLC

Byetta   

    is a trademark of Amylin Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Vancocin   

    is a trademark of ViroPharma Incorporated

84   

Index
    to Exhibits

The following documents are filed as part of this report:

Exhibit 

Location 

2

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of October 6, 2008,
    among Eli Lilly and Company, Alaska Acquisition Corporation and
    ImClone Systems Incorporated

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 2.1 to the Company s
    Report on Form 8-K filed October 10, 2008

3

.1

Amended Articles of Incorporation

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3.1 to the Company s
    Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008

3

.2

By-laws, as amended

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 3 to the Company s
    Report on Form 8-K filed July 14, 2009

4

.1

Form of Indenture with respect to Debt Securities dated as of
    February 1, 1991, between Eli Lilly and Company and
    Citibank, N.A., as Trustee

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 to the Company s
    Registration Statement on Form S-3, Amendment No. 1,
    Registration No.
     333-106478 

4

.2

Agreement dated September 13, 2007 appointing Deutsche Bank
    Trust Company Americas as Successor Trustee under the
    Indenture listed above

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the Company s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008

4

.3

Form of Standard Multiple-Series Indenture Provisions
    dated, and filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
    February 1, 1991

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.2 to the Company s
    Registration Statement on Form S-3, Amendment No. 1,
    Registration No. 333-106478

4

.4

Form of Indenture dated March 10, 1998, among The Lilly
    Savings Plan Master Trust Fund C, as issuer; Eli Lilly
    and Company, as guarantor; and The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
    Trustee, relating to ESOP Amortizing Debentures due 2017

*

4

.5

Form of Fiscal Agency Agreement dated May 30, 2001, between
    Eli Lilly and Company and Citibank, N.A., Fiscal Agent, relating
    to Resettable Floating Rate Debt Security due 2037

*

4

.6

Form of Resettable Floating Rate Debt Security due 2037

*

10

.1

1998 Lilly Stock Plan, as amended

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
    31, 2006

10

.2

2002 Lilly Stock Plan, as amended

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2008

10

.3

Form of two-year Performance Award under 2002 Lilly Stock Plan

Attached

10

.4

Form of Shareholder Value Award under 2002 Lilly Stock Plan

Attached

10

.5

Form of Restricted Stock Unit under 2002 Lilly Stock Plan

Attached

* Not filed with this report.
    Copies will be furnished to the Securities and Exchange
    Commission upon request.

Exhibit 

Location 

10

.6

The Lilly Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.3 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2008

10

.7

The Lilly Directors  Deferral Plan, as amended

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2008

10

.8

The Eli Lilly and Company Bonus Plan, as amended

Attached

10

.9

2007 Change in Control Severance Pay Plan for Select Employees,
    as amended effective January 1, 2009

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.4 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2008

10

.10

2007 Change in Control Severance Pay Plan for Select Employees,
    as amended effective October 20, 2010

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.5 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
    September 30, 2008

10

.11

Letter agreement
    dated September 15,
    2004 between the Company and Steven M. Paul, M.D.
    concerning retirement benefits

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.14 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
    31, 2004

10

.12

Letter agreement
    dated November 11,
    2009 between the Company and Steven M. Paul, M.D.
    concerning retirement benefits

Attached

10

.13

Arrangement regarding retirement benefits for Robert A. Armitage

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
    31, 2004

10

.14

Guilty Plea Agreement in  The United States District Court for
    the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, United States of
    America v. Eli Lilly and Company 

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.15 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
    31, 2008

10

.15

Settlement Agreement among the company and the United States of
    America, acting through the U. S. Department of Justice, Civil
    Division, and the U. S. Attorney s Office of the Eastern
    District of Pennsylvania, the Office of the Inspector General of
    the Department of Health and Human Services, TRICARE Management
    Activity, and the U. S. Office of Personnel Management, and
    certain individual relators

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.16 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
    31, 2008

10

.16

Corporate Integrity Agreement between the company and the Office
    of Inspector General of the Department of Health and Human
    Services

Incorporated by reference from Exhibit 10.17 to the
    Company s Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
    31, 2008

12

Statement re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings (Loss) to Fixed
    Charges

Attached

21

List of Subsidiaries

Attached

23

Consent of Registered Independent Public Accounting Firm

Attached

31

.1

Rule 13a-14(a) 
    Certification of John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D., Chairman of the
    Board, President and Chief Executive Officer

Attached

31

.2

Rule 13a-14(a) 
    Certification of Derica W. Rice, Executive Vice President, Global Services and Chief
    Financial Officer

Attached

32

Section 1350 Certification

Attached

101

Interactive Data File

Attached

<EX-10.3>
 2
 c55339kexv10w3.htm
 EX-10.3

exv10w3 

Exhibit 10.3

Eli Lilly and Company 
Performance Award 
(for Executive Officers)

This Performance Award has been granted for the period of January 1, 2010 through December 31,
2011 by Eli Lilly and Company, an Indiana corporation with its principal offices in Indianapolis,
Indiana ( Lilly  or the  Company ), to Grantee.

Eli Lilly and Company Performance Award

Table of Contents

A. Recitals

3 

B. Performance Award

3 

Section 1. Statement of Award Period

3 

Section 2. Number of Shares

3 

Section 3. Computation of Cumulative EPS

3 

Section 4. Determination and Announcement of Award

4 

Section 5. Committee Election to Pay Cash

4 

Section 6. Issuance or Transfer of Performance Shares and Payment of Cash Award

4 

Section 7. Restricted Stock Units

5 

Section 8. Consideration for Continued Employment Requirement

5 

Section 9. Adjustments for Certain Employment Status Changes

5 

Section 10. Compensation Recovery

6 

Section 11. Notices, Payments and Electronic Delivery and Participation

7 

Section 12. Waiver

7 

Section 13. Revocation or Modification

7 

Section 14. Withholding Tax

7 

Section 15. Section 409A Compliance

8 

Section 16. Non-Transfer of Performance Award

8 

Section 17. Severability and Section Headings

8 

Section 18. Determinations by Committee

9 

Section 19. Change in Control

9 

Section 20. Nature of 2002 Plan and Performance Award

9 

Section 21. Data Privacy

11 

Section 22. Effective Date

11 

Section 23. Governing Law

12 

Section 24. Language

12 

Section 25. Imposition of Other Requirements

12 

Page 2 

Eli Lilly and Company Performance Award

A. 
       
     Recitals 

Under the 2002 LILLY STOCK PLAN ( 2002 Plan ), the Compensation Committee ( Committee )
has determined the form of this Performance Award and selected the Grantee, an Eligible
Employee of the Company, to receive a Performance Award for the Award Period January 1, 2010,
through December 31, 2011. The applicable terms of the 2002 Plan are incorporated in this
Performance Award by reference, including the definitions of terms contained in the 2002 Plan. 

B. 
       
     Performance Award 

Lilly grants to the Grantee the right to acquire Lilly Stock by issuance or transfer to
the Grantee of the Performance Shares to which he or she is entitled under this Performance
Award upon the following
terms and conditions, including any special terms and conditions set forth in the appendix for
the Grantee s country of residence, if any, as provided in Section 25: 

Section 1. Statement of Award Period 

The Award Period shall begin January 1, 2010 and end December 31, 2011. 

Section 2. Number of Shares 

The target number of Performance Shares for the Award Period shall be the Performance
Share portion of the value as approved by the Grantee s supervisor, divided by the grant fair
value of $30.88 rounded to the nearest full share. Target shares are set at an EPS growth rate
of 8%. The actual cumulative EPS will be used to determine the actual number of shares awarded
at payout, subject to adjustment as provided below in this Section or in Section 9. Grantees
may view their
Performance Award by logging on to the Merrill Lynch website at
 http://benefits.ml.com  after
March 31 of each grant year. 

The number of Performance Shares for the Award Period and the cumulative EPS as described in
Section 3 below, shall be subject to adjustment in accordance with the provisions of Section
4(b) of the 2002 Plan for certain corporate recapitalizations and other events. A fractional
share resulting from such adjustment shall in the discretion of the Committee either be paid in
cash or rounded. 

Section 3. Computation of Cumulative EPS 

The cumulative EPS for the Award Period shall be computed in accordance with Section 18
and using the following procedures: 

a. 
       
     A determination of adjusted consolidated net income ascertained from the
Company s audited consolidated financial statements shall be made for each fiscal
year in the Award Period in accordance with accounting principles currently
applicable in the United States, adjusted to the extent deemed appropriate by the
Committee for any unusual items deemed significant by the Committee. 

b. 
       
     The number of shares of outstanding Lilly Stock used to compute consolidated
earnings per share shall be determined as of the end of each fiscal year in the
Award Period on a 

Page 3 

Eli Lilly and Company Performance Award

diluted basis or its equivalent in accordance with accounting principles currently
applicable in the United States. 

c. 
       
     To calculate consolidated earnings per share for each fiscal year in the
Award Period, the adjusted consolidated net income shall be divided by the number
of shares of outstanding Lilly Stock as computed in accordance with subsection (b)
above and the quotient rounded to the nearest cent. 

d. 
       
     To determine the cumulative EPS for the Award Period, the EPS amounts for
each fiscal year as determined above shall be added. 

Section 4. Determination and Announcement of Award 

After the cumulative EPS for the Award Period is computed, the cumulative EPS and the
resulting number of Performance Shares for Grantee (determined in accordance with Sections 2
and 9), together with the Committee s election between cash and shares of Lilly Stock under
Section 5, shall be communicated to Grantee. 

Section 5. Committee Election to Pay Cash 

At any time until the determination of cumulative EPS and the resulting number of
Performance Shares, the Committee may, if it so elects, determine to pay part or all of any
Performance Award in cash in lieu of issuing or transferring Performance Shares. The amount of
cash shall be based upon the fair market value of Lilly Stock on a valuation date to be
determined by the Committee. 

Section 6. Issuance or Transfer of Performance Shares and Payment of Cash Award 

Subject to the condition relating to withholding tax stated in Section 14, Lilly shall
issue or transfer to the Grantee any Performance Shares to be issued or transferred under
Section 4 and pay to the Grantee any cash determined to be payable under that section within a
sixty day period starting the day after the Award Period expiration (as stated in Section 1)
and ending on the sixtieth day after the Award Period expiration, but not later than December
31 of the year after the Award Period expires. Grantee shall have no rights as a shareholder
of Lilly with respect to the shares of Lilly Stock until the shares are issued or transferred
on the books of Lilly. 

Page 4 

Eli Lilly and Company Performance Award

Section 7. Restricted Stock Units 

Any shares issued or transferred under this grant shall be in the form of restricted stock
units that will be governed by the provisions of Section 10 of the 2002 Plan and the restricted
stock unit grant document to be provided to the Grantee. In the event Grantee is entitled to a
fractional restricted stock unit, the fraction may be paid in cash or rounded, in the
Committee s discretion. The Restriction Period shall be approximately one year from the date
of valuation, as specified in the restricted stock unit grant document. The restrictions shall
lapse upon the earliest of (a) the expiration of the Restriction Period if all conditions
related to the Restriction Period have been met; (b) the date of Grantee s death, disability or
separation from service (as defined in the restricted stock unit grant document to be provided
to the Grantee); or (c) a change in control as provided
under Section 12(a)(v) of the 2002 Plan, unless the Committee specifies in the restricted stock
unit grant document that Section 12 (a)(v) shall not apply. 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the status of the Grantee as an Eligible Employee, as defined
in the 2002 Plan, terminates before the issuance of the restricted stock units for any of the
reasons specified in Section 9(c), then Lilly shall issue or transfer to the Grantee shares of
Lilly stock or the cash equivalent, as described in Section 5 above, subject to the withholding
tax provisions in accordance with Section 14 below. The shares may be newly issued shares or
treasury shares, unless
otherwise required by local law. In the event Grantee is entitled to a fractional share, the
fraction may be paid in cash or rounded, in the Committee s discretion. 

Section 8. Consideration for Continued Employment Requirement 

If the status of the Grantee as an Eligible Employee, as defined in the 2002 Plan,
terminates before the end of the Award Period except as outlined in Section 9 (c), then all
rights of the Grantee under this Performance Award shall terminate with respect to the Award
Period. The Company shall incur no liability to Grantee under this Performance Award by
terminating Grantee s status as an Eligible Employee whether by action with respect to Grantee
individually, either with or without cause, or by dissolution or liquidation of Lilly or merger
or consolidation of Lilly with a corporation in which Lilly is not the surviving corporation,
or otherwise. 

Section 9. Adjustments for Certain Employment Status Changes 

The number of Performance Shares described in Section 2 is based on the assumption that
the Grantee is an employee in good standing throughout the entire Award Period. Unless
otherwise required by law, the number of Performance Shares shall be adjusted for changes in
employment status during the Award Period as follows: 

a. 
       
      Leaves of Absence  .  The number of Performance Shares shall be
reduced proportionally for any portion of the total days in the Award Period
during which the Grantee is on an approved unpaid leave of absence longer than
ninety (90) days. 

b. 
       
      Demotions and Disciplinary Actions  .  The Committee may, at its
discretion, reduce the number of Performance Shares, prorated according to time,
for any portion of the Award Period during which the Grantee has been (i) demoted
to a job classification below those considered by the Committee to be eligible for
Performance Awards, or (ii) subject to 

Page 5 

Eli Lilly and Company Performance Award

disciplinary action by the Company. In the
case of disciplinary action during the Award Period, the Committee may also, in
its discretion, withhold payment of this Performance Award entirely. 

c. 
       
      Retirement, death, disability or termination due to a plant closing or
reduction in workforce  .  In the event the Grantee s employment is terminated
due to retirement as a
retiree, death, disability, plant closing or reduction in workforce (as defined
below), the number of Performance Shares shall be reduced proportionally for the
portion of the total days during the Award Period in which the Grantee was not an
active employee. Any payment of Performance Shares that have been reduced by
operation of this Section 9.c. shall be paid following the Award Period expiration as
described in Section 6. A retiree is a person who is (i) a retired employee under
the Lilly Retirement Plan; (ii) a retired employee under the retirement plan or
program of a Lilly subsidiary; or (iii) a retired employee under a retirement program
specifically approved by the Committee. Plant closing means the closing of a plant
site or other corporate location that directly results in
termination of employment. Reduction in workforce means the elimination of a work
group, functional or business unit or other broadly applicable reduction in job
positions that directly results in termination of employment. The Committee will be
responsible for approving, in its discretion, what is classified as disability, a
plant closing, or a reduction in workforce. 

Section 10. Compensation Recovery 

The Company reserves the right to and, in appropriate cases, will seek restitution of all
or part of any performance shares or cash paid under this Performance Award if: 

a. 
       
     the amount of the payment was based upon the achievement of earnings per
share (EPS) that were subsequently the subject of restatement of all or a portion
of the Company s financial statements; 

b. 
       
     the Grantee engaged in intentional misconduct that caused or partially
caused the need for such a restatement; and 

c. 
       
     the amount of the payment that would have been made to the Grantee had the
financial results been properly reported would have been lower than the amount
actually paid. 

In the event that the Company determines to seek restitution under this section at a time when
the Performance Shares are still subject to the restrictions set forth in Section 7, then,
notwithstanding any contrary language in the restricted stock unit grant, the conditions of the
restriction shall be deemed to have been breached by the Grantee, and all interest of the
grantee in the restricted performance shares shall immediately terminate and be forfeited. 

This section is not intended to limit the Company s power to take such action as it deems
necessary to remedy the misconduct, prevent its reoccurrence and, if appropriate, based on all
relevant facts and circumstances, punish the wrongdoer in a manner it deems appropriate. 

Page 6 

Eli Lilly and Company Performance Award

Section 11. Notices, Payments and Electronic Delivery and Participation 

Any notice to be given by the Grantee or Successor Grantee shall be in writing, and any
notice or payment shall be deemed to have been given or made only upon receipt thereof by the
Treasurer of Lilly at Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, Indiana 46285, U.S.A. Any notice
or communication by Lilly in writing shall be deemed to have been given in the case of the
Grantee if mailed or delivered to the Grantee at any address specified in writing to Lilly by
the Grantee and, in the case of any Successor Grantee, at the address specified in writing to
Lilly by the Successor Grantee. In addition, Lilly may, in its sole discretion, decide to
deliver any documents related to the Performance Award and participation in the 2002 Plan by
electronic means or request the Grantee s consent to participate in the 2002 Plan by electronic
means. By accepting this Performance Award, the Grantee
hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in
the 2002 Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by Lilly or
another third party designated by Lilly. 

Section 12. Waiver 

The waiver by Lilly of any provision of this instrument at any time or for any purpose
shall not operate as or be construed to be a waiver of that provision or any other provision of
this instrument at any subsequent time or for any other purpose. 

Section 13. Revocation or Modification 

This Performance Award shall be irrevocable except that Lilly shall have the right to
revoke or modify this Performance Award under Section 13(e) of the 2002 Plan. 

Section 14. Withholding Tax 

Regardless of any action Lilly and/or the Grantee s employer (the  Employer ) takes with
respect to any or all income tax (including federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax), social
insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to the Grantee s
participation in the Plan and legally applicable to the Grantee ( Tax Related Items ), the
Grantee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax Related Items is and remains the
Grantee s responsibility and that Lilly and the Employer (a) make no representations or
undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Related Items in connection with any aspect of
the Performance Award, including the grant of the Performance Award, the expiration of the
Award Period, the transfer and issuance of any Performance Shares or the receipt of any cash
payment pursuant to this Performance Award, the
receipt of any dividends and the sale of any Performance Shares acquired pursuant to this
Performance Award; and (b) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms
of the grant or any aspect of the Performance Award to reduce or eliminate the Grantee s
liability for Tax Related Items. Furthermore, if the Grantee has become subject to tax in more
than one jurisdiction between the date of grant and the date of any relevant taxable or tax
withholding event, the Grantee acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former
employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax Related Items in more
than one jurisdiction. 

Prior to the applicable taxable or tax withholding event, the Grantee shall pay, or make
adequate arrangements satisfactory to Lilly and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax Related
Items. In this 

Page 7 

Eli Lilly and Company Performance Award

regard, the Grantee authorizes Lilly and/or the Employer to withhold all
applicable Tax Related Items legally payable by the Grantee from the Grantee s wages or other
cash compensation payable to the Grantee by Lilly and/or the Employer or from any cash payment
received upon expiration of the Award Period in accordance with Section 6. Alternatively, or
in addition, if permissible under local law, the Grantee authorizes Lilly and/or the Employer,
or their respective agents, at their discretion, to (i) withhold from the proceeds of the sale
of Performance Shares acquired pursuant to this Performance Award, (ii) arrange for the sale of
Performance Shares to be issued upon the
expiration of the Award Period (at the Grantee s behalf and at the Grantee s direction pursuant
to this authorization), and/or (iii) withhold in Performance Shares otherwise issuable to the
Grantee pursuant to this Performance Award, provided that Lilly and/or the Employer may
withhold or account for Tax Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory
withholding amounts or other applicable withholding rates. If the obligation for Tax Related
Items is satisfied by withholding Performance Shares as described in (iii) herein, the Grantee
will be deemed to have been issued the full number of Performance Shares to which he or she is
entitled pursuant to this Performance Award, notwithstanding that a number of Performance
Shares are withheld to satisfy the obligation for Tax Related Items. The Grantee shall pay to
Lilly and/or the Employer any amount of Tax Related
Items that Lilly and/or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of
any aspect of this Performance Award that cannot be satisfied by the means previously
described. Lilly may refuse to deliver Performance Shares or any cash payment to the Grantee
if the Grantee fails to comply with the Grantee s obligation in connection with the Tax Related
Items as described herein. 

Section 15. Section 409A Compliance 

To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Performance Award comply with the
requirements of Section 409A of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the
Treasury Regulations and other guidance issued thereunder ( Section 409A ), and this
Performance Award shall be interpreted and applied by the Committee in a manner consistent with
this intent in order to avoid
the imposition of any additional tax under Section 409A. This Performance Award is subject to
Section 13(k) of the 2002 Plan concerning Section 409A. 

Section 16. Non-Transfer of Performance Award 

No right in or under this Performance Award is transferable except by operation of law to
a duly appointed guardian of the estate of Grantee or upon the death of the Grantee by will or
the applicable laws of descent and distribution and then only subject to the provisions of
Sections 8 and 9. 

Section 17. Severability and Section Headings 

If one or more of the provisions of this instrument shall be held invalid, illegal or
unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining
provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or
unenforceable provisions shall be deemed
null and void; however, to the extent permissible by law, any provisions which could be deemed
null and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this
instrument to be construed so as to foster the intent of this Performance Award and the 2002
Plan. 

The section headings in this instrument are for convenience of reference only and shall not be
deemed a part of, or germane to, the interpretation or construction of this instrument. 

Page 8 

Eli Lilly and Company Performance Award

Section 18. Determinations by Committee 

Determinations by the Committee pursuant to any provision of the 2002 Plan, pursuant to
rules, regulations and procedures adopted by the Committee or pursuant to this instrument,
including without limitation the determination of the amount and method of computation of EPS,
whether to
make an exception to the rule of Section 8, or adjustments under Section 2 or Section 3, shall
be final and binding on the Grantee and any Successor Grantee. 

Section 19. Change in Control 

The provisions of Section 12(a)(iii) of the 2002 Plan apply to this Performance Award with
the following modifications: 

a. 
       
     The only Change in Control event that shall result in a payment under
Section 12(a)(iii) of the 2002 Plan shall be consummation of a change in ownership
of the Company as defined in Section 12(b)(i) of the 2002 Plan (a  Transaction ). 

b. 
       
     On the date of the consummation of such Transaction, the Grantee will be
paid an amount equal to the product of (a) the Grantee s award opportunity for the
Performance Award based on the Company s expected results for the Award Period (as
determined by the company s last approved forecast prior to the consummation of
the Transaction, not considering the impact of the Transaction) and (b) a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days that have elapsed since the
beginning of the Award Period to the date of the consummation of the Transaction
and the denominator of which is the total number of days in the Award Period. The
payment will be deemed to have been made immediately prior to the consummation of
the Transaction in order to allow the Performance Shares
paid to be deemed outstanding and eligible to receive the consideration being paid to
Lilly shareholders in the Transaction. 

Section 20. Nature of 2002 Plan and Performance Award 

In accepting this Performance Award, the Grantee acknowledges, understands and agrees
that: 

a. 
       
     the 2002 Plan is established voluntarily by Lilly, it is discretionary in
nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by Lilly at any time,
as provided in the 2002 Plan; 

b. 
       
     the Performance Award is voluntary and occasional and does not create any
contractual or other right to receive future Performance Awards, or benefits in
lieu of Performance Awards even if Performance Awards have been granted repeatedly
in the past; 

c. 
       
     all decisions with respect to future grants of Performance Awards, if any,
will be at the sole discretion of Lilly; 

d. 
       
     the Grantee s participation in the 2002 Plan is voluntary; 

Page 9 

Eli Lilly and Company Performance Award

e. 
       
     the Performance Award and any shares of Lilly Stock subject to the Award are
an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for
services of any kind rendered to Lilly or the Employer and which is outside the
scope of the Grantee s employment contract, if any; 

f. 
       
     the Performance Award and any shares of Lilly Stock subject to the Award are
not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including,
but not limited to, calculation of any severance, resignation, termination,
redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or
welfare or retirement benefits or
similar payments and in no event should be considered as compensation for, or
relating in any way to, past services for Lilly or the Employer; 

g. 
       
     neither the Performance Award nor any provision of this instrument, the 2002
Plan or the policies adopted pursuant to the 2002 Plan confer upon the Grantee any
right with respect to employment or continuation of current employment, and in the
event that the Grantee is not an employee of Lilly or any subsidiary of Lilly, the
Performance Award shall not be interpreted to form an employment contract or
relationship with Lilly or any subsidiary of Lilly; 

h. 
       
     the future value of the underlying Performance Shares is unknown and cannot
be predicted with certainty; 

i. 
       
     the value of any Performance Shares acquired upon expiration of the Award
Period may increase or decrease in value, even below the tax valuation price; 

j. 
       
     no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from
forfeiture of the Performance Award or from any diminution in value of the
Performance Award or
Performance Shares acquired upon expiration of the Award Period resulting from
termination of the Grantee s employment by Lilly or the Employer (for any reason
whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and, in consideration of
the grant of the Performance Award to which the Grantee is otherwise not entitled,
the Grantee agrees never to institute any claim against the Company or the Employer,
waives the ability, if any, to bring any such claim and releases the Company and the
Employer from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is
allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, the
Grantee will be
deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agrees to execute any
and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claims; 

k. 
       
     in the event of termination of the Grantee s employment (whether or not in
breach of local labor laws), the Grantee s right to receive Performance Shares
upon expiration of the Award Period will terminate effective as of the date the
Grantee is no longer actively employed (unless one of the adjustments in Section 9
applies) and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law
( e.g ., active employment would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar
period pursuant to local law); the Committee 

Page 10 

Eli Lilly and Company Performance Award

shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when the Grantee is no longer
actively employed for purposes of the Performance Award; 

l. 
       
     Lilly is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is Lilly
making any recommendations regarding the Grantee s participation in the 2002 Plan
or the Grantee s acquisition or sale of the underlying Performance Shares; and 

m. 
       
     the Grantee is hereby advised to consult with his or her own personal tax,
legal and financial advisors regarding the Grantee s participation in the 2002
Plan before taking any action related to the 2002 Plan. 

Section 21. Data Privacy 

The Grantee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and
transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Grantee s personal data as described in this
Performance Award by and among, as applicable, the Employer, Lilly, its subsidiaries and its
affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee s
participation in the 2002 Plan.  

The Grantee understands that Lilly may hold certain personal information about the Grantee,
including, but not limited to, the Grantee s name, home address and telephone number, date of
birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title,
any shares of stock or directorships held in Lilly, details of all Performance Awards or any
other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Grantee s
favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the 2002 Plan ( Data ). The
Grantee understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the
implementation, administration and management of the 2002 Plan, that these recipients may be
located in the Grantee s country, or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country may have
different data privacy laws and protections
than the Grantee s country. The Grantee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use,
retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing,
administering and managing the Grantee s participation in the 2002 Plan, including any
requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third
party with whom any shares received upon expiration of the Award Period may be deposited. The
Grantee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement,
administer and manage the Grantee s participation in the 2002 Plan. The Grantee understands
that the Grantee may, at any time, request an equity award transaction statement, request any
necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without
cost, by contacting in writing the Grantee s local human
resources representative. The Grantee understands that refusal or withdrawal of consent may
affect the Grantee s ability to participate in the 2002 Plan. For more information on the
consequences of the Grantee s refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Grantee
understands that the Grantee may contact the Grantee s local human resources representative.  

Section 22. Effective Date 

The effective date of this instrument shall be the date of grant. 

Page 11 

Eli Lilly and Company Performance Award

Section 23. Governing Law 

The validity and construction of this Performance Award shall be governed by the laws of
the State of Indiana, U.S.A. without regard to laws that might cause other law to govern under
applicable principles of conflict of laws. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises
under this
Performance Award, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of
Indiana, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of Marion County,
Indiana, or the federal courts for the United States for the Southern District of Indiana ,  and
no other courts, where this Performance Award is granted and/or to be performed. 

Section 24. Language 

If the Grantee has received this instrument or any other document related to the 2002 Plan
translated into a language other than English and if the translated version is different than
the English version, the English version will control. 

Section 25. Imposition of Other Requirements 

If the Grantee relocates to another country, any special terms and conditions applicable
to Performance Awards granted in such country will apply to the Grantee, to the extent the
Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable
in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. 

In addition, the Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on the Performance
Awards and any shares of Lilly Stock acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company
determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the
administration of the
Plan, and to require the Grantee to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be
necessary to accomplish the foregoing. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Lilly has caused this Performance Award to be executed and granted in
Indianapolis, Indiana, by its proper officer. 

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 

By:   

John Lechleiter  

Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Page 12 

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.4>
 3
 c55339kexv10w4.htm
 EX-10.4

exv10w4 

Exhibit 10.4

Eli Lilly and Company 
Restricted Stock Unit 
(for Executive Officers)

This Restricted Stock Unit Award has been granted on January 26, 2010, by Eli Lilly and
Company, an Indiana corporation, with its principal offices in Indianapolis, Indiana ( Lilly  or
the  Company ), to Grantee.

Number of Shares: 

Log into Merrill Lynch account at  
  http://www.benefits.ml.com   

Restriction Lapse: 

February 1, 2011 
(or earlier in certain circumstances)  

Eli Lilly and Company Restricted Stock Unit  

Table of Contents

A. Recitals

3 

B. Restricted Stock Unit

3 

Section 1. Number of Restricted Stock Units

3 

Section 2. Rights of the Grantee

3 

Section 3. Restriction Period

4 

Section 4. Retirement

4 

Section 5. Record of the Award

5 

Section 6. Conditions During Restriction Period

5 

Section 7. Consequences of Breach of Conditions

5 

Section 8. Committee Election to Pay Cash

5 

Section 9. Lapse of Restrictions

6 

Section 10. Revocation or Modification of Award

6 

Section 11. Prohibition Against Transfer

6 

Section 12. Notices, Payments and Electronic Delivery and Participation

7 

Section 13. Waiver

7 

Section 14. Withholding Tax

7 

Section 15. Section 409A Compliance

8 

Section 16. Severability and Section Headings

8 

Section 17. Determinations by Committee

9 

Section 18. Change in Control

9 

Section 19. Nature of 2002 Plan and Award

10 

Section 20. Data Privacy

11 

Section 21. Effective Date

12 

Section 22. Governing Law

12 

Section 23. Language

12 

Section 24. Adjustments to Number of Shares

12 

Section 25. Imposition of Other Requirements

12 

Page 2 

Eli Lilly and Company Restricted Stock Unit  

A.  
       
      Recitals  

Under the 2002 LILLY STOCK PLAN ( 2002 Plan ), the Compensation Committee ( Committee ) has
determined the form of this Restricted Stock Unit Award ( Award ) and selected the Grantee, an
Eligible Employee of the Company, to receive a Restricted Stock Unit Award. The applicable terms
of the 2002 Plan are incorporated in this Restricted Stock Unit Award by reference, including the
definitions of terms contained in the 2002 Plan. 

B.  
       
      Restricted Stock Unit  

Lilly grants to the grantee this Award of Restricted Stock Units, with each Restricted
Stock Unit representing the right to receive one share of Eli Lilly and Company Common Stock
( Lilly Stock ), plus an amount of cash pursuant to Section 2 (b), subject to certain
restrictions and on the terms and conditions contained in this Award and the 2002 Plan. In the
event of any conflict between the terms of the 2002 Plan and this Award, the terms of the 2002
Plan shall govern, except as provided in Sections 3 and 6. Any terms not defined
herein shall have the meaning set forth in the 2002 Plan. This Award is made under the terms
and conditions noted below: 

Section 1. Number of Restricted Stock Units 

Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 24, the Grantee may receive the number of
shares of Lilly Stock as outlined on the first page of this document. 

Section 2. Rights of the Grantee 

a. 
       
      No Shareholder Rights . The Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant
to this Award do not and shall not entitle Grantee to any rights of a
shareholder of Lilly Stock until such time as the Restricted Stock Units vest
and shares of Lilly Stock are issued or transferred. No shares of Lilly Stock
shall be issued or transferred
to Grantee prior to the date on which the Restricted Stock Units vest and the
restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units lapse. The rights of
Grantee with respect to the Restricted Stock Units shall remain forfeitable at all
times prior to the date on which the Restricted Stock Units become vested and the
restrictions with respect to the Restricted Stock Units lapse. 

b. 
       
      Dividend Equivalent Units . As long as the Grantee holds
Restricted Stock Units granted pursuant to this Award, the Company shall accrue
for the Grantee, on each date that the Company pays a cash dividend to holders
of Lilly Stock,
Dividend Equivalent Units equal to the total number of Restricted Stock Units
credited to the Grantee under this Award multiplied by the dollar amount of the
cash dividend paid per share of Lilly Stock by the Company on such date. Dividend
Equivalent Units shall accrue in an account denominated in U.S. dollars and shall
not accrue interest or other credits prior to being paid. A report showing the
accrued Dividend Equivalent Units shall be sent to the Grantee periodically, as
determined by the Company. The accrued Dividend Equivalent  

Page 3 

Eli Lilly and Company Restricted Stock Unit  

Units shall be subject
to the same restrictions as the Restricted Stock Units to which the Dividend
Equivalent Units relate, and the Dividend Equivalent Units
shall be forfeited in the event that the Restricted Stock Units with respect to
which such Dividend Equivalent Units were credited are forfeited. 

c. 
       
      No Trust; Grantee s Rights Unsecured.  Neither this Award nor any
action pursuant to or in accordance with this Award shall be construed to create
a trust of any kind. The right of Grantee to receive payments of cash or Lilly
Stock under this Award shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of
the Company. 

Section 3. Restriction Period 

The period of restriction ( Restriction Period ) under this Award shall commence on the
effective date of the Award and expire at the close of business on the earliest of the
following dates: 

a. 
       
     February 1, 2011, 

b. 
       
     the date of death of the Grantee while in the active service of the
Company, 

c. 
       
     the date the Grantee s employment is terminated by reason of
 disability,  within the meaning of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code
(the  Code ), or 

d. 
       
     the date the Grantee suffers a  separation from service  from Lilly or
the Employer, within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code, and such
separation from service is due to a plant closing or reduction in workforce as
defined below. 

Plant closing means the closing of a plant site or other corporate location that directly
results in termination of employment. Reduction in workforce means the elimination of a work
group, functional or business unit or other broadly applicable reduction in job positions that
directly results in termination of employment. 

The Committee s determination whether the Grantee s employment has been terminated by reason of
disability, whether a leave of absence constitutes a termination of employment or whether a
Grantee s termination is a direct result of either a plant closing or a reduction in workforce
shall be final and binding on the Grantee. Notwithstanding anything in Section 10(a) of the
2002 Plan to the contrary, the Committee shall not modify the expiration dates set forth in
this Award so as to accelerate the termination of the Restriction Period. 

Section 4. Retirement 

In the event the Grantee s employment is terminated due to retirement, the Award will
continue pursuant to the established Restriction Period and Dividend Equivalent Unit accrual
schedule. The Award will be paid in full to the retiree upon the lapse of all
restrictions as noted in Section 9. A retiree is a person who is (i) a retired employee under
the Lilly Retirement Plan; (ii) a retired employee under the retirement plan or program of a
Lilly subsidiary; or (iii) a retired employee under a retirement program specifically approved
by the Committee. 

Page 4 

Eli Lilly and Company Restricted Stock Unit  

A Grantee who has not received a year-end individual performance rating and (i) is on
employment probation (or its equivalent outside the United States, as determined by the
Committee) for unsatisfactory performance and takes retirement in lieu of a termination of
employment; or (ii) takes retirement in lieu of termination of employment because of an
immediately terminable offense (e.g., absence of three days without notice, insubordination,
violation of substance abuse policy, possession of firearms, misconduct) will not be considered
to have terminated due to retirement as described herein. 

Section 5. Record of the Award 

During the Restriction Period, records of the Award and accumulated Dividend Equivalent
Units will reside in an account at the Company or an Equity Administration Agent designated by
the Company. 

Section 6. Conditions During Restriction Period 

During the entire Restriction Period, the employment of the Grantee with the Company must
not terminate except for reasons specified in Sections 3.b, 3.c, 3.d, or 4.  Termination of
employment  shall mean the cessation for any reason of the relation of employer and employee
between the Grantee and the Company (or, if different, the Grantee s employer). 

Furthermore, for any year or portion of a year that falls within the Restriction Period, the
Grantee must not receive a year-end individual performance rating of unsatisfactory. 

Section 7. Consequences of Breach of Conditions 

If any of the conditions that must continue to be satisfied during the Restriction Period
under Section 6 is breached during the Restriction Period, either by act of the Grantee or
otherwise, the Grantee, by accepting this Award, agrees that upon such breach all interest of
the Grantee in the Restricted Stock Units and associated Dividend Equivalent Units shall
terminate and be forfeited. The Committee s determination shall be final and binding on the
Grantee. The Company shall incur no liability to the Grantee under this Award by terminating
the Grantee s status as an Eligible Employee, whether by action with respect to the Grantee
individually, either with or without cause, or by dissolution or liquidation of Lilly or merger
or consolidation of Lilly with a corporation in which Lilly is not the surviving corporation,
or otherwise. Notwithstanding anything in Section 10(a) of the 2002 Plan to the contrary, the
Committee shall not waive the breach of the conditions set forth in Section 6. 

Section 8. Committee Election to Pay Cash 

At any time during the Restriction Period or until paid in accordance with Section 9, the
Committee may, if it so elects, determine to pay part or all of this Award in cash in lieu of
issuing or transferring shares of Lilly Stock. The amount of cash shall be based upon the fair
market value of Lilly Stock at the end of the Restriction Period as outlined in Section 9. 

Page 5 

Eli Lilly and Company Restricted Stock Unit  

Section 9. Lapse of Restrictions 

At the end of the Restriction Period, if the conditions specified in Section 6 have not
been breached during the Restriction Period, all restrictions shall terminate. The Award shall
be paid to Grantee within a sixty day period starting the day after the end of the Restriction
Period and ending on the sixtieth day after the end of the Restriction Period, but no later than
December 31 of the year in which the Restriction Period ends, as follows: 

a. 
       
     Lilly shall issue or transfer to the Grantee shares of Lilly Stock or the
cash equivalent, as described in Section 8 above, equal to one share per
Restricted Stock Unit subject to the withholding tax provisions in Section 14
below. The shares may be newly issued shares or treasury shares, unless otherwise
required by local law. In the event Grantee is entitled to a fractional share,
the fraction may be paid in cash or rounded, in the Committee s discretion. 

b. 
       
     Lilly shall pay to the Grantee in cash all accrued Dividend Equivalent
Units following deduction for all applicable withholding tax in accordance with
Section 14 below. 

In the event that the Restriction Period ends by reason of death of the Grantee, the payments
as described above shall be made to the Successor Grantee. Notwithstanding anything in Section
10(a) of the 2002 Plan to the contrary, the Committee shall not direct that the restrictions on
this Award will lapse other than as expressly set forth in this Award. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if the Grantee is treated as a  specified employee  within the
meaning of Section 409A of the Code as of the date of any payment hereunder, the commencement
of any payment shall be delayed in accordance with Section 15 hereof. 

Section 10. Revocation or Modification of Award 

Lilly may revoke this Award at any time during the Restriction Period if it is contrary to
law and, in that event, shall give notice to the Grantee. Lilly may also modify this Award and
the issuance or transfer of the Lilly Stock pursuant to this Award to the extent necessary to
bring the Award and the issuance or transfer of the shares of Lilly Stock into compliance with
any applicable law or regulation now or hereafter promulgated by any governmental agency having
jurisdiction. By accepting this Award and the issuance or transfer of shares of Lilly
Stock under this Award, the Grantee agrees that Lilly may change the number of shares of Lilly
Stock issued or transferred as Lilly deems necessary to comply with the law. 

Section 11. Prohibition Against Transfer 

The right of a Grantee to receive payments of Lilly Stock and/or cash under this Award may
not be transferred except to a Successor Grantee by will or applicable laws of descent and
distribution. A Grantee may not assign, sell, pledge, or otherwise transfer Lilly Stock or
cash to which he or she is entitled hereunder prior to transfer or payment thereof to the
Grantee, and any such attempted assignment, sale, pledge or transfer shall be void. 

Page 6 

Eli Lilly and Company Restricted Stock Unit  

Section 12. Notices, Payments and Electronic Delivery and Participation 

Any notice to be given by the Grantee or Successor Grantee shall be in writing, and any
notice or payment shall be deemed to have been given or made only upon receipt thereof by the
Treasurer of Lilly at Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, Indiana 46285, U.S.A. Any notice
or communication by Lilly in writing shall be deemed to have been given in the case of the
Grantee if mailed or delivered to the Grantee at any address specified in writing to Lilly by
the Grantee and, in the case of any Successor Grantee, at the address specified in writing to
Lilly by the Successor Grantee. In addition, Lilly may, in its sole discretion, decide to
deliver any documents related to the Award and participation in the 2002 Plan by electronic
means or request the Grantee s consent to participate in the 2002 Plan by electronic means.
By accepting this Award, the Grantee hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic
delivery and agrees to participate in the 2002 Plan through an on-line or electronic system
established and maintained by Lilly or another third party designated by Lilly. 

Section 13. Waiver 

The waiver by Lilly of any provision of this instrument at any time or for any purpose
shall not operate as or be construed to be a waiver of the same or any other provision of this
instrument at any subsequent time or for any other purpose. 

Section 14. Withholding Tax 

Regardless of any action Lilly and/or the Grantee s employer (the  Employer ) takes with
respect to any or all income tax (including federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax), social
insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to the Grantee s
participation in the Plan and legally applicable to the Grantee ( Tax Related Items ), the
Grantee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax Related Items is and remains the
Grantee s responsibility and that Lilly and the Employer (a) make no representations or
undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Related Items in connection with any aspect of
the Restricted Stock Units, including the grant of the Restricted Stock Units, the accrual of
Dividend Equivalent Units, the vesting of the Restricted
Stock Units and the lapse of restrictions, the transfer and issuance of any shares of Lilly
Stock or the receipt of any cash payment pursuant to this Award, the receipt of any dividends
and the sale of any shares of Lilly Stock acquired pursuant to this Award; and (b) do not
commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the
Restricted Stock Units to reduce or eliminate the Grantee s liability for Tax Related Items.
Furthermore, if the Grantee has become subject to tax in more than one jurisdiction between the
date of grant and the date of any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, the Grantee
acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or
former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax Related Items in
more than one jurisdiction. 

Prior to the applicable taxable or tax withholding event, the Grantee shall pay or make
adequate arrangements satisfactory to Lilly and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax Related
Items. In this regard, the Grantee authorizes Lilly and/or the Employer to withhold all 

Page 7 

Eli Lilly and Company Restricted Stock Unit  

applicable Tax Related Items legally payable by the Grantee from the Grantee s wages or other
cash compensation payable to the Grantee by Lilly and/or the Employer or from any cash payment
received upon expiration of the Restriction Period in accordance with Section
9. Alternatively, or in addition, if permissible under local law, the Grantee authorizes Lilly
and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to (i) withhold from the
proceeds of the sale of shares of Lilly Stock acquired pursuant to this Award, (ii) arrange for
the sale of shares of Lilly Stock to be issued upon the expiration of the Restriction Period
(at the Grantee s behalf and at the Grantee s direction pursuant to this authorization), and/or
(iii) withhold in shares of Lilly Stock otherwise issuable to the Grantee pursuant to this
Award, provided that Lilly and/or the Employer may withhold or account for Tax Related Items by
considering applicable minimum statutory withholding amounts or other applicable withholding
rates. If the obligation for Tax Related Items is satisfied by
withholding shares of Lilly Stock as described in (iii) herein, the Grantee will be deemed to
have been issued the full number of shares of Lilly Stock to which he or she is entitled
pursuant to this Award, notwithstanding that a number of shares of Lilly Stock are withheld to
satisfy the obligation for Tax Related Items. The Grantee shall pay to Lilly and/or the
Employer any amount of Tax Related Items that Lilly and/or the Employer may be required to
withhold or account for as a result of any aspect of this Award that cannot be satisfied by the
means previously described. Lilly may refuse to deliver shares of Lilly Stock or any cash
payment to the Grantee if the Grantee fails to comply with the Grantee s obligation in
connection with the Tax Related Items as described herein. 

Section 15. Section 409A Compliance 

To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Award comply with the requirements of
Section 409A of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the Treasury Regulations
and other guidance issued thereunder ( Section 409A ) and this Award shall be interpreted and
applied by the Committee in a manner consistent with this intent in order to avoid the
imposition of any additional tax under Section 409A. Notwithstanding anything elsewhere in
this Award to the contrary, if a Grantee is treated as a  specified employee  as of the date of
any payment under this Award, as determined by the Company in accordance with its procedures,
then, to the extent required, the commencement of any payment under this Award shall be delayed
until the date that is six (6) months following the date of the
Grantee s separation from service. This Award is subject to Section 13(k) of the 2002 Plan
concerning Section 409A. 

Section 16. Severability and Section Headings 

If one or more of the provisions of this instrument shall be held invalid, illegal or
unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining
provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or
unenforceable provisions shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by
law, any provisions which could be deemed null and void shall first be construed, interpreted
or revised retroactively to permit this instrument to be construed so as to foster the intent
of this Award and the 2002 Plan. 

Page 8 

Eli Lilly and Company Restricted Stock Unit  

The section headings in this instrument are for convenience of reference only and shall not be
deemed a part of, or germane to, the interpretation or construction of this instrument. 

Section 17. Determinations by Committee 

Determinations by the Committee pursuant to any provision of the 2002 Plan, pursuant to
rules, regulations, and procedures adopted by the Committee, or pursuant to this instrument
shall be final and binding on the Grantee and any Successor Grantee. 

Section 18. Change in Control 

The provisions of Section 12(a)(v) of the 2002 Plan do not apply to this Award. 

Page 9 

Eli Lilly and Company Restricted Stock Unit  

Section 19. Nature of 2002 Plan and Award 

In accepting this Award, the Grantee acknowledges, understands and agrees that: 

a. 
       
     the 2002 Plan is established voluntarily by Lilly, it is discretionary in
nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by Lilly at any
time, as provided in the 2002 Plan; 

b. 
       
     the Award is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual
or other right to receive future awards of Restricted Stock Units, or benefits
in lieu of Restricted Stock Units, even if Restricted Stock Units have been
granted repeatedly in the past; 

c. 
       
     all decisions with respect to future awards of Restricted Stock Units, if
any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee; 

d. 
       
     the Grantee s participation in the 2002 Plan is voluntary; 

e. 
       
     the Award and any shares of Lilly Stock subject to the Award are an
extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation of any kind for
services of any kind rendered to Lilly or the Employer and which is outside the
scope of Grantee s employment contract, if any; 

f. 
       
     the Award and any shares of Lilly Stock subject to the Award are not part
of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purposes, including, but
not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end
of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or welfare or
retirement benefits or similar payments and in no event should be considered as
compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for Lilly or the
Employer; 

g. 
       
     neither the Award nor any provision of this instrument, the 2002 Plan or
the policies adopted pursuant to the 2002 Plan confer upon the Grantee any right
with respect to employment or continuation of current employment, and in the
event that the Grantee is not an employee of Lilly or any subsidiary of Lilly,
the Award shall not be interpreted to form an employment contract or relationship with
Lilly or any subsidiary of Lilly; 

h. 
       
     the future value of the underlying shares of Lilly Stock is unknown and
cannot be predicted with certainty; 

i. 
       
     the value of shares of Lilly Stock acquired upon lapse of the Restriction
Period may increase or decrease in value, even below the tax valuation price; 

j. 
       
     no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from
forfeiture of the Award resulting from termination of the Grantee s employment
by Lilly or the Employer (for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach
of local labor laws) and, in consideration of the grant of the Award to which the Grantee
is otherwise not entitled, the Grantee agrees never to institute any claim against
the Company or the Employer, waives the ability, if any, to bring any such claim
and releases the Company and the Employer from any such claim; if, notwithstanding
the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction,
then, by participating in the Plan, the Grantee will be deemed  

Page 10 

Eli Lilly and Company Restricted Stock Unit  

irrevocably to
have agreed not to pursue such claim and agrees to execute any and all documents
necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claims; 

k. 
       
     in the event of termination of the Grantee s employment (whether or not
in breach of local labor laws), the Grantee s right to receive or vest in the
Award, if any, will terminate effective as of the date the Grantee is no longer
actively employed and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under
local law ( e.g. , active employment would not include a period of  garden leave 
or similar period pursuant to local law); the Committee shall have the exclusive
discretion to determine when the Grantee is no longer actively employed for
purposes of the Award; 

l. 
       
     Lilly is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is Lilly
making any recommendations regarding the Grantee s participation in the 2002
Plan or the Grantee s acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Lilly
Stock; and 

m. 
       
     the Grantee is hereby advised to consult with his or her own personal
tax, legal and financial advisors regarding the Grantee s participation in the
2002 Plan before taking any action related to the Plan. 

Section 20. Data Privacy 

The Grantee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and
transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Grantee s personal data as described in this
Award by and among, as applicable, the Employer, Lilly, its subsidiaries and its affiliates for
the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee s participation
in the 2002 Plan.  

The Grantee understands that Lilly may hold certain personal information about the Grantee,
including, but not limited to, the Grantee s name, home address and telephone number, date of
birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title,
any shares of stock or directorships held in Lilly, details of all Awards or any other
entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Grantee s
favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the 2002
Plan ( Data ). The Grantee understands that Data may be transferred to any third parties
assisting in the implementation, administration and management of the 2002 Plan, that these
recipients may be located in the Grantee s country, or elsewhere, and that the recipient s
country may have different data privacy laws and protections than the Grantee s country. The
Grantee authorizes the recipients to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in
electronic or other form, for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the
Grantee s participation in the 2002 Plan, including any requisite transfer of such Data as may
be required to a broker, escrow agent or other third party with whom any shares received upon
lapse of the Restriction Period may be deposited. The Grantee
understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and
manage the Grantee s participation in the 2002 Plan. The Grantee understands that the Grantee
may, at any time, request an equity award transaction statement, request any necessary
amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by
contacting in writing the Grantee s local human resources representative. The Grantee
understands that refusal or withdrawal of consent may affect the Grantee s   

Page 11 

Eli Lilly and Company Restricted Stock Unit  

ability to
participate in the 2002 Plan. For more information on the consequences of the Grantee s
refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Grantee understands that the Grantee may
contact the Grantee s local human resources representative.  

Section 21. Effective Date 

The effective date of this instrument shall be the date of grant. 

Section 22. Governing Law 

The validity and construction of this Award shall be governed by the laws of the State of
Indiana, U.S.A. without regard to laws that might cause other law to govern under applicable
principles of conflict of laws. For purposes of litigating any dispute that arises under this
Award, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the jurisdiction of the State of Indiana,
and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the courts of Marion County, Indiana, or
the federal courts for the United States for the Southern District of Indiana ,  and no other
courts, where this Award is granted and/or to be performed. 

Section 23. Language 

If the Grantee has received this instrument or any other document related to the 2002 Plan
translated into a language other than English and if the translated version is different than
the English version, the English version will control. 

Section 24. Adjustments to Number of Shares 

The number of shares of Lilly stock subject to this Award shall be subject to adjustment
in accordance with the provisions of Section 4(b) of the 2002 Plan for certain corporate
recapitalizations and other events. 

Section 25. Imposition of Other Requirements 

If the Grantee relocates to another country, any special terms and conditions applicable
to Restricted Stock Units granted in such country will apply to the Grantee, to the extent the
Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable
in order to comply with local law or facilitate the administration of the Plan. 

In addition, the Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on the Restricted
Stock Units and any shares of Lilly Stock acquired under the Plan, to the extent the Company
determines it is necessary or advisable in order to comply with local law or facilitate the
administration of the Plan, and to require the Grantee to sign any additional agreements or
undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Lilly has caused this Award to be executed in Indianapolis, Indiana, by its
proper officer.

Page 12 

Eli Lilly and Company Restricted Stock Unit  

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 

By:   

John Lechleiter  

Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Page 13 

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.5>
 4
 c55339kexv10w5.htm
 EX-10.5

exv10w5 

Exhibit 10.5

Eli Lilly and Company 
Shareholder Value Award

This Shareholder Value Award has been granted for the period of January 1, 2010 through
December 31, 2012 by Eli Lilly and Company, an Indiana corporation with its principal offices in
Indianapolis, Indiana ( Lilly  or the  Company ), to Grantee.

Performance Levels

Eli Lilly
and Company Shareholder Value Award  

Table of Contents

A. Recitals

3 

B. Shareholder Value Award

3 

Section 1. Statement of Award Period

3 

Section 2. Number of Shares

3 

Section 3. Computation of Final Stock Price

3 

Section 4. Determination and Announcement of Award

4 

Section 5. Committee Election to Pay Cash

4 

Section 6. Issuance or Transfer of Performance Shares and Payment of Cash Award

4 

Section 7. Consideration for Continued Employment Requirement

4 

Section 8. Adjustments for Certain Employment Status Changes

4 

Section 9. Notices, Payments, and Electronic Delivery and Participation

5 

Section 10. Waiver

6 

Section 11. Revocation or Modification

6 

Section 12. Withholding Tax

6 

Section 13. Section 409A Compliance

7 

Section 14. Non-Transfer of Shareholder Value Award

7 

Section 15. Severability and Section Headings

7 

Section 16. Determinations by Committee

7 

Section 17. Change in Control

7 

Section 18. Nature of 2002 Plan   Shareholder Value Award

9 

Section 19. Data Privacy Notice and Consent

10 

Section 20. Effective Date

11 

Section 21. Governing Law

11 

Section 22. Language

11 

Section 23. Appendix

12 

Page 2 

Eli Lilly
and Company Shareholder Value Award  

A. 
       
     Recitals 

Under the 2002 LILLY STOCK PLAN ( 2002 Plan ), the Compensation Committee ( Committee )
has determined the form of this Shareholder Value Award and selected the Grantee, an Eligible
Employee of the Company, to receive a Shareholder Value Award for the Award Period January 1,
2010 through December 31, 2012. The applicable terms of the 2002 Plan are incorporated in this
Shareholder Value Award by reference, including the definitions of terms contained in the 2002
Plan. This award is granted under Section 6 of the 2002 Plan,  Performance Awards to Eligible
Employees,  and shall be considered a form of Performance Award for purposes of interpretation
and administration of the award under the 2002 Plan. 

B. 
       
     Shareholder Value Award 

Lilly grants to the Grantee the right to acquire Lilly Stock by issuance or transfer to
the Grantee of the Performance Shares to which he or she is entitled under this Shareholder
Value Award upon the following terms and conditions, including any special terms and conditions
set forth in the appendix for the Grantee s country of residence, if any, as provided in
Section 23: 

Section 1. Statement of Award Period 

The Award Period shall begin January 1, 2010 and end December 31, 2012. 

Section 2. Number of Shares 

The number of Performance Shares for the Award Period shall be determined by the
Performance Share value as approved by the Grantee s supervisor and a FAS123(R) accepted
financial model. Target shares are set at Level 4. The remaining columns of the table on the
first page of this Shareholder Value Award are multiples of the target shares as set forth in
the % of Target row and correspond to the applicable stock price, subject to adjustment as
provided below in this Section or in Section 8. Grantees may view their Shareholder Value
Award by logging on to the Merrill Lynch website at
 http://benefits.ml.com  after March 31 of
each grant year. 

The number of Performance Shares for the Award Period and the final stock price as defined
below in Section 3 will be adjusted by the Committee under Section 4(b) of the 2002 Plan upon
the occurrence, prior to the effective date of the issuance or transfer of shares for payment,
of any subdivision or combination of shares of Lilly Stock, or a stock dividend, capital
reorganization, recapitalization, or consolidation or merger with Lilly as the surviving
corporation, or if additional shares or new or different shares or other securities of Lilly or
any other issuer are distributed with respect to the shares of Lilly Stock through a spin-off,
exchange offer, or other extraordinary distribution occurring prior to the effective date of
the issuance or transfer of shares for payment. A fractional share resulting from such adjustment shall in the discretion of the Committee either
be paid in cash or rounded. 

Section 3. Computation of Final Stock Price 

The Final Stock Price shall be computed in accordance with Section 16 and using the
following procedures: 

Page 3 

Eli Lilly
and Company Shareholder Value Award  

a. 
       
     The closing price for Lilly Stock on the New York Stock Exchange for each
trading day during the last two calendar months of the Award Period will be
collected and recorded. 

b. 
       
     The stock price used to determine the payout level will be the average of
the closing stock prices collected in subsection (a) above rounded to the nearest
cent. 

Section 4. Determination and Announcement of Award 

After the Final Stock Price for the Award Period is announced, the Final Stock Price and
the resulting number of Performance Shares for Grantee (determined in accordance with Sections
2 and 8), together with the Committee s election between cash and shares of Lilly Stock under
Section 5, shall be communicated to Grantee. 

Section 5. Committee Election to Pay Cash 

At any time prior to award payout, the Committee may, if it so elects, determine to pay
part or all of any Shareholder Value Award in cash in lieu of issuing or transferring
Performance Shares. The
amount of cash shall be based upon the fair market value of Lilly Stock on a valuation date to
be determined by the Committee. 

Section 6. Issuance or Transfer of Performance Shares and Payment of Cash Award 

Subject to the condition relating to withholding tax stated in Section 12, Lilly shall
issue or transfer to the Grantee any Performance Shares to be issued or transferred under
Section 4 and pay to the Grantee any cash determined to be payable under that section within a
sixty day period starting the day after the Award Period expiration and ending on the sixtieth
day after the Award Period expiration as stated in Section 1. Grantee shall have no rights as
a shareholder of Lilly with respect to the shares of Lilly Stock until the shares are issued or
transferred on the books of Lilly. 

Section 7. Consideration for Continued Employment Requirement 

This Shareholder Value Award is made in consideration of services rendered by the
Grantee to the Company during the entire Award Period. If the status of the Grantee as an
Eligible Employee, as defined in the 2002 Plan, terminates before the end of the Award Period
except as outlined in Section 8 (c), then all rights of the Grantee under this Shareholder
Value Award shall terminate with respect to the Award Period. The Company shall incur no
liability to Grantee under this Shareholder Value Award by terminating Grantee s status as an
Eligible Employee whether by action with respect to Grantee individually, either with or
without cause, or by dissolution or liquidation of Lilly or merger or consolidation of Lilly
with a corporation in which Lilly is not the surviving corporation, or otherwise. 

Section 8. Adjustments for Certain Employment Status Changes 

The number of Performance Shares described in Section 2 is based on the assumption that
the Grantee is an employee in good standing throughout the entire Award Period. Unless
otherwise required by law, the number of Performance Shares shall be adjusted for changes in
employment status during the Award Period as follows: 

Page 4 

Eli Lilly
and Company Shareholder Value Award  

a. 
       
      Leaves of Absence  .  The number of Performance Shares shall be
reduced proportionally for any portion of the total days in the Award Period
during which the Grantee is on an approved unpaid leave of absence longer than
ninety (90) days. 

b. 
       
      Demotions and Disciplinary Actions  .  The Committee may, at its
discretion, reduce the number of Performance Shares, prorated according to time,
for any portion of the Award Period during which the Grantee has been (i) demoted
to a job classification below those considered by the Committee to be eligible for
Shareholder Value Awards, or (ii) subject to disciplinary action by the Company.
In the case of disciplinary action during the Award Period, the Committee may, at
its discretion, withhold payment of this Shareholder Value Award entirely. 

c. 
       
      Retirement, death, disability or termination due to a plant closing or
reduction in workforce  .  In the event the Grantee s employment is terminated
due to retirement as a retiree, death, disability, plant closing or reduction in
workforce (as defined below), the number of Performance Shares shall be reduced
proportionally for the portion of the total days during the Award Period in which
the Grantee was not an active employee. Any payment of Performance Shares that
have been reduced by operation of this Section 8.c. shall be paid following the
Award Period expiration as described in Section 6. A retiree is a person who is
(i) a retired employee under the Lilly Retirement Plan; (ii) a retired employee
under the retirement plan or program of a Lilly subsidiary; or (iii) a retired
employee under a retirement program specifically approved by the Committee. Plant
closing means the closing of a plant site or other corporate location that directly
results in termination of employment. Reduction in workforce means the elimination
of a work group, functional or business unit or other broadly applicable reduction in
job positions that directly results in termination of employment. The Committee will
be responsible for approving, in its discretion, what is classified as disability, a
plant closing, or a reduction in workforce. 

Section 9. Notices, Payments, and Electronic Delivery and Participation 

Any notice to be given by the Grantee or Successor Grantee shall be in writing, and any
notice or payment shall be deemed to have been given or made only upon receipt thereof by the
Treasurer of
Lilly at Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, Indiana 46285, U.S.A. Any notice or
communication by Lilly in writing shall be deemed to have been given in the case of the Grantee
if mailed or delivered to the Grantee at any address specified in writing to Lilly by the
Grantee and, in the case of any Successor Grantee, at the address specified in writing to Lilly
by the Successor Grantee. In addition, Lilly may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver
any documents related to the Shareholder Value Award grant or future awards under the 2002 Plan
by electronic means or request the Grantee s consent to participate in the 2002 Plan by
electronic means. By accepting this Shareholder Value Award, the Grantee hereby consents to
receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to
participate in the 2002 Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained
by Lilly or another third party designated by Lilly. 

Page 5 

Eli Lilly
and Company Shareholder Value Award  

Section 10. Waiver 

The waiver by Lilly of any provision of this instrument at any time or for any purpose
shall not operate as or be construed to be a waiver of that provision or any other provision of
this instrument at any subsequent time or for any other purpose. 

Section 11. Revocation or Modification 

This Shareholder Value Award shall be irrevocable except that Lilly shall have the right
to revoke or modify this Shareholder Value Award under Section 13(e) of the 2002 Plan. 

Section 12. Withholding Tax 

Regardless of any action Lilly and/or the Grantee s employer (the  Employer ) takes with
respect to any or all income tax (including federal, state, local and non-U.S. tax), social
insurance, payroll tax, payment on account or other tax-related withholding ( Tax Related
Items ), the Grantee acknowledges that the ultimate liability for all Tax Related Items legally
due by the Grantee is and remains the Grantee s responsibility and that Lilly and the Employer
(a) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax Related Items in
connection with any aspect of the Shareholder Value Award, including the grant of the
Shareholder Value Award, the transfer and issuance of any Performance Shares or the receipt of
any cash payment pursuant to this Shareholder
Value Award, the receipt of any dividends and the sale of any Performance Shares acquired
pursuant to this Shareholder Value Award; and (b) do not commit to structure the terms of the
grant or any aspect of the Shareholder Value Award to reduce or eliminate the Grantee s
liability for Tax Related Items. 

Prior to the applicable tax event, the Grantee shall pay, or make adequate arrangements
satisfactory to Lilly and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax Related Items. In this regard,
the Grantee authorizes Lilly and/or the Employer to withhold all applicable Tax Related Items
legally payable by the Grantee from the Grantee s wages or other cash compensation payable to
the Grantee by Lilly and/or the
Employer or from any cash payment received upon expiration of the Award Period in accordance
with Section 6. Alternatively, or in addition, if permissible under local law, the Grantee
authorizes Lilly and/or the Employer, at their discretion, to (i) withhold from the proceeds of
the sale of Performance Shares acquired pursuant to this Shareholder Value Award, (ii) arrange
for the sale of Performance Shares to be issued upon the expiration of the Award Period (at the
Grantee s behalf and at the Grantee s direction pursuant to this authorization), and/or (iii)
withhold in Performance Shares otherwise issuable to the Grantee pursuant to this Shareholder
Value Award, provided that Lilly and/or the Employer shall withhold only the number of
Performance Shares necessary to satisfy the minimum withholding amount (or such other amount
that, as determined by Lilly, will not
trigger unfavorable accounting). If the obligation for Tax Related Items is satisfied by
withholding Performance Shares as described in (iii) herein, the Grantee will be deemed to have
been issued the full number of Performance Shares to which he or she is entitled pursuant to
this Shareholder Value Award, notwithstanding that a number of Performance Shares are withheld
to satisfy the obligation for Tax Related Items. The Grantee shall pay to Lilly and/or the
Employer any amount of Tax Related Items that Lilly and/or the Employer may be required to
withhold as a result of any aspect of this Shareholder Value Award that cannot be satisfied by
the means previously described. Lilly may  

Page 6 

Eli Lilly
and Company Shareholder Value Award  

refuse to deliver Performance Shares or any cash
payment to the Grantee if the Grantee fails to comply with the Grantee s obligation in
connection with the Tax Related Items as described herein. 

Section 13. Section 409A Compliance 

To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Shareholder Value Award comply with the
requirements of Section 409A of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended and the
Treasury Regulations and other guidance issued thereunder ( Section 409A ), and this
Shareholder Value Award shall be interpreted and applied by the Committee in a manner
consistent with this intent in order to avoid the imposition of any additional tax under
Section 409A. This Shareholder Value Award is subject to Section 13(k) of the 2002 Plan
concerning Section 409A. 

Section 14. Non-Transfer of Shareholder Value Award 

No right in or under this Shareholder Value Award is transferable except by operation of
law to a duly appointed guardian of the estate of Grantee or upon the death of the Grantee by
will or the applicable laws of descent and distribution and then only subject to the provisions
of Sections 7 and 8. 

Section 15. Severability and Section Headings 

If one or more of the provisions of this instrument shall be held invalid, illegal or
unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining
provisions shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby and the invalid, illegal or
unenforceable provisions shall be deemed null and void; however, to the extent permissible by
law, any provisions which could be deemed null
and void shall first be construed, interpreted or revised retroactively to permit this
instrument to be construed so as to foster the intent of this Shareholder Value Award and the
2002 Plan. 

The section headings in this instrument are for convenience of reference only and shall not be
deemed a part of, or germane to, the interpretation or construction of this instrument. 

Section 16. Determinations by Committee 

Determinations by the Committee pursuant to any provision of the 2002 Plan, pursuant to
rules, regulations and procedures adopted by the Committee or pursuant to this instrument,
including without limitation the determination of the amount and method of computation of the
Stock Price,
whether to make an exception to the rule of Section 7, or adjustments under Section 2 or
Section 3, shall be final and binding on the Grantee and any Successor Grantee. 

Section 17. Change in Control 

The provisions of Section 12(a)(iii) of the 2002 Plan apply to this Shareholder Value
Award with the following modifications: 

a. 
       
     The only Change in Control event that shall result in a payment under
Section 12(a)(iii) of the 2002 Plan shall be consummation of a change in ownership
of the Company as defined in Section 12(b)(i) of the 2002 Plan (a  Transaction ). 

Page 7 

Eli Lilly
and Company Shareholder Value Award  

b. 
       
     On the date of the consummation of such Transaction, the Grantee will be
paid an amount equal to the product of (a) the Grantee s award opportunity for the
Shareholder Value Award based on the value of Lilly Stock established for the
consideration to be paid to holders of Lilly Stock in the Transaction, and (b) a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days that have elapsed since the
beginning of the Award Period to the date of the consummation of the Transaction
and the denominator of which is the total number of days in the Award Period. The
payment will be deemed to have been made immediately prior to the consummation of
the Transaction in order to allow the Performance Shares
paid to be deemed outstanding and eligible to receive the consideration being paid to
Lilly shareholders in the Transaction. 

Page 8 

Eli Lilly
and Company Shareholder Value Award  

Section 18. Nature of 2002 Plan   Shareholder Value Award 

In accepting this Shareholder Value Award, the Grantee acknowledges that: 

a. 
       
     the 2002 Plan is established voluntarily by Lilly, it is discretionary in
nature and may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by Lilly at any time,
as provided in the 2002 Plan; 

b. 
       
     the Shareholder Value Award is voluntary and occasional and does not create
any contractual or other right to receive future Shareholder Value Awards, or
benefits in lieu
of Shareholder Value Awards even if Shareholder Value Awards have been granted
repeatedly in the past; 

c. 
       
     all decisions with respect to future grants of Shareholder Value Awards, if
any, will be at the sole discretion of Lilly; 

d. 
       
     the Grantee s participation in the 2002 Plan is voluntary; 

e. 
       
     the Shareholder Value Award is an extraordinary item that does not
constitute compensation of any kind for services of any kind rendered to Lilly or
the Employer and which is outside the scope of the Grantee s employment contract,
if any; 

f. 
       
     the Shareholder Value Award is not part of normal or expected compensation
or salary for any purposes, including, but not limited to, calculation of any
severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses,
long-service awards, pension or welfare or retirement benefits or similar payments
and in no event should be
considered as compensation for, or relating in any way to, past services for Lilly or
the Employer; 

g. 
       
     neither the Shareholder Value Award nor any provision of this instrument,
the 2002 Plan or the policies adopted pursuant to the 2002 Plan confer upon the
Grantee any right with respect to employment or continuation of current
employment, and in the event that the Grantee is not an employee of Lilly or any
subsidiary of Lilly, the Shareholder Value Award shall not be interpreted to form
an employment contract or relationship with Lilly or any subsidiary of Lilly; 

h. 
       
     the future value of the underlying Performance Shares is unknown and cannot
be predicted with certainty; 

i. 
       
     the value of any Performance Shares acquired upon expiration of the Award
Period may increase or decrease in value, even below the tax valuation price; 

j. 
       
     no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from
termination of the Shareholder Value Award or from any diminution in value of the
Shareholder Value Award
or Performance Shares acquired upon expiration of the Award Period resulting from
termination of the Grantee s employment by Lilly or the Employer (for any reason 

Page 9 

Eli Lilly
and Company Shareholder Value Award  

whatsoever and whether or not in breach of local labor laws) and the Grantee
irrevocably releases Lilly and the Employer from any such claim that may arise; if,
notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is found by a court of competent
jurisdiction to have arisen, then, by accepting this Shareholder Value Award, the
Grantee shall be deemed irrevocably to have waived his or her entitlement to pursue
such claim; 

k. 
       
     in the event of termination of the Grantee s employment (whether or not in
breach of local labor laws), the Grantee s right to receive Performance Shares
upon expiration of the Award Period will terminate effective as of the date the
Grantee is no longer actively employed (unless one of the adjustments in Section 8
applies) and will not be extended by any notice period mandated under local law
( e.g ., active employment would not include a period of  garden leave  or similar
period pursuant to local law); the Committee shall have the exclusive discretion
to determine when the Grantee is no longer actively employed for purposes of the
Shareholder Value Award; 

l. 
       
     Lilly is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is Lilly
making any recommendations regarding the Grantee s participation in the 2002 Plan,
or the Grantee s acquisition or sale of the underlying Performance Shares; and 

m. 
       
     the Grantee is hereby advised to consult with his or her own personal tax,
legal and financial advisors regarding the Grantee s participation in the 2002
Plan before taking any action related to the 2002 Plan. 

Section 19. Data Privacy Notice and Consent 

The Grantee hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and
transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Grantee s personal data as described in this
Shareholder Value Award
by and among, as applicable, the Employer, Lilly, its subsidiaries and its affiliates for the
exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Grantee s participation in
the 2002 Plan. 

The Grantee understands that Lilly may hold certain personal information about the Grantee,
including, but not limited to, the Grantee s name, home address and telephone number, date of
birth, social insurance number or other identification number, salary, nationality, job title,
any shares of stock or directorships held in Lilly, details of all Shareholder Value Awards or
any other entitlement to shares awarded, canceled, vested, unvested or outstanding in the
Grantee s favor, for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the 2002 Plan
( Data ). The Grantee understands that
Data may be transferred to any third parties assisting in the implementation, administration
and management of the 2002 Plan, that these recipients may be located in the Grantee s country,
or elsewhere, and that the recipient s country may have different data privacy laws and
protections than the Grantee s country. The Grantee authorizes the recipients to receive,
possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the purposes of
implementing, administering and managing the Grantee s participation in the 2002 Plan,
including any requisite transfer of such Data as may be required to a broker, escrow agent or
other third party with whom any shares received upon expiration of the Award Period may be
deposited. The Grantee understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to
implement, administer and manage the Grantee s participation in 

Page 10 

Eli Lilly
and Company Shareholder Value Award  

the 2002 Plan. The Grantee understands that the Grantee may, at any time, request an equity
award transaction statement, request any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the
consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing the Grantee s local human
resources representative. The Grantee understands that refusal or withdrawal of consent may
affect the Grantee s ability to participate in the 2002 Plan. For more information on the
consequences of the Grantee s refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Grantee
understands that the Grantee may contact the Grantee s local human resources representative. 

Section 20. Effective Date 

The effective date of this instrument shall be the date of grant. 

Section 21. Governing Law 

The validity and construction of this Shareholder Value Award shall be governed by the
laws of the State of Indiana, U.S.A. without regard to laws that might cause other law to
govern under applicable principles of conflict of laws. For purposes of litigating any dispute
that arises under this Shareholder Value Award, the parties hereby submit to and consent to the
jurisdiction of the State of Indiana, and agree that such litigation shall be conducted in the
courts of Marion County, Indiana, or the federal courts for the United States for the Southern
District of Indiana ,  and no other courts, where this Shareholder Value Award is granted and/or
to be performed. 

Section 22. Language 

If the Grantee has received this instrument or any other document related to the 2002 Plan
translated into a language other than English and if the translated version is different than
the English version, the English version will control. 

Page 11 

Eli Lilly
and Company Shareholder Value Award  

Section 23. Appendix 

If the Grantee is a non-U.S. resident, his or her participation in the 2002 Plan and this
Shareholder Value Award will be subject to the special terms and conditions set forth in the
appendix for the Grantee s country of residence, if any ( Appendix ). The Appendix constitutes
part of this instrument. 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Lilly has caused this Shareholder Value Award to be executed and granted in
Indianapolis, Indiana, by its proper officer.

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 

By:   

John Lechleiter  

Chairman of the Board and 
Chief Executive Officer  

Page 12 

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.8>
 5
 c55339kexv10w8.htm
 EX-10.8

exv10w8 

Exhibit 10.8 

The Eli Lilly and Company Bonus Plan 

(as amended January 1, 2010) 

TABLE OF CONTENTS

SECTION 1. PURPOSE

1 

SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS

1 

SECTION 3. ADMINISTRATION

6 

SECTION 4. PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN

7 

SECTION 5. DEFINITION AND COMPUTATION OF COMPANY BONUS

7 

SECTION 6. TIME OF PAYMENT

11 

SECTION 7. ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDELINES

11 

SECTION 8. MISCELLANEOUS

11 

SECTION 9. AMENDMENT, SUSPENSION, OR TERMINATION

13 

- i - 

The Eli Lilly and Company Bonus Plan 
(as amended January 1, 2010) 

SECTION 1. PURPOSE 

The purpose of The Eli Lilly and Company Bonus Plan is to encourage and promote eligible employees
to create and deliver innovative pharmaceutical-based health care solutions that enable people to
live longer, healthier and more active lives, to outgrow our competitors through a constant stream
of pharmaceutical innovation, and to materially increase shareholder value. The Plan is designed
to accomplish the following key objectives:

a. 
       
     motivate superior employee performance through the implementation of a
performance-based bonus system for all eligible management employees, United States
employees (including those in Puerto Rico) and other employees as may be designated
from time to time; 

b. 
       
     encourage eligible employees to take greater ownership of the company and
provide  Answers that Matter  daily by creating a direct relationship between key
company measurements and individual bonus payouts; and 

c. 
       
     enable the Company to attract and retain employees that will be instrumental in
driving sustained growth and performance of Eli Lilly and Company by providing a
competitive bonus program that rewards outstanding performance consistent with the
Company s mission, values and increased shareholder value. 

The Plan is intended to satisfy the requirements for providing  performance-based  compensation
under Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.

SECTION 2. DEFINITIONS 

The following words and phrases as used in this Plan will have the following meanings unless a
different meaning is clearly required by the context. Masculine pronouns will refer both to males
and to females:

2.1 
       
      Applicable Year  means the calendar year immediately preceding the year in which
payment of the Company Bonus is payable pursuant to Section 6. For example, the Applicable
Year for 2010 payout is January 1, 2009 through December 31, 2009. 

2.2 
       
      Bonus Target  means the percentage of Participant Earnings for each Participant as
described in Section 5.6(a) below. 

2.3 
       
      Committee  means (i) with respect to the Executive Officers of Lilly, the Compensation
Committee, the members of which will be selected by the Board of Directors of Lilly, from
among its members; and (ii) with respect to all other Eligible Employees, the Compensation
Committee of the Board of Directors or its designee. Each member of the Compensation
Committee will, to the extent deemed necessary or appropriate by the 

- 1 - 

Board of Directors, satisfy the requirements of an  outside director  within the meaning of
Section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code. 

2.4 
       
      Company  means Eli Lilly and Company and its subsidiaries. 

2.5 
       
      Company Bonus  means the amount of bonus compensation payable to a Participant as
described in Section 5 below. Notwithstanding the foregoing, however, the Committee may
determine, in its sole discretion, to reduce the amount of a Participant s Company Bonus if
such Participant becomes eligible to participate in such other bonus program of the Company as
may be specifically designated by the Committee. Such reduction may be by a stated percentage
up to and including 100% of the Company Bonus. 

2.6 
       
      Company Performance Bonus Multiple  means the amount as calculated in Sections 5.3 and
5.4 below. 

2.7 
       
      Disabled  means a Participant who (i) has become eligible for a payment under The
Lilly Extended Disability Plan, assuming eligibility to participate in that plan, or (ii) for
those employees ineligible to participate in The Lilly Extended Disability Plan, has become
otherwise  disabled  under the applicable disability benefit plan or program for the
Participant, or, in the event that there is no such disability benefit plan or program, has
become disabled under applicable local law. 

2.8 
       
      Earnings Per Share (EPS)  means the diluted earnings per share of the Company as
reported in the Company s  Consolidated Statements of Income  in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and Section 3.4 below. 

2.9 
       
      Earnings Per Share Growth (EPS Growth)  means the percentage increase in EPS in the
Applicable Year compared to the prior year. 

a. 
       
     with respect to employees of Lilly, Lilly USA, LLC. or Lilly s Puerto Rican
subsidiaries, a person (1) who is employed as an employee by the Company on a scheduled
basis of twenty (20) or more hours per week and is scheduled to work at least five (5)
months per year; and (2) who is receiving compensation, including temporary illness pay
under Lilly s Illness Pay Program or similar short-term disability program, from the
Company for services rendered as an employee. Notwithstanding anything herein to the
contrary, the term  Eligible Employee  will not include: 

(1) 
       
     a person who has reached Retirement with the Company; 

(2) 
       
     a person who is Disabled; 

(3) 
       
     a person who is a  leased employee  within the meaning of
Section 414(n) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or whose basic

- 2 - 

compensation for services on behalf of the Company is not paid directly by
the Company; 

(4) 
       
     a person who is classified as a  Fixed Duration Employee , as
that term is used by Lilly; 

(5) 
       
     a person who is classified as a special status employee because
his employment status is temporary, seasonal, or otherwise inconsistent with
regular employment status; 

(6) 
       
     a person who is eligible to participate in the Eli Lilly and
Company Premler Rewards Plan, a bonus or incentive plan for eligible employees
of Elanco Animal Health or such other Company bonus or incentive program as may
be specifically designated by the Committee or its designee; or 

(7) 
       
     a person who submits to the Committee in writing a request that
he not be considered eligible for participation in the Plan or is a member of
the Board of Directors of Lilly unless he or she is also an Eligible Employee. 

(8) 
       
     any other category of employees designated by the Committee in
its discretion with respect to any Applicable Year. 

b. 
       
     with respect to those employees who are employed by the Company, but not by
Lilly, Lilly USA, LLC., or a Puerto Rican subsidiary, an employee of the Company
designated by the Committee as a Participant in the Plan with respect to any Applicable
Year. In its discretion, the Committee may designate Participants either on an
individual basis or by determining that all employees in specified job categories,
classifications, levels, subsidiaries or other appropriate classification will be
Participants. 

c. 
       
     Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the term Eligible Employee
will not include any person who is not so recorded on the payroll records of the
Company, including any such person who is subsequently reclassified by a court of law
or regulatory body as a common law employee of the Company. Consistent with the
foregoing, and for purposes of clarification only, the term employee or Eligible
Employee does not include any individual who performs services for the Company as an
independent contractor or under any other non-employee classification. 

2.12 
       
      Lilly  means Eli Lilly and Company. 

2.13 
       
      Lilly Executive Officer  or  Section 162(m) Participant  means a Participant who
has been designated by the Board of Directors of Lilly as an executive officer pursuant to
Rule 3b-7 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. For purposes of this Plan, a
Lilly Executive Officer will be considered a Section 162(m) Participant whether or not he is a
 covered employee  under Section 162(m). 

2.14 
       
      Participant  means an Eligible Employee who is participating in the Plan. 

- 3 - 

2.15 
       
      Participant Earnings  means (A) those amounts described below that are earned during
the portion of the Applicable Year during which the employee is a Participant in the Plan: 

(i) 
       
     regular compensation (including applicable
deferred compensation amounts), overtime, shift premiums and other
forms of additional compensation determined by and paid currently
pursuant to an established formula or procedure; 

(ii) 
       
     salary reduction contributions to The Lilly
Employee 401(k) Plan or elective contributions under any similar
tax-qualified plan that is intended to meet the requirements of
Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code or similar Company
savings program; 

(iii) 
       
     elective contributions to any cafeteria
plan that is intended to meet the requirements of Section 125 of the
Internal Revenue Code or other pre-tax contributions to a similar
Company benefit plan; 

(iv) 
       
     payments made under the terms of Lilly s
Illness Pay Program or other similar Company or government-required
leave program during an Applicable Year to a Participant who is on
approved leave of absence and is receiving one hundred percent (100%)
of his base pay; and 

(v) 
       
     other legally-mandated or otherwise
required pre-tax deductions from a Participant s base salary. 

(B) 
       
     The term  Participant Earnings  does not include: 

(i) 
       
     compensation paid in lieu of earned
vacation; 

(ii) 
       
     amounts contributed to the Retirement Plan
or any other qualified plan, except as provided in clause (A)(ii),
above; 

(iii) 
       
     payments made under the terms of Lilly s
Illness Pay Program or other similar Company or government-required
leave program during an Applicable Year to a Participant who is on
approved leave of absence and is receiving less than the full amount
of his base pay; 

(iv) 
       
     amounts paid under this Plan or other bonus
or incentive program of the Company; 

(v) 
       
     payments made under The Lilly Severance Pay
Plan or any other severance-type benefit (whether company-sponsored
or mandated by law) arising out of or relating to a Participant s
termination of employment; 

(vi) 
       
     payments based upon the discretion of the
Company; 

(vii) 
       
     in the case of a person employed by a
Lilly subsidiary, foreign service, cost of living, or other
allowances that would not be paid were the person employed by Lilly; 

(viii) 
       
     amounts paid as commissions, sales bonuses, or Market Premiums (as
defined under the Retirement Plan); or 

(ix) 
       
     earnings with respect to the exercise of
stock options or vesting of restricted stock. 

- 4 - 

2.16 
       
      Performance Benchmarks  mean the amounts as calculated in Section 5.3 below. The
Performance Benchmarks will be established after considering expected pharmaceutical peer
group performance and based on performance measures as described in Section 5.2. 

2.17 
       
      Plan  means The Eli Lilly and Company Bonus Plan as set forth herein and as hereafter
modified or amended from time to time. The Plan is an incentive compensation program and is
not subject to the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ),
pursuant to Department of Labor Regulation Section 2510.3. 

2.18 
       
      Plant Closing  means the closing of a plant site or other Company location that
directly results in termination of employment. 

2.19 
       
      Reduction in Workforce  means the elimination of a work group, functional or business
unit or other broadly applicable reduction in job positions that directly results in
termination of employment. 

2.20 
       
      Retirement  means the cessation of employment upon the attainment of age fifty-five
with ten years of service (55 and 10), age sixty-five with five years of service (65 and 5) or
at least eighty (80) points, as determined by the provisions of the Retirement Plan as amended
from time to time, assuming eligibility to participate in that plan. For persons who are not
participants in the Retirement Plan, Retirement means the cessation of employment as a retired
employee under the applicable retirement benefit plan or program as provided by the Company or
applicable law. 

2.21 
       
      Retirement Plan  means The Lilly Retirement Plan. 

2.22 
       
      Revenue  means, for any Applicable Year, the consolidated net revenue of the Company
as set forth in the  Statements of Operations  as reported by the Company in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and Section 3.4 below. 

2.23 
       
      Revenue Growth  means the percentage increase in Revenue in the Applicable Year
compared to the prior year. 

2.25 
       
      Service  means the aggregate time of employment of an Eligible Employee by the
Company. 

- 5 - 

SECTION 3. ADMINISTRATION 

3.1 
       
      Committee . The Plan will be administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board
of Directors of Eli Lilly and Company or, if the name of the Compensation Committee is
changed, the Plan will be administered by such successor committee. For all Eligible
Employees other than Lilly Executive Officers, the Compensation Committee may delegate all or
a portion of its responsibilities within its sole discretion by resolution. Any reference in
this Plan to the Committee or its authority will be deemed to include such designees (other
than with respect to Lilly Executive Officers or a member of the Board of Directors or for
purposes of Section 9). 

3.2 
       
      Powers of the Committee . The Committee will have the right to interpret the terms
and provisions of the Plan and to determine any and all questions arising under the Plan,
including, without limitation, the right to remedy possible ambiguities, inconsistencies, or
omissions by a general rule or particular decision. The Committee will have authority to
adopt, amend and rescind rules consistent with the Plan, to make exceptions in particular
cases to the rules of eligibility for participation in the Plan (except with respect to Lilly
Executive Officers), and to delegate authority for approval of participation of any Eligible
Employee except for Lilly Executive Officers or a member of the Board of Directors. The
Committee will take all necessary action to establish annual Performance Benchmarks and
approve the timing of payments, as necessary. 

3.3 
       
      Certification of Results . Before any amount is paid under the Plan, the Committee
will certify in writing the calculation of EPS, EPS Growth, Revenue and Revenue Growth (or
other applicable performance measures) for the Applicable Year and the satisfaction of all
other material terms of the calculation of the Company Performance Bonus Multiple and Company
Bonus. 

3.4 
       
      Adjustments for Significant Events  .  Not later than 90 days after the beginning of an
Applicable Year, the Committee may specify with respect to Company Bonuses for the Applicable
Year that the performance measures described in Section 5.2 will be determined before the
effects of acquisitions, divestitures, restructurings or special charges or gains, changes in
corporate capitalization, accounting changes, and/or events that are treated as extraordinary
items for accounting purposes; provided that such adjustments shall be made only to the extent
permitted by Section 162(m) in the case of Lilly Executive Officers. 

3.5 
       
      Finality of Committee Determinations . Any determination by the Committee of Revenue,
Revenue Growth, EPS, EPS Growth, any other performance measure, Performance Benchmarks and the
level and entitlement to Company Bonus, and any interpretation, rule, or decision adopted by
the Committee under the Plan or in carrying out or administering the Plan, will be final and
binding for all purposes and upon all interested persons, their heirs, and personal
representatives. The Committee may rely conclusively on determinations made by Lilly and its
auditors to determine Revenue, Revenue Growth, EPS, EPS Growth and related information for
administration of the Plan, whether such information is determined by the Company, auditors or
a third-party vendor engaged specifically to provide such information to the Company. This 

- 6 - 

subsection is not intended
to limit the Committee s power, to the extent it deems proper in its discretion, to take any
action permitted under the Plan. 

SECTION 4. PARTICIPATION IN THE PLAN 

4.1 
       
      General Rule . Only Eligible Employees may participate in and receive payments under
the Plan. 

4.2 
       
      Commencement of Participation . An Eligible Employee will become a Participant in the
Plan as follows: (i) in the case of Eligible Employees under Section 2.11(a), on the date on
which the individual completes at least one hour of employment as an Eligible Employee within
the United States or Puerto Rico, and (ii) in the case of Eligible Employees under Section
2.11(b), on the date as of which the Committee has designated the individual to become a
Participant in the Plan. 

4.3 
       
      Termination of Participation . An Eligible Employee will cease to be a Participant
upon termination of employment with the Company for any reason, or at the time he otherwise
ceases to be an Eligible Employee under the Plan. 

SECTION 5. DEFINITION AND COMPUTATION OF COMPANY BONUS 

5.1 
       
      Computation for Eligible Employees . Company Bonus amounts will depend significantly
on Company performance as well as Participants  individual performance for certain Eligible
Employees. As more specifically described below, a Participant s Company Bonus is calculated
by multiplying the Participant s Bonus Target by his Participant Earnings and the Company
Performance Bonus Multiple. For eligible management and Lilly employees and those
Participants designated by the Committee, individual performance will also impact the Company
Bonus calculation, as described in Section 5.6(c) below. Company Bonuses are paid out to
eligible Participants in the manner provided below. 

5.2 
       
      Establishment of Performance Measures . Not later than 90 days after the beginning of
each Applicable Year, the Committee will, in its sole discretion, determine appropriate
performance measures for use in calculating Company Bonus amounts. These performance measures
may include Revenue Growth, EPS Growth, growth in net income, return on assets, return on
equity, total shareholder return, EVA, MVA or any of the foregoing before the effect of
acquisitions, divestitures, accounting changes, restructurings and special charges or gains
(determined according to objective criteria established by the Committee not later than ninety
(90) days after the beginning of the Applicable Year). Unless otherwise specified in a
written resolution adopted by the Committee for the Applicable Year, the Committee will use
EPS Growth and Revenue Growth, in each case before the effect of acquisitions, divestitures,
accounting changes, restructurings and special charges or gains (determined as described
above) as performance measures. 

5.3 
       
      Establishment of Performance Benchmarks . Not later than 90 days after the beginning
of each Applicable Year, the Committee will establish Performance Benchmarks for the  

- 7 - 

Company
based on the performance measures described in Section 5.2 above. Unless otherwise specified
in a written resolution adopted by the Committee for the Applicable Year, the Performance
Benchmarks will correspond with EPS Growth and Revenue Growth amounts for the Applicable Year,
established after considering expected pharmaceutical peer group performance. The Performance
Benchmarks will correspond to EPS Growth and Revenue Growth multiples equal to 1.0. The
Committee will also adopt a formula that will determine the extent to which the performance
measure multiples will vary as the Company s actual results vary from the Performance
Benchmarks. Notwithstanding the foregoing, each performance measure multiple established
above will be no less than 0.0 or greater than 2.0 in any Applicable Year, regardless of the
Company s actual results. 

5.4 
       
      Company Performance Bonus Multiple . Unless otherwise specified in a written
resolution adopted by the Committee not later than 90 days after the beginning of the
Applicable Year, the Company Performance Bonus Multiple is equal to the product of the EPS
Growth multiple and 0.75 plus the product of the Revenue Growth multiple and 0.25 (i.e.,
Company Performance Bonus Multiple = (EPS Growth multiple * 0.75)   (Revenue Growth multiple *
0.25)). 

5.5 
       
      Company Performance Bonus Multiple Threshold and Ceiling : Notwithstanding Sections
5.3 and 5.4, the Company Performance Bonus Multiple will not be less than 0.25 or greater than
2.0 in an Applicable Year. If the calculations described in Sections 5.3 and 5.4 above result
in a number that is less than 0.25, the Company Performance Bonus Multiple will equal 0.25 for
the Applicable Year. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may reduce the Company
Performance Bonus Multiple (including but not limited to a reduction to below 0.25) for some
or all Eligible Employees, in its discretion. 

5.6 
       
      Participant Company Bonus . 

a. 
       
      Bonus Target . Not later than 90 days after the beginning of the
Applicable Year, the Bonus Target for each Participant, whether such Participant is
designated on an individual basis or by specified job categories, classifications,
levels, subsidiaries or other appropriate classification, will be determined by the
Committee on a basis that takes into consideration a Participant s pay grade level and
job responsibilities. The Bonus Target for each Participant for the Applicable Year
will be expressed as a percentage of Participant Earnings as of December 31 of the
Applicable Year. No later than early in the Applicable Year, each Participant will
receive information regarding the Participant s Bonus Target. In the event that a
Participant s pay grade level changes during the Applicable Year (e.g., because of
promotion, demotion or otherwise), the Participant s Bonus Target will be prorated
based on the Bonus Target applicable to each pay grade level (with related job
responsibilities) and the percentage of time that the Participant is employed at each
pay grade level during the Applicable Year. 

b. 
       
      Company Bonus Calculation . Except as described in Section 5.6(c)
below, a Participant s Company Bonus will equal the product of the Company Performance
Bonus Multiple and the Participant s Bonus Target and the Participant s Earnings. 

c. 
       
      Adjustment for Performance Multiplier, if Applicable . 

- 8 - 

Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, all eligible management employees
(except Lilly Executive Officers), United States employees and other employees as may be
designated from time to time by the Committee are subject to individual performance
multipliers. For all such Participants subject to an individual performance multiplier,
the amount calculated in Section 5.6(b) above will be adjusted based on the
Participant s performance rating at the end of the Applicable Year. Not later than 90
days after the beginning of the Applicable Year, the Committee will determine applicable
performance multipliers or performance ranges for the applicable performance rating
system in effect for the Participant. For each such Participant, the performance rating
will be determined by the Participant s supervision.

In the event that a Participant does not receive a year-end performance rating, but is otherwise
eligible for a Company Bonus, the amount calculated in Section 5.6(b) will be multiplied by 1.0 so
that the Participant s actual Company Bonus will be the amount calculated in Section 5.6(b) above.

5.7 
       
      Conditions on Company Bonus . Payment of any Company Bonus is neither guaranteed nor
automatic. A Participant s Company Bonus is not considered to be any form of compensation,
wages, or benefits, unless and until paid. 

5.8 
       
      Required Employment . Except as provided below in this Section 5.8 or as otherwise
designated by the Committee, if a Participant is not employed by the Company on the last day
of the Applicable Year, or is otherwise not an Eligible Employee on that date, the Participant
is not entitled to any Company Bonus payment under this Plan for that Applicable Year. 

a. 
       
      Leaves of Absence . A Participant who, on the last day of the
Applicable Year, is on approved leave of absence under the Family and Medical Leave
Act of 1993, military leave under the Uniformed Services Employment and
Reemployment Rights Act, or such other approved leave of absence will be considered
to be an Eligible Employee on that date for purposes of this Plan. 

b. 
       
      Transfer . An employee who is a Participant in this Plan for a
portion of the Applicable Year and then transfers to a position within the Company
in which he is ineligible to participate in this Plan, but who remains employed by
the Company on the last day of the Applicable Year, will be treated as satisfying
the last-day-of-Applicable Year requirement for purposes of this Plan. In that
event, his Company Bonus will be based on his Participant Earnings for the portion
of the Applicable Year in which the employee was a Participant in the Plan. 

c. 
       
      Retirement, Disability or Death . Except as described below, a
Participant who was an Eligible Employee for some portion of the Applicable Year
and then takes
Retirement, becomes and remains Disabled through the end of the Applicable Year, or
dies during the Applicable Year will be considered to satisfy the
last-day-of-Applicable-Year requirement described in this Section 5.8 for purposes
of this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Eligible Employee in the United
States who has not received a year-end performance rating and (1) is on employment
probation (or its equivalent outside the United States) for 

- 9 - 

unsatisfactory
performance and takes Retirement in lieu of a termination of employment; or (2)
takes Retirement in lieu of termination of employment because of an immediately
terminable offense (e.g. absence of three days without notice, insubordination,
violation of substance abuse policy, possession of firearms, misconduct) will not be
considered to satisfy the last day of Applicable Year requirement. 

d. 
       
      Reallocation, Medical Reassignment, Plant Closing or Reduction in
Workforce . A Participant who was an Eligible Employee for some portion of the
Applicable Year and whose employment is terminated as a result of his failure to
locate a position following his reallocation or medical reassignment in the United
States, or a Plant Closing or Reduction in Workforce will be considered to satisfy
the last-day-of-Applicable Year requirement described in this Section 5.8 for
purposes of this Plan. The Committee or its designee s determination regarding
whether a Participant s termination is a direct result of either a Plant Closing or
a Reduction in Workforce will be final and binding. 

e. 
       
      Notice of Resignation . In addition, a Participant who submits
a notice of resignation from employment with the Company prior to the end of the
Applicable Year and whose effective date of resignation is two (2) weeks or less
from the date of notice of resignation will be considered employed by the Company
for purposes of this Plan until the end of his specified notice period. 

5.9 
       
      New Participants . If an Eligible Employee began participation in the Plan during an
Applicable Year and is eligible for a Company Bonus, his Company Bonus will be based on
Participant Earnings earned after the employee became a Participant. An Eligible Employee who
became assigned to a position eligible for a Company Bonus at any time other than the first of
the month will become a Participant the first of the following month. 

5.10 
       
      Section 162(m) Requirements, Bonus Maximum . In the case of Lilly Executive Officers,
all determinations necessary for computing a Company Bonus for the Applicable Year, including
establishment of all components of EPS, EPS Growth, Revenue, Revenue Growth, Company
Performance Bonus Multiple and Bonus Target percentages, shall be made by the Committee not
later than 90 days after the commencement of the Applicable Year. As and to the extent
required by Section 162(m), the terms of a Company Bonus for a Lilly Executive Officer must
state, in terms of an objective formula or standard, the method of computing the amount of
compensation payable to the Lilly Executive Officer, and must preclude discretion to increase
the amount of compensation payable that would otherwise be due under the terms of the award.
Notwithstanding anything elsewhere in the Plan to the contrary, the maximum amount of the
Company Bonus that may be payable to a Lilly Executive Officer in respect of any Applicable
Year will be $7 million. 

- 10 - 

SECTION 6. TIME OF PAYMENT 

6.1 
       
      General Rule . Payment under the Plan will be made in the year following the
Applicable Year on or prior to March 15 of such year. 

6.2 
       
      Terminated Employee . Except as provided in Section 5.8 above, in the event an
Eligible Employee s employment with the Company ends for any reason prior to the last day of
the Applicable Year, he will not receive any Company Bonus for the Applicable Year. 

6.3 
       
      Deceased Eligible Employee . In the event an Eligible Employee dies before payment
under the Plan is made, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, authorize the Company to
pay to his personal representative or beneficiary an amount not to exceed the amount
established by the Committee to reflect the payment accrued at the date of death. Any such
payment would be paid consistent with the timing requirements described in subsection 6.1
above. 

SECTION 7. ADMINISTRATIVE GUIDELINES 

7.1 
       
      Establishment and Amendment by the Committee . The Committee may establish objective
and nondiscriminatory written guidelines for administering those provisions of the Plan that
expressly provide for the determination of eligibility, Company Bonus or benefits on the basis
of rules established by the Committee. The Committee may, from time to time, amend or
supplement the administrative guidelines established in accordance with this subsection 7.1.
The administrative guidelines established or amended in accordance with this subsection 7.1
will not be effective to the extent that they materially increase the Plan s liability, or to
the extent that they are inconsistent with, or purport to amend, any provision of the Plan set
forth in a document other than such administrative guidelines. 

7.2. 
       
      Amendment by Board of Directors . Any administrative guidelines established by the
Committee pursuant to subsection 7.1 may be amended or revoked by the Board of Directors,
either prospectively or retroactively, in accordance with the general amendment procedures set
forth in section 9 below. 

SECTION 8. MISCELLANEOUS 

8.1 
       
      No Vested Right . No employee, participant, beneficiary, or other individual will
have a vested right to a Company Bonus or any part thereof until payment is made to him under
Section 6. 

8.2 
       
      No Employment Rights . No provision of the Plan or any action taken by the Company,
the Board of Directors of the Company, or the Committee will give any person any right to be
retained in the employ of the Company. The right and power of the Company to
dismiss or discharge any Participant for any reason or no reason, with or without notice, is
specifically reserved. 

8.3 
       
      No Adjustments . After the certification of the calculation of EPS, EPS Growth,
Revenue, Revenue Growth and any other material terms of the calculation of the Company
Performance Bonus Multiple and Company Bonus for the Applicable Year as described  

- 11 - 

in Section
3.3 above, no adjustments will be made to reflect any subsequent change in accounting, the
effect of federal, state, or municipal taxes later assessed or determined, or otherwise.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company reserves the right to and, in appropriate cases,
will, seek restitution of any Company Bonus awarded to a Lilly Executive Officer if: 

a. 
       
     The amount of the Company Bonus was calculated based upon the
achievement of certain financial results that were subsequently the subject of
a restatement of all or a portion of the Company s financial statements; 

b. 
       
     The Lilly Executive Officer engaged in intentional misconduct
that caused or partially caused the need for such a restatement; and 

c. 
       
     The amount of the Company Bonus that would have been awarded to
the Lilly Executive Officer had the financial results been properly reported
would have been lower than the amount actually awarded. 

This subsection is not intended to limit the Company s power to take such action as it deems
necessary to remedy the misconduct, prevent its recurrence and, if appropriate, based on all
relevant facts and circumstances, punish the wrongdoer in a manner it deems appropriate. 

8.4 
       
      Other Representations . Nothing contained in this Plan, and no action taken pursuant
to its provisions, will create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary
relationship between the Company and any employee, participant, beneficiary, legal
representative, or any other person. Although Participants generally have no right to any
payment from this Plan, to the extent that any Participant acquires a right to receive
payments from the Company under the Plan, such right will be no greater than the right of an
unsecured general creditor of the Company. All payments to be made hereunder will be paid
from the general funds of the Company and no special or separate fund will be established, and
no segregation of assets will be made, to assure payment of such amount. 

8.5 
       
      Tax Withholding . The Company will make such provisions and take such steps as it may
deem necessary or appropriate for the withholding of all federal, state, local, and other
taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to Company Bonus payments under the Plan,
including, but not limited to, deducting the amount required to be withheld from the amount of
cash otherwise payable under the Plan, or from salary or any other amount then or thereafter
payable to an employee, Participant, beneficiary, or legal representative. 

8.6 
       
      Currency . The Company Bonus will be based on the currency in which the highest
portion of base pay is regularly paid. The Committee will determine the appropriate foreign
exchange conversion methodology in its discretion. 

8.7 
       
      Effect of Plan on other Company plans . Nothing contained in this Plan is intended to
amend, modify, terminate, or rescind other benefit or compensation plans established or
maintained by the Company. Whether and to what extent a Participant s Company

- 12 - 

Bonus is taken
into account under any other plan will be determined solely in accordance with the terms of
such plan. 

8.8 
       
      Construction . This Plan and all the rights thereunder will be governed by, and
construed in accordance with, the laws of the state of Indiana, without reference to the
principles of conflicts of law thereof. 

8.9 
       
      Notice . Any notice to be given to the Company or Committee pursuant to the
provisions of the Plan will be in writing and directed to Secretary, Eli Lilly and Company,
Lilly Corporate Center, Indianapolis, IN 46285. 

SECTION 9. AMENDMENT, SUSPENSION, OR TERMINATION 

The Board of Directors of the Company will have the right to amend, modify, suspend, revoke, or
terminate the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time and without notice, by written resolution of
the Board of Directors. The Committee also will have the right to amend the Plan, except that the
Committee may not amend this Section 9. Solely to the extent deemed necessary or advisable by the
Board (or the Committee) for purposes of complying with Section 162(m), the Board (or the
Committee) may seek the approval by the Company s stockholders of the Plan or any amendments to the
Plan or any aspect of the Plan or Plan amendments. Any such approval shall be obtained in a
separate vote of stockholders, with approval by a majority of the votes cast on the issue,
including abstentions to the extent abstentions are counted as voting under applicable state law
and the Articles of Incorporation and By-laws of the Company. To the extent deemed necessary or
advisable by the Board of Directors to comply with Section 162(m), the material terms of the
performance measures used in calculating Company Bonus amounts will be disclosed to and reapproved
by the stockholders of the Company no later than the Company s 2014 annual meeting.

- 13 - 

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.12>
 6
 c55339kexv10w12.htm
 EX-10.12

exv10w12 

Exhibit 10.12

Lilly letterhead 

November 11, 2009

Personal and Confidential   

Steven M. Paul, M.D. 
Executive Vice President-Science and Technology 
Eli Lilly and Company 
Lilly Corporate Center 
Indianapolis, IN 46285

Re: Exit Agreement 

Dear Steve:

As we ve discussed and recently announced, Eli Lilly and Company ( Lilly ) has hired Dr. Jan
Lundberg to assume the role of Executive Vice President, Science and Technology, reporting to John
C. Lechleiter, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Lilly. Accordingly, we have
discussed your departure from Lilly and the transition of your current responsibilities. You and
Lilly acknowledge and agree that this agreement is motivated solely by the desire to part ways on
amicable terms and accommodate a smooth transition and that by carrying out the terms of this
agreement, neither you nor Lilly admit any wrongful action or any liability to the other.

Based on Lilly s decision to hire Dr. Lundberg at this time to assume the Executive Vice President,
Science and Technology role, you and Lilly have agreed that you will retire from Lilly effective
March 1, 2010. Because of the importance of effecting a smooth transition of your responsibilities
to Dr. Lundberg and the disruption this transition timing has caused on your individual retirement
planning, Lilly has agreed to provide the following onetime payment to you so long as you remain
employed with Lilly through February 28, 2010 and sign (and do not revoke) the release agreement
described below:

Onetime Discretionary Payment . Lilly agrees to pay you a lump sum payment equal to
two million dollars ($2,000,000), less all applicable taxes. Such payment will be made to
you within thirty (30) days of your departure from Lilly.

Please note that you will not be entitled to any special equity awards or equity treatment as a
result of this arrangement and you will forfeit the restricted stock grant of 5,000 shares that was
provided to you on or about December 18, 2000. Any other outstanding unvested equity awards that
you have received will vest immediately upon your retirement from Lilly and any payouts will be
made in accordance with the terms of those grants. In addition, as referenced in your letter of
understanding dated September 15, 2004, which is incorporated herein by reference, upon your
retirement you will be entitled to ten (10) years of benefit service credit in addition to your
actual service with Lilly because your employment will be terminated for reasons other than a
disciplinary termination (as described in that letter). Such service would be used to calculate
your retirement benefit only (provided through the Lilly Retirement Plan and the Lilly Excess
Benefit Plan (Retirement)); this additional service credit does not apply to other benefits.

Steven M. Paul, M.D. 
November 12, 2009 
Page 2

Consistent with company policy, you will be required to sign (and not revoke) a Release Agreement
in the form provided to you by Lilly within the timeframe described therein as a condition for
receiving the payment described above.

If you have any questions, please call me at  phone number omitted .

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY 

By:   

 /s/ Susan
Mahony 

Susan Mahony, Ph.D.  

Sr. Vice President, Human Resources  

</EX-10.12>

<EX-12>
 7
 c55339kexv12.htm
 EX-12

exv12 

EXHIBIT 12. STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS (LOSS) TO FIXED CHARGES

Eli Lilly and Company and Subsidiaries  
(Dollars in millions)

N/M   Not Meaningful 

1 
       
     Interest is based upon interest expense reported as such in the consolidated income
statement and does not include any interest related to unrecognized tax benefits, which is
included in income tax expense. 

2 
       
     For such ratio, earnings were $1,307.6 million less than fixed charges. The loss
for the year ended December 31, 2008 included special charges related to the EDPA settlement of
$1,477.0 million and acquired in-process research and development expense of $4,685.4 million
associated with the ImClone acquisition, as described in greater detail in the notes to the
accompanying consolidated financial statements. 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 8
 c55339kexv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

Exhibit 21   List of Subsidiaries   Affiliates 

The following are the subsidiaries and affiliated corporations of the Company at December 31, 2009 
Certain subsidiaries have been omitted as they are not significant in the aggregate. 

State or Jurisdiction  

of Incorporation  

or Organization  

ELI LILLY AND COMPANY

Indiana 

Eli Lilly International Corporation

Indiana 

Lilly HK Finance I Limited

Hong Kong 

Lilly HK Finance II Limited

Hong Kong 

Eli Lilly Funding Partnership

Hong Kong 

Eli Lilly Funding II Partnership

Hong Kong 

Eli Lilly Holdings Ltd.

United Kingdom 

Eli Lilly Group Limited

United Kingdom 

Eli Lilly Group Pension Trustees Limited

United Kingdom 

Eli Lilly and Company Limited

United Kingdom 

Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Trustees Limited

Ireland 

Lilly Pharma Holding GmbH

Germany 

Lilly Deutschland GmbH

Germany 

Lilly Pharma Fertigung   Distribution GmbH

Germany 

Lilly Pharma Produ ktion GmbH   Co. KG

Germany 

Eli Lilly Ges.m.b.H.

Austria 

Lilly GmbH

Germany 

Eli Lilly and Company (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

ELCO Insurance Company Limited

Bermuda 

Lilly Ilac Ticaret Limited Sirketi

Turkey 

Eli Lilly Interamerica, Inc.

Indiana 

Eli Lilly do Brasil Limitada

Brazil 

Eli Lilly Interamerica Inc., y Compania Limitada

Chile 

ELCO International Sales Corporation

U.S. Virgin Islands 

ICOS Corporation

Washington 

Eli Lilly Finance, S.A.

Switzerland 

Lilly Ventures Fund I LLC

Delaware 

Lilly Ventures Management Company LLC

Delaware 

Lilly Global Services, Inc.

Indiana 

Applied Molecular Evolution, Inc.

Delaware 

AME Torreview LLC

Delaware 

Lilly USA, LLC

Indiana 

Lilly USA, Corp.

Indiana 

Eli Lilly USA, LLC

Indiana 

Eli Lilly Funding Ltd.

Hong Kong 

Eli Lilly Holding Company Ltd.

United Kingdom 

SGX Pharmaceuticals, Inc.

Delaware 

Eli Lilly Spain Holding ETVE, S.L.

Spain 

Eli Lilly Nederland Holding B.V.

Netherlands 

Eli Lilly and Company (Tawian), Inc.

Taiwan 

Eli Lilly de Centro America, S.A.

Guatemala 

Eli Lilly y Compania de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Eli Lilly Industries, Inc.

Delaware 

del Sol Financial Services, Inc.

British Virgin Islands 

Lilly del Caribe, Inc.

Cayman Islands 

Eli Lilly Asia, Inc.

Delaware 

Eli Lilly Australia Pty. Limited

Australia 

Eli Lilly and Company (N.Z.) Limited

New Zealand 

Eli Lilly (NZ) Staff Benefits Custodian Limited

New Zealand 

Eli Lilly de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.

Mexico 

Lilly Singapore Centre for Drug Discovery Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Hypnion, Inc.

Delaware 

State or Jurisdiction  

of Incorporation  

or Organization  

Ivy Animal Health, Inc.

Delaware 

ELCO Management, Inc.

Delaware 

E L Management LLC

Delaware / Canada 

Eli Lilly Canada Inc.

Canada 

Lilly Holdings, LLC

Delaware 

Lilly Holdings GmbH

Austria 

Eli Lilly S.A.

Switzerland 

ImClone LLC

Delaware 

ImClone Systems Corporation

Delaware 

EndoClone Incorporated

Delaware 

ImClone Systems International GmbH

Germany 

ImClone GmbH

Switzerland 

Eli Lilly Export S.A.

Switzerland 

Eli Lilly (Suisse) S.A.

Switzerland 

Eli Lilly Vostok S.A., Geneva

Switzerland 

Eli Lilly Trading S.A.

Switzerland 

Lilly Cayman Holdings

Cayman Islands 

Eli Lilly International Tradi ng (Shan ghai) Co. Ltd.

China 

GEMS Services S.A.

Belgium 

Eli Lilly Suzhou Pharmaceutical Co. Ltd.

China 

Eli Lilly Nederland B.V.

Netherlands 

Lilly France S.A.S .

France 

Eli Lilly Benelux S.A.

Belgium 

Eli Lilly Italia S.p.A .

Italy 

Dista -Produtos Quimicos   Farmaceuticos, LDA

Portugal 

Lilly -Portugal, Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.

Portugal 

Vital Pharma Productos Farmaceuticos

Portugal 

Greenfield -Produtos Farmaceuticos, Lda.

Portugal 

Elanco-Valquimica, S. A.

Spain 

Dista, S .A .

Spain 

Spaly Bioquimica, S. A.

Spain 

Irisfarma S. A.

Spain 

Lilly S .A .

Spain 

Eli Lilly Nigeria Ltd.

Nigeria 

Eli Lilly B-H d.o.o.

Bosnia 

Eli Lilly CR s.r.o .

Czech Republic 

Eli Lilly Egypt, S.A.E .

Egypt 

ELCO for Trade and Marketing , S.A.E.

Egypt 

Pharmaserve-Lilly S.A.C.I.

Greece 

Pharmabrand, S.A.I.C.

Greece 

Lilly Hungaria KFT

Hungary 

Eli Lilly (Philippines), Incorporated

Philippines 

Eli Lilly and Company (India) Pvt. Ltd.

India 

Eli Lilly Israel Ltd.

Israel 

Eli Lilly Japan K.K.

Japan 

Lilly Korea Ltd.

Korea 

Elanco Animal Health, Korea, Ltd.

Korea 

Eli Lilly (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd.

Malaysia 

Eli Lilly Pakistan (Pvt.) Ltd.

Pakistan 

Eli Lilly Polska Sp.z.o.o. (Ltd.)

Poland 

Eli Lilly (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.

Singapore 

Vanthys Pharmaceutical Development Private Limited

India 

Lilly-NUS Centre for Clinical Pharmacology

Singapore 

Eli Lilly (S.A.) (Proprietary) Limited

South Africa 

Eli Lilly y Compania de Venezuela, S.A.

Venezuela 

Eli Lilly Regional Operations GmbH

Austria 

Andean Technical Operations Center

Peru 

Eli Lilly Asian Operations, Limited

Hong Kong 

Dista Ilac Ticaret Ltd. Sti.

Turkey 

Eli Lilly Slovakia s.r.o.

Slovakia 

State or Jurisdiction  

of Incorporation  

or Organization  

Eli Lilly Romania SRL

Romania 

UAB Eli Lilly Lietuva

Lithuania 

Eli Lilly Hrvatska d.o.o.

Croatia 

Lilly Pharma Ltd.

Russia 

PT. Eli Lilly Indonesia

Indonesia 

Eli Lilly European Clinical Trial Services S.A.

Belgium 

Eli Lilly farmacevtska druzba, d.o.o.

Slovenia 

Elanco Trustees Limited

Ireland 

Kinsale Financial Services, Ltd.

Ireland 

ELGO Insurance Company Limited

Bermuda 

Eli Lilly Services, Inc.

British Virgin Islands 

Eli Lilly (B.V.I.) Holding Company Unlimited

British Virgin Islands 

Eli Lilly Danmark A/S

Denmark 

OY Eli Lilly Finland AB

Finland 

Eli Lilly Norge A.S.

Norway 

Eli Lilly Sweden AB

Sweden 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 9
 c55339kexv23.htm
 EX-23

exv23 

EXHIBIT 23

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement (Form S-3 Nos. 33-58466,
333-35248, 333-106478; and Form S-8 Nos. 33-37341, 33-50783, 33-56141, 333-02021, 333-62015,
333-66113, 333-90397, 333-70308, 333-104057) of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries and in the
related Prospectus of our reports dated February 22, 2010, with respect to the consolidated
financial statements of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries and the effectiveness of internal
control over financial reporting of Eli Lilly and Company and subsidiaries, included in this Annual
Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended December 31, 2009.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

Indianapolis, Indiana 
February 22, 2010

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 c55339kexv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1   Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D., Chairman of the Board,
President, and Chief Executive Officer

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D., Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer,
certify that:

1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Eli Lilly and Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a. 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b. 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; 

c. 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

d. 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a. 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b. 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 22, 2010

By:

/s/ John C. Lechleiter

John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D.

Chairman of the Board, President, and 
Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 c55339kexv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2   Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Derica W. Rice, Executive Vice President, Global
Services, and Chief Financial Officer

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Derica W. Rice, Executive Vice President, Global Services, and Chief Financial Officer, certify
that:

1. I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Eli Lilly and Company;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this
report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations, and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

a. 
       
     Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and
procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

b. 
       
     Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control
over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles; 

c. 
       
     Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation;
and 

d. 
       
     Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s
fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is
reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting; and 

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

a. 
       
     All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 

b. 
       
     Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have
a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:
February 22, 2010

By:

/s/ Derica W. Rice

Derica W. Rice

Executive Vice President, Global Services
and Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 12
 c55339kexv32.htm
 EX-32

exv32 

EXHIBIT 32   Section 1350 Certification

Pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (subsections (a) and (b) of section 1350,
chapter 63 of title 18, United States Code), each of the undersigned officers of Eli Lilly and
Company, an Indiana corporation (the  Company ), does hereby certify that, to the best of his
knowledge:

The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the  Form 10-K ) of the
Company fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934 and information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects,
the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.

Date
February 22, 2010

/s/ John C. Lechleiter

John C. Lechleiter, Ph.D.

Chairman of the Board, President, and 
     Chief Executive Officer 

Date
February 22, 2010

/s/ Derica W. Rice

Derica W. Rice

Executive Vice President, Global Services and 
     Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 13
 lly-20091231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 14
 lly-20091231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 15
 lly-20091231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 lly-20091231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 lly-20091231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

