<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110301_10-K_edgar_data_1467858_0001193125-11-051462_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>11620572</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1537830</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>8297956</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>444</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-11-051462.hdr.sgml : 20110301
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110301115653
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-11-051462
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		15
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110301
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110301

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			General Motors Co
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001467858
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES [3711]
		IRS NUMBER:				270756180
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-34960
		FILM NUMBER:		11649854

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		300 RENAISSANCE CENTER
		CITY:			DETROIT
		STATE:			MI
		ZIP:			48265-3000
		BUSINESS PHONE:		313.556.5000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		300 RENAISSANCE CENTER
		CITY:			DETROIT
		STATE:			MI
		ZIP:			48265-3000

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 CFbZbpqhZWM1qAGEajHyWuCYOUAUKuqEV7IIWGM115ywCh29YTyWhpASeAUvsjYX
 4aLa7Kd0E+F1fq5F0vGfvA==

 0001193125-11-051462.txt : 20110301

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, DC 20549-1004    
   Form 10-K        
 
   For the year ended December 31, 2010        OR        
 
   For the transition period from              to
                    Commission file number 001-34960
       GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY        (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)        
 
   Registrant s telephone number, including area code        (313) 556-5000        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of
the Act:        

Title of Each Class    
     
     Name of Each Exchange on   
   which Registered     
 
  Common Stock  
     
  New York Stock Exchange/Toronto Stock Exchange   
 
  4.75% Series B Mandatory Convertible Junior Preferred Stock  
     
  New York Stock Exchange    
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act: None    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.  Yes       No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
Act.  Yes       No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.  Yes       No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its company Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405
of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).  Yes       No           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller
reporting company. See definition of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  small reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):   
  Large accelerated filer       Accelerated filer       Non-accelerated filer       Smaller reporting company        
  Do not check if smaller reporting company      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).  Yes       No           The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant (assuming only for purposes of this computation that directors and executive officers may be affiliates) was
approximately $55.2 billion on December 31, 2010      As of February 15, 2011 the number of shares outstanding of common
stock was 1,560,743,059 shares.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE    
  Portions of the registrant s definitive Proxy Statement related to the Annual Stockholders Meeting to be filed subsequently are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.           

Table of Contents  

      INDEX    

Page    
 
    PART I      
 
    Item 1.   
     
   Business   
      
  1   
 
    Item 1A.   
     
     Risk Factors    
      
  26   
 
    Item 1B.   
     
     Unresolved Staff Comments    
      
  39   
 
    Item 2.   
     
     Properties    
      
  39   
 
    Item 3.   
     
     Legal Proceedings    
      
  40   
 
    Item 4.   
     
     Removed and Reserved    
      
  43   
 
    PART II      
 
    Item 5.   
     
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
 Securities    
      
  44   
 
    Item 6.   
     
     Selected Financial Data    
      
  47   
 
    Item 7.   
     
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    
      
  49   
 
    Item 7A.   
     
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    
      
  134   
 
    Item 8.   
     
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    
      
  142   

Consolidated Statements of Operations    
      
  142   

Consolidated Balance Sheets    
      
  143   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
  144   

Consolidated Statements of Equity (Deficit)    
      
  146   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
  148   

Note 1.   
      
     Nature of Operations    
      
  148   

Note 2.   
      
     Chapter 11 Proceedings and the 363 Sale    
      
  148   

Note 3.   
      
     Basis of Presentation    
      
  167   

Note 4.   
      
     Significant Accounting Policies    
      
  169   

Note 5.   
      
     Acquisition and Disposal of Businesses    
      
  185   

Note 6.   
      
     Finance Receivables, net    
      
  190   

Note 7.   
      
     Securitizations    
      
  192   

Note 8.   
      
     Marketable Securities    
      
  193   

Note 9.   
      
     Inventories    
      
  194   

Note 10.   
      
     Equipment on Operating Leases, net    
      
  194   

Note 11.   
      
     Equity in Net Assets of Nonconsolidated Affiliates    
      
  195   

Note 12.   
      
     Property, net    
      
  201   

Note 13.   
      
     Goodwill    
      
  202   

Note 14.   
      
     Intangible Assets, net    
      
  203   

Note 15.   
      
     Restricted Cash and Marketable Securities    
      
  204   

Note 16.   
      
     Other Assets    
      
  205   

Note 17.   
      
     Variable Interest Entities    
      
  206   

Note 18.   
      
     Accrued Liabilities, Other Liabilities and Deferred Income Taxes    
      
  211   

Note 19.   
      
     Short-Term and Long-Term Debt    
      
  212   

Note 20.   
      
     Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits    
      
  220   

Note 21.   
      
     Derivative Financial Instruments and Risk Management    
      
  246   

Note 22.   
      
     Commitments and Contingencies    
      
  253   

Note 23.   
      
     Income Taxes    
      
  263   

Note 24.   
      
     Fair Value Measurements    
      
  269   

Note 25.   
      
     Restructuring and Other Initiatives    
      
  275   

Note 26.   
      
     Impairments    
      
  280   

Note 27.   
      
     Other Automotive Expenses, net    
      
  283   

Note 28.   
      
     Interest Income and Other Non-Operating Income, net    
      
  283   

Note 29.   
      
     Stockholders  Equity (Deficit) and Noncontrolling Interests    
      
  283   

Note 30.   
      
     Earnings (Loss) Per Share    
      
  288   

Note 31.   
      
     Stock Incentive Plans    
      
  290   

Note 32.   
      
     Transactions with Ally Financial    
      
  293   

Note 33.   
      
     Transactions with MLC    
      
  297   

Note 34.   
      
     Supplementary Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)    
      
  299   

Note 35.   
      
     Segment Reporting    
      
  301    

Table of Contents  

Page    

Note 36.   
      
     Supplemental Information for Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
  308   
 
    Item 9.   
     
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure    
      
  309   
 
    Item 9A.   
     
     Controls and Procedures    
      
  309   
 
    Item 9B.   
     
     Other Information    
      
  310   
 
    PART III      
 
    Item 10.   
     
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  311   
 
    Item 11.   
     
     Executive Compensation    
      
  311   
 
    Item 12.   
     
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

311   
 
    Item 13.   
     
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence    
      
  311   
 
    Item 14.   
     
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  311   
 
    PART IV      
 
    Item 15.   
     
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule     
      
  312   
 
      Signatures     

323    

Table of Contents  

    CONFIDENTIAL        GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          PART
I       General Motors Company was formed by the United States Department of the Treasury (UST) in 2009 originally as a
Delaware limited liability company, Vehicle Acquisition Holdings LLC, and subsequently converted to a Delaware corporation, NGMCO, Inc. This company, which on July 10, 2009 acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain
liabilities of General Motors Corporation (363 Sale) and changed its name to General Motors Company, is sometimes referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K (2010 10-K) for the periods on or subsequent to July 10, 2009 as  we, 
 our,   us,   ourselves,  the  Company,   General Motors,  or  GM,  and is the successor entity solely for accounting and financial reporting purposes (Successor). General Motors
Corporation is sometimes referred to in this 2010 10-K, for the periods on or before July 9, 2009, as  Old GM.  Prior to July 10, 2009 Old GM operated the business of the Company, and pursuant to an agreement with the Staff of
the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) as described in a no-action letter issued to Old GM by the SEC Staff on July 9, 2009 regarding our filing requirements and those of MLC (as subsequently defined), the accompanying consolidated
financial statements include the financial statements and related information of Old GM as it is our predecessor entity solely for accounting and financial reporting purposes (Predecessor). On July 10, 2009 in connection with the 363 Sale,
General Motors Corporation changed its name to Motors Liquidation Company, which is sometimes referred to in this 2010 10-K for the periods after July 10, 2009 as  MLC.  MLC continues to exist as a distinct legal entity for the sole
purpose of liquidating its remaining assets and liabilities.         Item 1. Business    
   Launch of the New General Motors       General Motors Company was formed by the UST in 2009, and prior to July 10, 2009, our business was operated by Old GM. On June 1, 2009, Old GM and three of its domestic direct and indirect
subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 (the Chapter 11 Proceedings) of the Bankruptcy Code in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (Bankruptcy Court). On July 10, 2009, we, through
certain of our subsidiaries, acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Old GM in connection with the 363 Sale closing.      Through our purchase of substantially all of the assets and assumption of certain liabilities of Old GM in connection with the 363 Sale, we have launched a new company with a strong balance sheet, a
competitive cost structure, and a strong cash position, which we believe will enable us to compete more effectively with our U.S. and foreign-based competitors in the U.S. and to continue our strong presence in growing global markets. In particular,
we acquired assets that included Old GM s strongest operations, and we believe we have a competitive operating cost structure, partly as a result of recent agreements with the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agriculture
Implement Workers of America (UAW) and Canadian Auto Workers Union (CAW).      We have a vision to design, build and sell the
world s best vehicles. Our executive leadership and our employees are committed to:       

Building our market share, revenue, earnings and cash flow;      

Improving the quality of our cars and trucks, while increasing customer satisfaction and overall perception of our products; and

Continuing to take a leadership role in the development of advanced energy saving technologies, including advanced combustion engines, biofuels,
fuel cells, hybrid vehicles, extended-range-electric vehicles, and advanced battery development.      
    Public Offering        In November and December 2010 we consummated a public offering of 550 million shares of our common stock and 100 million shares of our Series B Preferred Stock and listed our common stock on the
New York Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange and listed our Series B Preferred Stock on the New York Stock Exchange. We received net proceeds of $4.9 billion from the offering of the Series B Preferred Stock.   
         1   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    General       We develop, produce and market cars, trucks and parts worldwide. We also provide automotive financing services through General Motors Financial Company, Inc. (GM Financial).   
    Automotive        Our automotive operations meet the demands of our customers through our four automotive segments: GM North America (GMNA), GM Europe (GME), GM International Operations (GMIO) and GM South America (GMSA).
     In the year ended December 31, 2009 we combined our vehicle sales data, market share data and production volume data in
the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 with Old GM s data in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 for comparative purposes.      Our total worldwide vehicle sales were 8.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2010. Total combined GM and Old GM worldwide vehicle sales in the year ended December 31, 2009 were 7.5
million. Old GM s total worldwide vehicle sales were 8.4 million in the year ended December 31, 2008. Substantially all of the cars, trucks and parts are marketed through retail dealers in North America, and through distributors and
dealers outside of North America, the substantial majority of which are independently owned.      In the year ended
December 31, 2010 we completed the sale of Saab Automobile AB (Saab) in February 2010 and the sale of Saab Automobile GB (Saab GB) in May 2010 and have completed the wind down of our Pontiac, Saturn and HUMMER brands.   
  GMNA primarily meets the demands of customers in North America with vehicles developed, manufactured and/or marketed under the following
four brands:       

Buick   
      
          Cadillac   
      
          Chevrolet   
      
          GMC     
  The demands of customers outside North America are primarily met with vehicles developed, manufactured and/or marketed under the
following brands:       

Buick   
      
          Daewoo   
      
          Holden   
      
          Opel    
 
          Cadillac   
      
          GMC   
      
          Isuzu   
      
          Vauxhall    
 
          Chevrolet   

At December 31, 2010 we had equity ownership stakes directly or indirectly in entities
through various regional subsidiaries, including GM Daewoo Auto   Technology Co. (GM Daewoo), Shanghai General Motors Co., Ltd. (SGM), SAIC-GM-Wuling Automobile Co., Ltd. (SGMW), FAW-GM Light Duty Commercial Vehicle Co., Ltd. (FAW-GM) and
SAIC GM Investment Limited (HKJV). In 2011 SGMW plans to commence sales under the Baojun brand. In January 2011 GM Daewoo announced it will be changing its name to GM Korea and will sell most of its cars under the Chevrolet brand. These companies
design, manufacture and market vehicles under the following brands:       

Buick   
      
          Daewoo   
      
          GMC   
      
          Jiefang    
 
          Cadillac   
      
          FAW   
      
          Holden   
      
          Wuling    
 
          Chevrolet   

In addition to the products we sell to our dealers for consumer retail sales, we also sell cars
and trucks to fleet customers, including daily rental car companies, commercial fleet customers, leasing companies and governments. We sell vehicles to fleet customers directly or through our network of dealers. Our retail and fleet customers can
obtain a wide range of aftersale vehicle services and products through our dealer network, such as maintenance, light repairs, collision repairs, vehicle accessories and extended service warranties.   
         2   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     Automotive Financing     
  On October 1, 2010 we completed the acquisition of AmeriCredit Corp. (AmeriCredit) for cash of approximately $3.5 billion and
changed its name to General Motors Financial Company, Inc.      GM Financial is a leading automotive finance company that has been
operating since 1992. GM Financial purchases automobile finance contracts for new and used vehicles purchased by consumers primarily from franchised and select independent dealerships. GM Financial predominantly offers financing to consumers who are
typically unable to obtain financing from more traditional sources. The typical borrower has experienced prior credit difficulties or has limited credit history and generally has a credit bureau score ranging from 500 through 700. GM Financial
services its loan portfolio at regional centers using automated loan servicing and collection systems. Since GM Financial provides financing in a relatively high-risk market, it expects to sustain a higher level of credit losses than other more
traditional sources of financing.      GM Financial finances its loan origination volume through the use of credit facilities and
securitization trusts that issue asset-backed securities to investors. GM Financial retains an interest in these securitization trusts that are over collateralized, whereby more receivables are transferred to the securitization trusts than the
amount of asset-backed securities issued by the securitization trusts, as well as the estimated future excess cash flows expected to be received by GM Financial over the life of the securitization. Excess cash flows result from the difference
between the finance charges received from the obligors on the receivables and the interest paid to investors in the asset-backed securities, net of credit losses and expenses.      Excess cash flows in the securitization trusts are initially utilized to fund credit enhancement requirements in order to attain specific credit ratings for the asset-backed securities issued by the
securitization trusts. Once targeted credit enhancement requirements are reached and maintained, excess cash flows are distributed to GM Financial or, in a securitization utilizing a senior subordinated structure, may be used to accelerate the
repayment of certain subordinated securities. In addition to excess cash flows, GM Financial receives monthly base servicing fees and collects other fees, such as late charges, as servicer for securitization trusts.   
  In December 2010 GM Financial began offering a lease product in certain geographic areas through our franchised dealerships that targets
consumers with prime credit bureau scores leasing new GM vehicles. GM Financial expects to begin offering a nationwide lease product targeting consumers with prime and sub-prime credit scores in 2011.   
   Competitive Position    
  Information in this 2010 10-K relating to our relative position in the global automotive industry is based upon the good faith estimates
of management, and includes all sales by joint ventures on a total vehicle basis, not based on the percentage of ownership in the joint venture. Market share information in this 2010 10-K is based on vehicle sales volume.   
  The global automotive industry is highly competitive. The principal factors that determine consumer vehicle preferences in the markets in
which we operate include price, quality, available options, style, safety, reliability, fuel economy and functionality. Market leadership in individual countries in which we compete varies widely.   
  In the year ended December 31, 2010 our worldwide market share was 11.4%. Our vehicle sales volumes in the year ended
December 31, 2010 are consistent with a gradual U.S. vehicle sales recovery from the negative economic effects of the U.S. recession first experienced by Old GM in the second half of 2008.   
  In the year ended December 31, 2009 combined GM and Old GM worldwide market share was 11.6%. In 2009 the U.S. continued to be
negatively affected by the economic factors experienced in 2008 as U.S. automotive industry sales declined 21.4% when compared to the year ended December 31, 2008.      In the year ended December 31, 2008 Old GM s worldwide market share was 12.3%. In 2008 worldwide market share was severely affected by the recession in Old GM s largest market, the U.S.,
and the recession in Western Europe. Tightening of the credit markets, increases in the unemployment rate, declining consumer confidence as a result of declining household incomes and escalating public
  
         3   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
speculation related to Old GM s potential bankruptcy contributed to significantly lower vehicle sales in the U.S. These economic factors had a negative effect on the U.S. automotive industry
and the principal factors that determine consumers  vehicle buying decisions. As a result, consumers delayed purchasing or leasing new vehicles which caused a decline in U.S. vehicle sales.   
  The following table summarizes the respective U.S. market shares in passenger cars and trucks:   

Vehicle Sales        The following tables summarize total industry sales of new motor vehicles of domestic and foreign makes and the related competitive position (vehicles in thousands):   

4   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          

(a)  
  Includes HUMMER, Saturn and Pontiac vehicle sales data.         

(b)  
  Our vehicle sales include Saab data through February 2010.         

(c)  
  Vehicle sales data may include rounding differences.         

(d)  
  Certain fleet sales that are accounted for as operating leases are included in vehicle sales at the time of delivery to the daily rental car companies.

(e)  
  GMNA vehicle sales primarily represent sales to the ultimate customer. GME, GMIO and GMSA vehicle sales primarily represent estimated sales to the ultimate customer. In
countries where end customer data is not readily available other data sources, such as wholesale volumes, are used to estimate vehicle sales.         
 
         5   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          

(a)  
  Includes HUMMER, Saturn and Pontiac vehicle sales data.         

(b)  
  Our vehicle sales include Saab data through February 2010.         

(c)  
  Vehicle sales data may include rounding differences.         

(d)  
  Certain fleet sales that are accounted for as operating leases are included in vehicle sales at the time of delivery to the daily rental car companies.

(e)  
  GMNA vehicle sales primarily represent sales to the ultimate customer. GME, GMIO and GMSA vehicle sales primarily represent estimated sales to the ultimate customer. In
countries where end customer data is not readily available other data sources, such as wholesale volumes, are used to estimate vehicle sales.         

(f)  
  Includes SGM joint venture vehicle sales in China of 1.0 million vehicles, SGMW and FAW-GM joint venture vehicle sales in China of 1.3 million vehicles and
HKJV joint venture vehicle sales in India of 110,000 vehicles in the year ended December 31, 2010. Combined GM and Old GM SGM joint venture vehicle sales in China of 708,000 vehicles and combined GM and Old GM SGMW and FAW-GM joint venture
vehicle sales in China of 1.1 million vehicles in the year ended December 31, 2009 and Old GM SGM joint venture vehicle sales in China of 432,000 vehicles and Old GM SGMW joint venture vehicle sales in China of 647,000 vehicles in the year
ended December 31, 2008. We do not record revenue from our joint ventures  vehicle sales.         

(g)  
  The joint venture agreements with SGMW (44%) and FAW-GM (50%) allow for significant rights as a member as well as the contractual right to report SGMW and
FAW-GM vehicle sales in China as part of our global market share.          Fleet Sales and Deliveries
       The sales and market share data provided previously includes both retail and fleet vehicle sales. Fleet sales are
comprised of vehicle sales to daily rental car companies, as well as leasing companies and commercial fleet and government customers. Certain fleet transactions, particularly daily rental, are generally less profitable than retail sales. As part of
our pricing strategy, particularly in the U.S., we have improved our mix of sales to specific customers. In the accompanying tables fleet sales are presented as vehicle sales. A significant portion of the sales to daily rental car companies are
recorded as operating leases under U.S. GAAP with no recognition of revenue at the date of initial delivery.      The following
table summarizes estimated fleet sales and the amount of those sales as a percentage of total vehicle sales (vehicles in thousands):       

(a)  
  Fleet sales vary by segment and certain amounts are estimated.         

(b)  
  Fleet sales data may include rounding differences.     
         6   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   The following table summarizes U.S. fleet sales and the amount of those sales as a
percentage of total U.S. vehicle sales (vehicles in thousands):       

(a)  
  Fleet sales data may include rounding differences.         Product Pricing       A number of methods are used to promote our products,
including the use of dealer, retail and fleet incentives such as customer rebates and finance rate support. The level of incentives is dependent in large part upon the level of competition in the markets in which we operate and the level of demand
for our products. In 2011 we will continue to price vehicles competitively, including offering strategic and tactical incentives as required. We believe this strategy, coupled with sound inventory management, will continue to strengthen the
reputation of our brands and result in competitive prices.       Cyclical Nature of Business    
  In the automotive industry, retail sales are cyclical and production varies from month to month. Vehicle model changeovers occur
throughout the year as a result of new market entries. The market for vehicles is cyclical and depends on general economic conditions, credit availability and consumer spending. In 2010 the global automotive industry, particularly in the U.S., had
not yet fully recovered from the negative economic factors experienced in 2008.       Relationship with Dealers    
  We market vehicles worldwide through a network of independent retail dealers and distributors. At December 31, 2010 there were 4,458
vehicle dealers in the U.S., 465 in Canada and 244 in Mexico and other Central American locations. Additionally, there were a total of 15,048 distribution outlets throughout the rest of the world. These outlets include distributors, dealers and
authorized sales, service and parts outlets.      The following table summarizes the number of authorized dealerships:   

7   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   As part of achieving and sustaining long-term viability and the viability of our dealer
network, we determined that a reduction in the number of GMNA dealerships was necessary. In determining which dealerships would remain in our network we performed analyses of volumes and consumer satisfaction indexes, among other criteria. Refer to
the section of this report entitled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Specific Management Initiatives   U.S. Dealer Reduction  for a further discussion on our U.S.
dealer reduction.      We enter into a contract with each authorized dealer agreeing to sell to the dealer one or more specified
product lines at wholesale prices and granting the dealer the right to sell those vehicles to retail customers from a GM approved location. Our dealers often offer more than one GM brand of vehicle at a single dealership. In fact, we actively
promote this for several of our brands in a number of our markets in order to enhance dealer profitability. Authorized GM dealers offer parts, accessories, service and repairs for GM vehicles in the product lines that they sell, using genuine GM
parts and accessories. Our dealers are authorized to service GM vehicles under our limited warranty program, and those repairs are to be made only with genuine GM parts. Our dealers generally provide their customers access to credit or lease
financing, vehicle insurance and extended service contracts provided by GM Financial, Ally Financial, Inc., formerly GMAC, Inc. (Ally Financial) and other financial institutions.   
  Because dealers maintain the primary sales and service interface with the ultimate consumer of our products, the quality of GM
dealerships and our relationship with our dealers and distributors are critical to our success. In addition to the terms of our contracts with our dealers, we are regulated by various country and state franchise laws that may supersede those
contractual terms and impose specific regulatory requirements and standards for initiating dealer network changes, pursuing terminations for cause and other contractual matters.       Research, Development and Intellectual Property       Costs for research,
manufacturing engineering, product engineering, and design and development activities relate primarily to developing new products or services or improving existing products or services, including activities related to vehicle emissions control,
improved fuel economy and the safety of drivers and passengers.      The following table summarizes research and development
expense (dollars in millions):       
      Research
        Overview       Our top priority for research is to continue to develop and advance our alternative propulsion strategy, as energy diversity and environmental leadership are critical elements of our overall business
strategy. Our objective is to be the recognized industry leader in fuel efficiency through the development of a wide variety of technologies to reduce petroleum consumption. To meet this objective we focus on five specific areas:   

Continue to increase the fuel efficiency of our cars and trucks;      

Develop alternative fuel vehicles;          

Invest significantly in our hybrid and electric technologies;      

Invest significantly in plug-in electric vehicle technology; and      

Continue development of hydrogen fuel cell technology.      
         8   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Fuel Efficiency    
  We and Old GM have complied with federal fuel economy requirements since their inception in 1978, and we are fully committed to meeting
the requirements of the Energy Independence and Security Act of 2007 (EISA) and compliance with other regulatory schemes, including the California vehicle greenhouse gas emissions program. We anticipate steadily improving fuel economy for both our
car and truck fleets. We are committed to meeting or exceeding all federal fuel economy standards in the 2011 through 2016 model years. We plan to achieve compliance through a combination of strategies, including: (1) extensive technology
improvements to conventional powertrains; (2) increased use of smaller displacement engines and six speed automatic transmissions; (3) vehicle improvements, including increased use of lighter, front-wheel drive architectures;
(4) increased hybrid and electric vehicle offerings; and (5) portfolio changes, including increasing car/crossover mix and dropping select larger vehicles in favor of smaller, more fuel efficient offerings.   
  We are committed to lead in the development of technologies to increase the fuel efficiency of internal combustion engines such as
cylinder deactivation, direct injection, turbo-charging with engine downsizing, six speed transmissions and variable valve timing. As a full-line manufacturer that produces a wide variety of cars, trucks and sport utility vehicles, we currently
offer 13 models (2011 model year) obtaining 30 mpg or more in highway driving.       Alternative Fuel Vehicles    
  We have been in the forefront in the development of alternative fuel vehicles, leveraging experience and capability developed around
these technologies in our operations in Brazil. Alternative fuels offer the greatest near-term potential to reduce petroleum consumption in the transportation sector, especially as cellulosic sources of ethanol become more affordable and readily
available in the U.S.      We currently offer 19 FlexFuel vehicles for the 2011 model year, estimated to be 40% of our U.S.
vehicle sales, capable of operating on gasoline, E85 ethanol or any combination of the two. As part of an overall energy diversity strategy, we remain committed to making at least 50% of the vehicles we produce for the U.S. capable of operating on
biofuels, specifically E85 ethanol, by 2012, assuming the appropriate infrastructure growth materializes. However, recent regulatory developments occurring in the fourth quarter of 2010 have altered our previous FlexFuel vehicle production goals
beyond 2012. We are currently evaluating the effects of these regulatory developments.      We are focused on promoting
sustainable biofuels derived from non-food sources, such as agricultural, forestry and municipal waste. We are continuing to work with our two strategic alliances with cellulosic ethanol makers: Coskata, Inc., of Warrenville, Illinois, and New
Hampshire based Mascoma Corp. In October 2009, Coskata, Inc. opened its semi-commercial facility for manufacturing cellulosic ethanol and Mascoma Corp. has been making cellulosic ethanol at its Rome, New York, demonstration plant since late 2008.
     We are supporting the development of biodiesel, a clean-burning alternative diesel fuel that is produced from renewable
sources. In 2011 model year full-size pickups and vans, B20 capability is standard on our Duramax 6.6L turbo diesel engine. The Duramax diesel engine is available in the Chevrolet Silverado and GMC Sierra heavy-duty pickups and Chevrolet Express and
GMC Savana full-size vans.      We have announced that Compressed Natural Gas (CNG) and Liquefied Petroleum Gas (LPG) powered
versions of the Chevrolet Express and GMC Savana full-size vans will be offered to fleet and commercial customers. We are currently accepting orders for the CNG cargo vans, and the LPG van cutaway models will begin production by the second quarter
of 2011. The vans have specially designed engines for the gaseous fuels and come direct to the customer with the fully integrated and warranted dedicated gaseous fuel system in place.   
   Hybrid and Plug-In Electric Vehicles       We are investing significantly in multiple technologies offering increasing levels of vehicle electrification including hybrid, plug-in hybrid and electric vehicles with extended-range technology. We
currently offer seven hybrid models. We continue to develop plug-in   
         9   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
hybrid electric vehicle technology (PHEV) which includes the Chevrolet Volt and Opel Ampera electric vehicles with extended range capabilities. We plan to invest heavily between 2011 and 2012 to
support the expansion of our electrified vehicle offerings and in-house development and manufacturing capabilities of advanced batteries, electric motors and power control systems.   
  The GM Two-mode Hybrid system is offered with the automotive industry s only hybrid full-size trucks and sport utility vehicles:
Chevrolet Tahoe, Chevrolet Silverado, GMC Yukon and Yukon Denali, GMC Sierra, Cadillac Escalade and Escalade Platinum.      A
PHEV, using a modified version of our Two-Mode Hybrid system and advanced lithium-ion battery technology, is scheduled to launch in 2012. The PHEV will provide low-speed electric-only propulsion, and blend engine and battery power to significantly
improve fuel efficiency.      The Chevrolet Volt is an electric vehicle with extended range capability. For the first 25 to 50
miles, depending on terrain, driving technique, temperature and battery age, the Chevrolet Volt operates as a full-performance battery electric vehicle powered only by electricity. Once the battery is depleted, the Chevrolet Volt s onboard
engine generates the energy needed to power the vehicle over 300 additional miles on a full tank of premium fuel. Production of the 2011 Chevrolet Volt began in November 2010. The Chevrolet Volt arrived in dealerships in select U.S. geographic
markets in December 2010, and we plan to have Chevrolet Volts available in all participating dealerships in the U.S. by the end of 2011. A second electric vehicle with extended range, the Opel Ampera, is scheduled to launch in Europe in late 2011.
      Hydrogen Fuel Cell Technology       As part of our long-term strategy to reduce petroleum consumption and greenhouse gas emissions we are committed to continuing development of our hydrogen fuel cell technology. We and Old GM have conducted
research in hydrogen fuel cell development spanning more than 40 years, and we are the only U.S. automobile manufacturer actively engaged in all elements of the fuel cell propulsion system development in-house. Our Chevrolet Equinox fuel cell
electric vehicle demonstration programs, such as Project Driveway, are the largest in the world and have accumulated more than 1.7 million miles of real-world driving by consumers, celebrities, business partners and government agencies. More
than 6,500 individuals have driven the fuel cell powered Chevrolet Equinox, either in short drives, such as media or special events, or as part of Project Driveway. To date, their feedback has led to technology improvements such as extending fuel
cell stack life and improvements in the regenerative braking system, which has also benefited our Two-Mode Hybrid vehicles, and improvements in the infrastructure of fueling stations for hydrogen fuel cell electric vehicles. The knowledge gained
during Project Driveway on the fuel cell itself has affected the development of the Chevrolet Volt battery as we are applying fuel cell thermal design knowledge to the Chevrolet Volt battery design. Project Driveway operates in Washington D.C. and
California (including Los Angeles, Orange County and Sacramento) for the California Fuel Cell Partnership and the California Air Resources Board (CARB). Project Driveway also operates in the New York Metropolitan area and the greater New York City
area with hydrogen fueling stations at JFK International Airport and in the Bronx. Most Project Driveway participants drive Chevrolet Equinoxes for two months with the cost of fuel and insurance provided free in exchange for participant feedback.
The Chevrolet Equinox fuel cell electric vehicles do not use any gasoline or oil and emit only water vapor. We have made significant progress on the fuel cell stack for a second-generation fuel cell vehicle, though we currently have not approved
such a program.       OnStar       Advancements in telematics (wireless voice and data) technology are demonstrated through our OnStar service. OnStar s in-vehicle safety, security and communications service is available on more than
40 of our 2011 model year vehicles and currently serves 6 million subscribers in the U.S., Canada and China. In China, OnStar increased in-vehicle telematics services to more than 170,000 subscribers. OnStar s key services include:
Automatic Crash Response, Stolen Vehicle Assistance, Turn-by-Turn Navigation, OnStar Vehicle Diagnostics and Hands-Free Calling. In 2010 we offered OnStar eNav, a feature of Turn-by-Turn Navigation, available through Google Maps. OnStar subscribers
are able to search for and identify destinations using Google Maps and send those destinations to their vehicles. They can then access the destinations whenever they choose and receive OnStar Turn-by-Turn directions to the destination from wherever
they are. Also in 2010, Chevrolet and OnStar unveiled the automotive industry s first   
         10   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
working smartphone application, which will allow Chevrolet Volt owners 24/7 connection and remote control of vehicle functions and OnStar features. OnStar s Mobile Application allows drivers
to communicate with their Chevrolet Volt from Motorola Droid, Apple iPhone and Blackberry Storm smartphones. It uses a real-time data connection to perform tasks from setting the charge time to unlocking the doors.   
  In 2009 OnStar developed an Injury Severity Prediction system based on the findings of a Center for Disease Control and Prevention expert
panel which allows OnStar advisors to alert first responders when a vehicle crash is likely to have caused serious injury to the occupants. Data from OnStar s Automatic Crash Response system will be used to automatically calculate the Injury
Severity Prediction which can assist responders in determining the level of care required and the transport destination for patients. OnStar has also expanded its Stolen Vehicle Assistance services with the announcement of Remote Ignition Block.
This will allow an OnStar Advisor to send a remote signal to a subscriber s stolen vehicle to prevent the vehicle from restarting once the ignition is turned off. We believe that this capability will not only help authorities recover stolen
vehicles, but can also prevent or shorten dangerous high speed pursuits.       Other Technologies    
  Other safety systems include the third generation of our StabiliTrak electronic stability control system. The system maximizes handling
and braking by using a combination of systems and sensors including anti-lock braking systems (ABS), traction control, suspension and steering. Our Lane Departure Warning System and Side Blind Zone Alert Systems extend and enhance driver awareness
and vision.        Product Development        Our vehicle development activities are integrated into a single global organization. This strategy builds on earlier efforts to consolidate and standardize our approach to vehicle development.   
  Under our global vehicle architecture strategy and for each of our ten global architectures, we define a global architecture as a
specific range of performance characteristics and dimensions supporting a common set of major underbody components and subsystems with common interfaces.      A centralized organization is responsible for many of the non-visible parts of the vehicle such as steering, suspension, the brake system, the heating, ventilation and air conditioning system and the
electrical system. This team works very closely with the global architecture development teams around the world, who are responsible for components that are unique to each brand, such as exterior and interior design, tuning of the vehicle to meet
the brand character requirements and final validation to meet applicable government requirements.      We currently have ten
different global architectures that are assigned to regional centers around the world. The allocation of the architectures to specific regions is based on where the expertise for the vehicle segment resides, e.g., mini and small vehicles in Asia
Pacific, compact vehicles in Europe and midsize, crossover, and rear-wheel drive vehicles in North America. We are engineering most of these global architectures to enable various electric propulsion systems, rather than having unique architectures
for hybrids, plug-in hybrids, extended-range electric and electric vehicles.      The ten global architectures are:   

Mini   
      
           Midsize Truck    
 
           Small   
      
           Small Sport Utility Vehicle    
 
           Compact   
      
           Compact Sport Utility Vehicle    
 
           Midsize   
      
           Small Rear-Wheel Drive    
 
           Midsize Crossover   
      
           Large Rear-Wheel Drive     
  We plan to increase the volume of vehicles produced from common global architectures to more than 50% of our total volumes in 2015 from
less than 17% today.   
         11   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     Intellectual Property     
  We generate and hold a significant number of patents in a number of countries in connection with the operation of our business. While
none of these patents by itself is material to our business as a whole, these patents are very important to our operations and continued technological development. We hold a number of trademarks and service marks that are very important to our
identity and recognition in the marketplace.       Raw Materials, Services and Supplies    
  We purchase a wide variety of raw materials, parts, supplies, energy, freight, transportation and other services from numerous suppliers
for use in the manufacture of our products. The raw materials are primarily composed of steel, aluminum, resins, copper, lead and platinum group metals. We have not experienced any significant shortages of raw materials and normally do not carry
substantial inventories of such raw materials in excess of levels reasonably required to meet our production requirements. In 2009 the weakening of commodity prices experienced in the latter part of 2008 was generally reversed with prices returning
to more historical levels by year end. In early 2010, our costs increased further as commodity prices increased faster than expected due to economic growth in China and speculative activity in the commodity markets. During the middle part of 2010
there was a slight leveling of commodity prices due to European sovereign debt issues and concerns over a slowdown in China, but commodity prices have returned to steady price increases during the last few months of 2010.   
  In some instances, we purchase systems, components, parts and supplies from a single source and may be at an increased risk for supply
disruptions. Based on our standard payment terms with our systems, components and parts suppliers, we are generally required to pay most of these suppliers on average 47 days following receipt with weekly disbursements.   
   Environmental and Regulatory Matters         Automotive Emissions Control        We are subject to laws and
regulations that require us to control automotive emissions, including vehicle exhaust emission standards, vehicle evaporative emission standards and onboard diagnostic system (OBD) requirements, in the regions throughout the world in which we sell
cars, trucks and heavy-duty engines.       North America    
  The U.S. federal government imposes stringent emission control requirements on vehicles sold in the U.S., and additional requirements are
imposed by various state governments, most notably California. These requirements include pre-production testing of vehicles, testing of vehicles after assembly, the imposition of emission defect and performance warranties and the obligation to
recall and repair customer owned vehicles that do not comply with emissions requirements. We must obtain certification that the vehicles will meet emission requirements from the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) before we can sell vehicles in
the U.S. and Canada and from the CARB before we can sell vehicles in California and other states that have adopted the California emissions requirements.      The EPA and the CARB continue to emphasize testing on vehicles sold in the U.S. for compliance with these emissions requirements. We believe that our vehicles meet the current EPA and CARB requirements.
If our vehicles do not comply with the emission standards or if defective emission control systems or components are discovered in such testing, or as part of government required defect reporting, we could incur substantial costs related to
emissions recalls and possible fines. We expect that new CARB and federal requirements will increase the time and mileage periods over which manufacturers are responsible for a vehicle s emission performance.   
  The current EPA and the CARB emission requirements are referred to as Tier 2 and Low Emission Vehicle (LEV) II. Fleet-wide compliance
with the Tier 2 and LEV II standards must be achieved based on a sales-weighted fleet average. President Obama has   
         12   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
directed the EPA to review its vehicle emission standards, and if the EPA finds that more stringent emission regulations are necessary, to promulgate such regulations. The CARB is developing its
next generation emission standards, LEV III, which will further increase the stringency of its emission standards. We expect the LEV III requirements to be adopted as early as the fourth quarter of 2011 and to be phased in beginning with the 2014
model year. Both the EPA and the CARB have enacted regulations to control the emissions of greenhouse gases. Since we believe these regulations are effectively a form of fuel economy requirement, they are discussed under  Automotive Fuel
Economy.      California law requires that 11% of 2011 model year cars and certain light-duty trucks sold in the state must
be zero emission vehicles (ZEV), such as electric vehicles or hydrogen fuel cell vehicles. The requirement is based on a complex system of credits that vary in magnitude by vehicle type and model year. Manufacturers have the option of meeting a
portion of this requirement with partial ZEV credit for vehicles that meet very stringent exhaust and evaporative emission standards and have extended emission system warranties. An additional portion of the ZEV requirement can be met with vehicles
that meet these partial ZEV requirements and incorporate advanced technology, such as a hybrid electric propulsion system meeting specified criteria. Beginning in 2012, an additional portion of the ZEV requirement can be met with PHEVs that meet the
partial ZEV requirements and certain other criteria. We are complying with the ZEV requirements using a variety of means, including producing vehicles certified to the partial ZEV requirements. CARB has also announced plans to adopt, as early as the
fourth quarter of 2011, 2018 model year and later requirements for ZEVs and PHEVs to achieve greenhouse gas as well as criteria pollutant emission reductions to help achieve the state s long-term greenhouse gas reduction goals.   
  The Clean Air Act permits states that have areas with air quality compliance issues to adopt the California car and light-duty truck
emission standards in lieu of the federal requirements. Twelve states, including New York, Massachusetts, Maine, Vermont, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, New Jersey, Oregon, Washington, Maryland and New Mexico, as well as the Province of
Quebec, currently have these standards in effect, although New Mexico has waived its requirements through 2016 effective January 2011. Arizona has adopted the California standards effective beginning in the 2012 model year and Delaware has adopted
those standards beginning in the 2014 model year. Additional states could also adopt the California standards in the future.   
  Advanced OBD systems, used to identify and diagnose problems with emission control systems, are required under U.S. federal, Canadian
federal and California law. Problems detected by the OBD system have the potential of increasing warranty costs and the chance for recall. OBD requirements become more challenging each year as vehicles must meet lower emission standards and new
diagnostics are required. California has adopted more stringent and technically challenging OBD requirements that take effect from the 2008 through 2013 model years, including new design requirements and corresponding enforcement procedures. We have
implemented hardware and software changes to comply with these more stringent requirements.      The federal Tier 2 requirements
for evaporative emissions are being harmonized with the California evaporative emission requirements beginning with a 2009 model year phase-in. California plans to further increase the stringency of its evaporative emission requirements as part of
its LEV III rulemaking.      Vehicles equipped with heavy-duty engines are also subject to stringent emission requirements, and
could be recalled, or fines could be imposed against us, should testing or defect reporting identify a noncompliance with these emission requirements. For the 2011 model year, certain gasoline and diesel-powered Chevrolet Silverados, GMC Sierra
Pickups, Chevrolet Express and GMC Savana Vans are classified as heavy-duty and subject to these requirements. We also certify heavy-duty engines for installation in other manufacturers  products. The heavy-duty exhaust standards became more
stringent in the 2010 model year. As permitted by EPA and CARB regulations, we are using a system of credits, referred to as Averaging Banking and Trading, to help meet these stringent standards. OBD requirements were first applied to heavy-duty
vehicles beginning with the 2010 model year, which we are meeting with certain hardware and software changes.       Europe
      In Europe, emissions are regulated by two different entities: the European Commission (EC) and the United Nations
Economic Commission for Europe (UN ECE). The EC imposes harmonized emission control requirements on vehicles sold in all 27 European   
         13   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
Union (EU) Member States, and other countries apply regulations under the framework of the UN ECE. EU Member States can give tax incentives to automobile manufacturers for vehicles which meet
emission standards earlier than the compliance date. This can result in specific market requirements for automobile manufacturers to introduce technology earlier than is required for compliance with the EC emission standards. The current EC
requirements include type approval of preproduction testing of vehicles, testing of vehicles after assembly and the obligation to recall and repair vehicles that do not comply with emissions requirements. EC and UN ECE requirements are equivalent in
terms of stringency and implementation. We must demonstrate that vehicles will meet emission requirements in witness tests and obtain type approval from an approval authority before we can sell vehicles in the EU Member States.   
  Emission requirements in Europe will become even more stringent in the future. A new level of exhaust emission standards for cars and
light-duty trucks, Euro 5 standards, was applied in 2009, while stricter Euro 6 standards will apply beginning in 2014. The OBD requirements associated with these new standards will become more challenging as well. The new European emission
standards focus particularly on reducing emissions from diesel vehicles. Diesel vehicles have become important in the European marketplace, where they encompass 50% of the market share. The new requirements will require additional technologies and
further increase the cost of diesel engines, which currently cost more than gasoline engines. To comply with Euro 6, we expect that we will need to implement technologies which are identical to those being developed to meet U.S. emission standards.
The technologies available today are not cost effective and would therefore not be suitable for the European market for small- and mid-size diesel vehicles, which typically are under high cost pressure. Certain measures to reduce exhaust pollutant
emissions have detrimental effects on vehicle fuel economy, which drives additional technology cost to maintain fuel economy.   
  In the long-term, notwithstanding the already low vehicle emissions in Europe, regulatory discussions in Europe are expected to continue.
Regulators will continue to refine the testing requirements addressing issues such as test cycle, durability, OBD, in-service conformity and off-cycle emissions.       International Operations       In our international operations, our vehicles
are subject to a broad range of vehicle emission laws and regulations. China has implemented European emission standards, with Euro 4 standards first applied in Beijing in 2008. Shanghai implemented Euro 4 standards with European OBD requirements
for newly registered vehicles in 2009 and Euro 4 standards came into effect nationwide in 2010 for new vehicle approvals and will come into effect beginning in 2011 for newly registered vehicles. Beijing is expected to require many elements of Euro
5 standards for newly registered vehicles beginning in 2012 with additional elements of Euro 5 standards being enforced beginning in 2014. Nationwide implementation of Euro 5 is expected in 2013 or 2014. South Korea has implemented the following:
(1) CARB emission requirements based on a sales-weighted fleet average with different application timings and levels of non-methane organic gas (which is the sum of all organic air pollutants, excluding methane) targets for gasoline and LPG
powered vehicles; (2) Euro 5 standards for diesel-powered vehicles; (3) CARB standards for gasoline-powered vehicles; and (4) EU regulations for diesel-powered vehicles for OBD and evaporative emissions. The senior representatives
from each of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN Committee) agreed that the major ASEAN countries of Thailand, Malaysia, Indonesia, Philippines and Singapore would implement Euro 4 standards for gasoline and diesel powertrains, with
the exception of Singapore which already requires Euro 4 for diesel powertrains. In April 2010 most of the ASEAN countries decided to postpone Euro 4 beyond 2012 with the exception of Thailand. Since April 2010 India s Bharat Stage IV emission
standards have been required for new vehicle registrations in 13 major cities and Bharat Stage III emission standards are required throughout the rest of India. Starting in 2013 EU OBD II will be implemented for all Bharat Stage IV vehicles.
Roadworthiness requirements in 13 major cities for Bharat Stage IV vehicles will commence in 2011. Japan sets specific exhaust emission and durability standards, test methods and driving cycles. In Japan, OBD is required with both EU and U.S. OBD
systems accepted. All other countries in which we conduct operations within the Asia Pacific region either require or allow some form of EPA, EU or UN ECE style emission regulations with or without OBD requirements. In Russia, current emission
regulations are equivalent to Euro 3 for cars and Euro 2 for commercial vehicles. The implementation of Euro 4 equivalent emission requirements for cars has been delayed to 2012. Euro 5 equivalent emission requirements for cars do not have an
implementation date, but are expected to be implemented in 2015. Australia currently requires a Euro 4 equivalent emission standard and is currently considering the implementation of a Euro 5 equivalent emission standard.   
         14   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    South America    
  In South America, some countries follow the U.S. test procedures, standards and OBD requirements and some follow the EU test procedures,
standards and OBD requirements with different levels of stringency. Brazil implemented national LEV standards, L5, which preceded Tier 2 standards in the U.S., for passenger cars and light commercial vehicles in 2009. L6 standards for light diesel
vehicles are to be implemented in 2012, which mandate OBD requirements for light diesel vehicles in 2015. L6 standards for light gasoline vehicles are to be implemented in 2014 for new vehicles and 2015 for all models. Argentina implemented Euro 4
standards starting with new vehicle registrations in 2009 and is moving to Euro 5 standards in 2012 for new vehicles and 2014 for all models. Chile currently requires U.S. Tier 1 or Euro 3 standards for gasoline vehicles and U.S.
Tier 2 Bin 8 or Euro 4 standards for diesel vehicles and has approved U.S. Tier 2 Bin 8 or Euro 4 standards for gasoline vehicles beginning in April 2011 and U.S. Tier 2 Bin 5 or Euro 5 standards for diesel
vehicles beginning in September 2011. Other countries in the South America region either have adopted some level of U.S. or EU standards or no standards at all.        Industrial Environmental Control        Our operations are subject to a
wide range of environmental protection laws including those laws regulating air emissions, water discharges, waste management and environmental cleanup. In connection with the 363 Sale we have assumed various stages of investigation for sites where
contamination has been alleged and a number of remediation actions to clean up hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Certain environmental statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation actions regardless of fault,
legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site. Under certain circumstances these laws impose joint and several liability, as well as liability for related damages to natural resources.   
  The future effect of environmental matters, including potential liabilities, is often difficult to estimate. Environmental reserves are
recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability is reasonably estimable. This practice is followed whether the claims are asserted or unasserted. At December 31, 2010 our reserves for
environmental liabilities were $195 million. The amount of current reserves is expected to be paid out over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which typically range from five to 30 years.   
  The following table summarizes the expenditures for site-remediation actions, including ongoing operations and maintenance (dollars in
millions):       
    It is possible that
such remediation actions could require average annual expenditures of $30 million over the next five years.      Certain
remediation costs and other damages for which we ultimately may be responsible are not reasonably estimable because of uncertainties with respect to factors such as our connection to the site or to materials located at the site, the involvement of
other potentially responsible parties, the application of laws and other standards or regulations, site conditions and the nature and scope of investigations, studies and remediation to be undertaken (including the technologies to be required and
the extent, duration and success of remediation). As a result, we are unable to determine or reasonably estimate the total amount of costs or other damages for which we are potentially responsible in connection with all sites, although that total
could be substantial.      To mitigate the effects our worldwide facilities have on the environment, we are committed to convert
as many of our worldwide facilities as possible to landfill-free facilities. Landfill-free facilities send no manufacturing waste to landfills, by either recycling or creating energy from the waste. As part of our commitment to reduce the
environmental effect resulting from our worldwide facilities, our goal was to convert half of our major global manufacturing operations to landfill-free facilities by 2010. In 2010 we achieved this
  
         15   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
goal with 76 landfill-free facilities, which is 52% of our worldwide facilities. At our landfill-free facilities, over 96% of waste materials are recycled or reused and 3% is converted to energy
at waste-to-energy facilities. We estimate that we recycled or reused over 1.9 million tons of waste materials and estimate that we converted 38,800 tons of waste materials to energy at waste-to-energy facilities in the year ended
December 31, 2010. These numbers will increase as additional manufacturing sites reach landfill-free status.      We are continuing to implement our global energy strategy with a goal to increase our green power purchases. Our web-based data collection and management system is an integrated application designed to
monitor and measure energy use as well as calculate the related carbon dioxide (CO   2   ) emissions, including collecting and verifying energy, water, and other environmental data from facilities around the globe. We manage our greenhouse gas emissions using an integrated systems approach.
This integrated systems approach includes a greenhouse gas reporting policy, global process to collect accurate data, internal and external targets and reporting progress against the established targets.   
    Automotive Fuel Economy         North America       The 1975 Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA) provided
for average fuel economy requirements for fleets of passenger cars built for the 1978 model year and thereafter. Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) reporting is required for three separate fleets, domestically produced cars, imported cars and
light-duty trucks. In 2010 car standards were fixed at 27.5 mpg while the light duty trucks standards were established using targets for various vehicle sizes and vehicle model sales volumes. The following table summarizes our estimated CAFE
compliance standards and our projected compliance (in mpg):       

(a)  
  Reported in our Official 2010 Mid-Model Year Automotive Fuel Economy Report to National Highway Traffic Safety Administration (NHTSA).     

(b)  
  Reported in our Official 2011 Pre-Model Year Automotive Fuel Economy Report to NHTSA.     

(c)  
  Beginning in 2011 all three fleet s standards are reformed (i.e., based on vehicle size and vehicle model sales volumes).     
  In response to a U.S. Supreme Court decision, the EPA was directed to establish a new program to regulate greenhouse gas emissions for
vehicles under the Clean Air Act. In April 2010 the EPA and the NHTSA issued a joint final rule to implement a coordinated national program consisting of new requirements for model year 2012 through 2016 light-duty vehicles that will reduce
greenhouse gas emissions under the Clean Air Act and improve fuel economy pursuant to the CAFE standards under the EPCA. These reform-based standards apply to 2012 through 2016 model year passenger cars, light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger
vehicles (collectively, light-duty vehicles) and will require an industry wide standard of 35.5 mpg by 2016. Our current product plan projects compliance with the federal programs through 2016.   
  Environment Canada, an agency established to preserve and enhance the quality of the natural environment and coordinate environmental
policies and programs for the Canadian federal government, implemented vehicle greenhouse gas standards that were harmonized with the mandatory standards of the U.S. beginning with the 2011 model year. The Province of Quebec has indicated that it
will align its vehicle greenhouse gas regulation to the Canadian federal government requirements once they are finalized.   
  California has passed legislation (AB 1493) requiring the CARB to regulate greenhouse gas emissions from vehicles (which is the same as
regulating fuel economy). This California program is currently established for the 2009 through 2016 model years. California needed a federal waiver to implement this program and was granted this waiver in June 2009.   
         16   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   CARB has agreed that compliance with the federal program is deemed
to be compliance with the California program for 2012 through 2016 model years. California s program to regulate vehicle greenhouse gases is separately in effect for the 2009 through 2011 model years. The following table summarizes
California s program compliance standards and our projected compliance (in grams per mile CO   2   -equivalent):       

(a)  
  Our performance projections for the 2011 model year for passenger cars is projected to be more than the standard. We are still projecting compliance in 2011 due to the
allowed use of credits earned in previous years.         Europe    
  In Europe, legislation was passed in 2009 to regulate vehicle CO   2    emissions beginning in 2012. Based on a target function of CO   2    to vehicle weight, each automobile manufacturer must meet a specific
sales weighted fleet average target. This fleet average requirement will be phased in with 65% of vehicles sold in 2012 required to meet this target, 75% in 2013, 80% in 2014 and 100% in 2015 and beyond. Automobile manufacturers can earn
super-credits under this legislation for the sales volume of vehicles having a specific CO   2    value of less than 50 grams CO   2   . This is intended to encourage the early introduction of ultra-low
CO   2    vehicles such as the Chevrolet Volt and Opel Ampera by
providing an additional incentive to reduce the CO   2    fleet
average. Automobile manufacturers may gain credit of up to seven grams for eco-innovations for those technologies which improve real-world fuel economy but may not show in the test cycle, such as solar panels on vehicles. There is also a 5% credit
for E85 FlexFuel vehicles if more than 30% of refueling stations in an EU Member State sell E85. Further regulatory detail is being developed in the comitology process, which develops the detail of the regulatory requirements through a process
involving the EC and EU Member States. The legislation sets a target of 95 grams per kilometer CO   2    for 2020 with an impact assessment required to further assess and develop this requirement. We have developed a compliance plan by adopting operational CO   2    targets for each market entry in Europe.   
  In 2009 the European Commission adopted a proposal to regulate CO   2    emissions from light commercial vehicles. The proposal is modeled after
the CO   2    regulation for passenger cars. It proposes that new
light commercial vehicles meet a fleet average CO   2    target of
175 grams per kilometer CO   2    with a phase-in of compliance
beginning with 75% of new light commercial vehicles by 2014, 80% by 2015 and 100% compliance by 2016. The manufacturer-specific CO   2    compliance target will be determined as a function of the weight of the vehicle with all standard equipment and fuel
(vehicle curb weight). Flexibilities, such as eco-innovations and super credits, are part of the regulatory proposal as well. A long-term target for 2020 of 135g/km has been also proposed, to be confirmed in 2013 after an impact assessment. We are
currently performing an assessment of the effect of the proposal on our fleet of light commercial vehicles. The proposal will now go through the legislative process with the European Parliament and European Council, during which we expect some
modifications to be adopted.      An EC regulation has been adopted that will require low-rolling resistance tires, tire pressure
monitoring systems and gear shift indicators by 2012. An additional EC regulation has been adopted that will require labeling of tires for noise, fuel efficiency and rolling resistance, affecting vehicles at the point of sale as well as the sale of
tires in the aftermarket.      Seventeen EU Member States have introduced fuel consumption or CO   2    based vehicle taxation schemes. Tax measures are within the jurisdiction
of the EU Member States. We are faced with significant challenges relative to the predictability of future tax laws and differences in the tax schemes and thresholds.       International Operations       In our international operations, we face new or
increasingly more stringent fuel economy standards. In China, Phase 3 fuel economy standards are under development and will move from a vehicle pass-fail system to a curb-weight based, corporate fleet
  
         17   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
average scheme. Phase 3 fuel economy standards are expected to increase by 15% or more from the current Phase 2 targets and implementation is expected to be phased in from 2012 with full
compliance required by 2015. Some relief for certain vehicle types and vehicles with automatic transmissions will be applied through 2015. In 2016 there will be one common standard for vehicles with either a manual or automatic transmission. China
is also considering proposals to increase annual vehicle taxes, and to scale the tax rates to more heavily tax larger displacement engines beginning in 2012. In Korea, new preliminary fuel economy/CO   2    targets for 2012 through 2015 and beyond were announced in September
2010 as part of the government s low carbon/green growth strategy. These targets are based on each vehicle s curb weight, but in general are set at levels more stringent than fuel economy/CO   2    targets in the U.S., but less stringent than fuel economy/CO   2    targets in Europe. The proposed standards will be phased-in beginning in
2012 and finishing in 2015 with manufacturers having the option to certify either on a fuel consumption basis or a
CO   2    emissions basis. Each manufacturer will be given a
corporate target to meet based on an overall industry fleet fuel economy/CO   2    average. Other aspects of the program being considered include credits, incentives, and penalties. In January 2011 Korea announced the exemption level for compliance by small volume manufacturers as
discussed in the Korea-U.S. and Korea-EU free trade agreement negotiations. Manufacturers with sales volumes of less than 4,500 units in 2009 will meet the small volume manufacturer s exemption and will be subject to less stringent
requirements. Korea is expected to finalize and promulgate the new fuel economy/CO   2    regulation in the first quarter of 2011. In Australia, the government is conducting an assessment of possible vehicle fuel efficiency measures including shifting from voluntary to mandatory standards and
how any such move would align with the government s policy response to climate change. Before the government makes any decisions on additional fuel efficiency measures, it will conduct an industry consultation. India is expected to establish
fuel economy norms based on weight and measured in CO   2   
emissions that will become mandatory in 2015. The Indian government is considering establishing voluntary limits in 2012, mandatory limits in 2015 with a 12.4% decrease from 2012 values and a 13.0% drop from 2015 limits by 2020. In 2009 automobile
manufacturers in India began to voluntarily declare the fuel economy of each vehicle at the point of sale. In South Africa,
CO   2    emissions are not regulated, but a new CO   2    emission tax went into effect for all new passenger cars in September
2010 with the exception of double cabbed light commercial vehicles, for which implementation is delayed until March 2011.   
   South America       In Brazil, governmental bodies and the Brazilian automobile manufacturers association established a national voluntary program for evaluation and labeling of light passenger and commercial vehicles
equipped with internal combustion engines. This voluntary program aims to increase vehicle energy efficiency by labeling vehicles with fuel consumption measurements for urban, extra-urban and combined (equivalent to city and highway mpg measurements
in the U.S.) driving conditions.        Chemical Regulations     
   North America       In the U.S., the EPA and several states have introduced regulations or legislation related to the selection and use of safer chemical alternatives, green chemistry and product stewardship initiatives as
have several provinces in Canada. These initiatives will give broad regulatory authority over the use of certain chemical substances and potentially affect automobile manufacturers  responsibilities for vehicle life-cycle, including chemical
substance selection for product development and manufacturing. Although vehicles may not specifically be included in the regulations currently being developed, automotive sector effects are expected because substances that comprise components may be
included. These emerging regulations will potentially lead to increases in cost and supply chain complexity. California s  Safer Alternatives for Consumer Products  was the first of these regulations although implementation
requirements have been delayed beyond 2010.       Europe    
  In 2007 the EU implemented its regulatory requirements to register, evaluate, authorize and restrict the use of chemical substances
(REACH). This regulation requires chemical substances manufactured in or imported into the EU in quantities of one metric ton or more per year to be registered with the European Chemicals Agency before 2018. During REACH s pre-registration
phase, Old GM   
         18   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
and our suppliers registered those substances identified by the regulation. REACH is to be phased in over a 10 year period. During the implementation phase, REACH will require ongoing action from
manufacturers and importers of pure chemical substances, chemical preparations (mixtures), and articles. This will affect us, as an original equipment manufacturer (OEM), as well as our suppliers and other suppliers in the supply chain. Under REACH,
substances of very high concern may either require authorization for further use or may be restricted in the future. This could potentially increase the cost of certain alternative substances that are used to manufacture vehicles and parts or result
in a supply chain disruption when a substance is no longer available to meet production timelines. Our research and development initiatives may be diverted to address future REACH requirements. In order to maintain compliance, we are continually
monitoring the implementation of REACH and its effect on our suppliers and the automotive industry.        Safety
       New motor vehicles and motor vehicle equipment sold in the U.S. are required to meet certain safety standards
promulgated by the NHTSA. The National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act of 1966 authorized the NHTSA to determine these standards and the schedule for implementing them. In the case of a vehicle defect that creates an unreasonable risk to motor
vehicle safety or if a vehicle or item of motor vehicle equipment does not comply with a safety standard, the manufacturer is required to notify owners and provide a remedy. We are required to report certain information relating to certain customer
complaints, warranty claims, field reports and notices and claims involving property damage, injuries and fatalities in the U.S. and claims involving fatalities outside the U.S., as well as information concerning safety recalls and other safety
campaigns outside the U.S.      We are subject to certain safety standards and recall regulations in the markets outside the U.S.
These standards often have the same purpose as the U.S. standards, but may differ in their requirements and test procedures. From time to time, other countries pass regulations which are more stringent than U.S. standards. Many countries require
type approval while the U.S. and Canada require self-certification.        Vehicular Noise Control     
  Vehicles we manufacture and sell may be subject to noise emission regulations.   
  In the U.S., passenger cars and light-duty trucks are subject to state and local motor vehicle noise regulations. We are committed to
designing and developing our products to meet these noise regulations. Since addressing different vehicle noise regulations established in numerous state and local jurisdictions is not practical, we attempt to identify the most stringent
requirements and validate to those requirements. In the rare instances where a state or local noise regulation is not covered by the composite requirement, a waiver of the requirement is requested and to date the resolution of these matters has not
resulted in significant cost or other material adverse effects to us. Medium to heavy-duty trucks are regulated at the federal level. Federal truck regulations preempt all United States state or local noise regulations for trucks over 10,000 lbs.
gross vehicle weight rating.      Outside the U.S., noise regulations have been established by authorities at the national and
supranational level (e.g., EC or UN ECE for Europe). We believe that our vehicles meet all applicable noise regulations in the markets where they are sold.      While current noise emission regulations serve to regulate maximum allowable noise levels, proposals have been made to regulate minimum noise levels. These proposals stem from concern that vehicles that
are relatively quiet, specifically hybrids, may not be heard by the sight-impaired. In the U.S., the Pedestrian Safety Enhancement Act was signed into law in January 2011 which requires NHTSA to study and then issue rulemaking on the minimum safe
level of sound for hybrid and electrical vehicles. In Japan, the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport has issued guidelines on the performance and nature of any external audible pedestrian alert system, if fitted to a vehicle. The UN ECE
is evaluating the use of a version of the Japanese guideline as an interim measure, pending further study. We are committed to design and manufacture vehicles to comply with potential noise emission regulations that may come from these proposals.
       Potential Effect of Regulations        We are actively working on aggressive near-term and long-term plans to develop and bring to market technologies designed to further reduce emissions, mitigate remediation expenses related to environmental
liabilities, improve fuel efficiency, monitor and   
         19   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
enhance the safety features of our vehicles and provide additional value and benefits to our customers. This is illustrated by our commitment to marketing more hybrid vehicles, our accelerated
commitment to developing electrically powered vehicles, our use of biofuels in our expanded portfolio of FlexFuel vehicles and enhancements to conventional internal combustion engine technology which have contributed to the fuel efficiency of our
vehicles. The conversion of many of our manufacturing facilities to landfill-free status has shown our commitment to mitigate potential environmental liability. We believe that the development and global implementation of new, cost-effective energy
technologies in all sectors is the most effective way to improve energy efficiency, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and mitigate environmental liabilities.      Despite these advanced technology efforts, our ability to satisfy fuel economy,
CO   2    and other emissions requirements is contingent on various
future economic, consumer, legislative and regulatory factors that we cannot control and cannot predict with certainty. If we are not able to comply with specific new requirements, which include higher CAFE standards and state CO   2    requirements such as those imposed by the AB 1493 Rules, then we could
be subject to sizeable civil penalties or have to restrict product offerings drastically to remain in compliance. Environmental liabilities, for which we may be responsible, are not reasonably estimable and could be substantial. Violations of safety
or emissions standards could result in the recall of one or more of our products. In turn, any of these actions could have substantial adverse effects on our operations, including facility idling, reduced employment, increased costs and loss of
revenue.        Pension Legislation        We are subject to a variety of federal rules and regulations, including the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA) and the Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA), which govern
the manner in which we fund and administer our pensions for our retired employees and their spouses. The PPA is designed, among other things, to more appropriately reflect the fair value of pension assets and liabilities in order to determine
funding requirements. The Pension Relief Act of 2010 provides us with additional options to amortize any shortfall amortization base for U.S. hourly and salaried qualified pension plans over seven years with amortization starting two years after the
election of this relief or 15 years. While we do not need to make an election at this time, we expect to evaluate these options for the 2010 and 2011 plan years in the future. We do not have any required contributions in 2011. If we decide to elect
one of these options, it could provide us with the flexibility to defer and potentially reduce the size of any minimum funding requirements for future years. We also maintain pension plans for employees in a number of countries outside the U.S.,
which are subject to local laws and regulations.        Export Control     
  We are subject to U.S. export control laws and regulations, including those administered by the U.S. Departments of State, Commerce, and
Treasury. Most countries in which we do business have applicable export controls. Our Office of Export Compliance and global Export Compliance Officers are responsible for working with our business units to ensure compliance with these laws and
regulations. Non-U.S. export controls are likely to become increasingly significant to our business as we develop our research and development operations on a global basis. If we fail to comply with applicable export compliance regulations, we and
our employees could be subject to criminal and civil penalties and, under certain circumstances, loss of export privileges and debarment from doing business with the U.S. government and the governments of other countries.   
   Significant Transactions    
    Public Offering        In November and December 2010 we consummated a public offering of 550 million shares of our common stock and 100 million shares of our Series B Preferred Stock and listed our common stock on the
New York Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange and listed our Series B Preferred Stock on the New York Stock Exchange. We received net proceeds of $4.9 billion from the offering of the Series B Preferred Stock.   
         20   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     Purchase of Series A Preferred Stock and Contributions to Pension Plans
       In December 2010 we used proceeds received from our Series B Preferred Stock offering along with $1.2 billion cash on
hand to purchase 84 million shares of our Series A Preferred Stock from the UST for a purchase price of $2.1 billion and make a $4.0 billion cash contribution to our U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans. In January 2011 we contributed
61 million shares of our common stock to our U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans valued at $2.2 billion for funding purposes. Refer to the section of this report entitled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
  Specific Management Initiatives  for additional information about the purchase of Series A Preferred Stock and contributions to U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans.   
    Secured Revolving Credit Facility        In October 2010 we entered into a five year, $5.0 billion secured revolving credit facility. While we do not believe that we will be required to draw on the secured revolving credit facility to fund
operating activities, the facility is expected to provide additional liquidity and financing flexibility. Refer to the section of this report entitled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition   Liquidity and
Capital Resources   Secured Revolving Credit Facility  for additional information about the secured revolving credit facility.        Acquisition of AmeriCredit        On October 1, 2010 we completed
the acquisition of AmeriCredit for cash of approximately $3.5 billion.        363 Sale     
  On July 10, 2009, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Old GM and
three of its domestic direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the Sellers). The 363 Sale was consummated in accordance with the Purchase Agreement, between us and the Sellers, and pursuant to the Bankruptcy Court s sale order dated
July 5, 2009 (Purchase Agreement). Refer to the section of this report entitled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Chapter 11 Proceedings and the 363 Sale  for additional
information about the 363 Sale.      In connection with the 363 Sale, we also entered into a secured note agreement, as amended
(VEBA Note Agreement) with the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust (New VEBA) and issued the notes thereunder (VEBA Notes) to the New VEBA in the principal amount of $2.5 billion on July 10, 2009. The VEBA Notes had an implied interest rate of
9.0% per annum and were scheduled to be repaid in three equal installments of $1.4 billion on July 15 of 2013, 2015 and 2017. In October 2010, we repaid in full the outstanding amount (together with accreted interest thereon) of the VEBA
Notes of $2.8 billion.        Agreements with UST and EDC     
  On July 10, 2009 we entered into a secured credit agreement with the UST (as amended, UST Credit Agreement) and assumed debt of $7.1
billion Old GM incurred under the DIP Facility (as subsequently defined). Through our wholly-owned subsidiary General Motors of Canada (GMCL), we entered into an amended and restated loan agreement (Canadian Loan Agreement) with Export Development
of Canada (EDC) and assumed a CAD $1.5 billion (equivalent to $1.3 billion when entered into) term loan maturing on July 10, 2015 (Canadian Loan). Proceeds of the DIP Facility of $16.4 billion were deposited in escrow, to be distributed to us
at our request if certain conditions were met and returned to us after the UST Loans and the Canadian Loan were repaid in full. Immediately after entering into the UST Credit Agreement, we made a partial pre-payment due to the termination of the
U.S. government sponsored warranty program, reducing the principal balance to $6.7 billion.      In April 2010 we used funds from
our escrow account to repay in full the outstanding amount of the UST Loans of $4.7 billion and GMCL repaid in full the then-outstanding amount of the Canadian Loan of $1.1 billion. Both loans were repaid prior to maturity. Following our repayment
of the UST Loans and the Canadian Loan, our remaining funds of $6.6 billion that were held in escrow   
         21   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
became unrestricted. Refer to the section of this report entitled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital
Resources   UST Loans and Canadian Loan  for additional information about the UST Loans and Canadian Loan.   
    Agreement with Delphi Corporation        In July 2009, we entered into the Delphi Master Distribution Agreement (DMDA) with Delphi Corporation (Delphi) and other parties. Under the DMDA, we agreed to acquire Nexteer, which supplies us and other
OEMs with steering systems and columns, and four domestic facilities that manufacture a variety of automotive components, primarily sold to us. We and several third party investors agreed to acquire substantially all of Delphi s remaining
assets through New Delphi and certain excluded assets and liabilities have been retained by a Delphi entity to be sold or liquidated. In October 2009, we consummated the transaction contemplated by the DMDA with Delphi, New Delphi, Old GM and other
sellers and other buyers that are party to the agreement, as more fully described in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements. Refer to the section of this report entitled  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations   Specific Management Initiatives   Resolution of Delphi Matters  for a description of the terms of the DMDA and related agreements.       Employees       At December 31, 2010 we employed 202,000 employees, of
whom 135,000 (67%) were hourly employees and 67,000 (33%) were salaried employees. The following table summarizes worldwide employment (in thousands):       

(b)  
  Decrease in GME primarily relates to the sale of Saab, employees located within Russia and Uzbekistan transferred from our GME segment to our GMIO segment and
restructuring initiatives in Belgium, Germany, Spain and the United Kingdom in the year ended December 31, 2010.         
 
  At December 31, 2010 49,000 of our U.S. employees (or 64%) were represented by unions, of which 48,000 employees were represented by
the UAW. Many of our employees outside the U.S. were represented by various unions. At December 31, 2010, we had 400,000 U.S. hourly and 120,000 U.S. salaried retirees, surviving spouses and deferred vested participants.   
         22   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Executive Officers of the Registrant    
  The names and ages as of February 28, 2011 of our executive officers, and their positions and offices with General Motors are as
follows:       

Name and (Age)    
      
     Positions and Offices     
 
    Daniel F. Akerson (62)   
      
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
 
    Stephen J. Girsky (48)   
      
  Vice Chairman, Corporate Strategy, Business Development, Global Product Planning, and Global Purchasing and Supply Chain   
 
    Christopher P. Liddell (52)   
      
  Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer   
 
    Thomas G. Stephens (62)   
      
  Vice Chairman and Global Chief Technology Officer   
 
    Jaime Ardila (55)   
      
  GM Vice President   President, South America   
 
    Timothy E. Lee (60)   
      
  GM Vice President   President, International Operations   
 
    David N. Reilly (61)   
      
  GM Vice President   President, Europe   
 
    Mark L. Reuss (47)   
      
  GM Vice President   President, North America   
 
    Mary T. Barra (49)   
      
  GM Senior Vice President, Global Product Development   
 
    Michael P. Millikin (62)   
      
  GM Senior Vice President and General Counsel   
 
    Daniel Ammann (38)   
      
  GM Vice President, Finance and Treasurer   
 
    Selim Bingol (50)   
      
  GM Vice President, Global Communications   
 
    Nicholas S. Cyprus (57)   
      
  GM Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer   
 
    Joel Ewanick (50)   
      
  GM Vice President and Global Chief Marketing Officer   
 
    Terry S. Kline (49)   
      
  GM Vice President, Information Technology and Chief Information Officer       There are no family relationships, as defined in Item 401 of Regulation S-K, between any of the officers named above, and there is no arrangement or understanding between any of the officers named
above and any other person pursuant to which he or she was selected as an officer. Each of the officers named above was elected by the Board of Directors or a committee of the Board to hold office until the next annual election of officers and until
his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. The Board of Directors elects the officers immediately following each annual meeting of the stockholders and may appoint other officers between annual
meetings.      Daniel F. Akerson was named Chief Executive Officer in September 2010 and Chairman in January 2011. He had been a
member of our Board of Directors since July 2009 and served on the Finance and Risk Policy (Chair) and Audit Committees. Before joining GM, he was Managing Director and Head of Global Buyout of The Carlyle Group from July 2009 until August 2010 and
Managing Director and Co-Head of the U.S. Buyout Fund from 2003 to 2009. Mr. Akerson previously served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of XO Communications, Inc. from 1999 to January 2003, Chairman of Nextel Communications from 1996 to
2001, and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from 1996 to 1999.      Stephen J. Girsky was named Vice Chairman of Corporate
Strategy, Business Development, Global Product Planning, and Global Purchasing and Supply Chain in February 2011. He had been Vice Chairman of Corporate Strategy and Business Development since March 2010. He had been a member of our Board of
Directors since July 2009 and served on the Finance and Risk Policy and Public Policy Committees. Prior to joining GM, he served as Senior Advisor to the Office of the Chairman of our company from December 2009 to February 2010 and President of
S. J. Girsky   Company an advisory firm, from January 2009 to March 1, 2010. From November 2008 to June 2009, Mr. Girsky was an advisor to the UAW. He served as President of Centerbridge Industrial Partners, LLC, an affiliate of
Centerbridge Partners, L.P., a private investment firm, from 2006 to 2009. Prior to joining Centerbridge, Mr. Girsky was a special advisor to the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of Old GM from 2005 to June 2006.
Mr. Girsky also served as lead director of Dana Holding Corporation (2008 to 2009). He has been a member of the Supervisory Board of Adam Opel GmbH since January 2010.      Christopher P. Liddell joined GM as Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer in January 2010 and leads our financial and accounting operations on a global basis. Before joining GM, Liddell was CFO for
Microsoft Corporation from May 2005 until December 2009, where he was responsible for leading their worldwide finance organization. Mr. Liddell had previously served as CFO at International Paper Company.   
         23   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   Thomas G. Stephens was named Vice Chairman and Global Chief Technology Officer in
January 2011. He had been associated with Old GM since 1969. Mr. Stephens had been Vice Chairman, Global Product Operations since December 2009, Vice Chairman, Global Product Development from July 2009 to December 2009 and Vice Chairman, Global
Product Development for Old GM since April 2009. In January 2007, Mr. Stephens was appointed Group Vice President Global Powertrain and Global Quality and became Executive Vice President in March 2008. He was named Group Vice
President for Global Powertrain in July 2001.      Jaime Ardila was named GM Vice President   President, South
America, effective July 2010. He had been associated with Old GM since 1984. He had served as President and Managing Director of GM Mercosur since November 2007, with responsibility for operations in Brazil, Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay,
Chile, Bolivia, and Peru. Prior to this position, he was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of GM Latin America, Africa and Middle East since March 2003.      Timothy E. Lee was named GM Vice President   President, International Operations in December 2009. He had been associated with Old GM since 1969. He had been Group Vice President, Global
Manufacturing and Labor since October 2009. He was named GM North America Vice President, Manufacturing in January 2006. Mr. Lee became Vice President of Manufacturing of GM Europe, in 2002.   
  David N. Reilly was named GM Vice President   President, Europe in December 2009. He had been associated with Old GM since
1975. He had been Executive Vice President, GM International Operations since August 2009. He was appointed Group Vice President and President of GM Asia Pacific in July 2006 and had previously been President and Chief Executive Officer of GM
Daewoo after leading our transition team in the formation of GM Daewoo beginning in January 2002. Mr. Reilly served as Vice President for Sales, Marketing, and Aftersales of GM Europe beginning in August 2001.   
  In December 2006 Mr. Reilly was charged with regard to certain alleged violations of South Korean labor laws. The criminal charges
are based on the alleged illegal engagement of certain workers employed by an outsourcing agency in production activities at GM Daewoo, in which we own a majority interest. The charges were filed against Mr. Reilly in his capacity as the most
senior GM executive in South Korea and the company s Representative Director, who under South Korean law is the most senior member of management of a stock corporation, and is the person typically named as the individual respondent or defendant
in any legal action brought against such company. These charges constitute a criminal offense under the laws of South Korea but would not constitute a criminal offense in the United States. Mr. Reilly filed a formal request for trial to defend
against the charges and was acquitted on February 19, 2009. This judgment was subsequently overturned on December 23, 2010, and is currently under appeal.      Mark L. Reuss was named GM Vice President   President, North America in December 2009. He had been associated with Old GM since 1983. Before this appointment, he served briefly as Vice
President of Engineering. He managed our operations in Australia and New Zealand as the President and Managing Director of GM Holden, Ltd., from February 2008 until July 2009. In October 2005, Reuss was appointed Executive Director of North America
vehicle systems and architecture, and the following year, he was named Executive Director of global vehicle integration, safety, and virtual development. In June 2001 he was named Executive Director, Architecture Engineering and GM Performance
Division.      Mary T. Barra was named GM Senior Vice President, Global Product Development in February 2011. She had been Vice
President, Global Human Resources from July 2009 to December 2010 and associated with Old GM since 1980. Prior to this appointment she had been Vice President, Global Manufacturing Engineering since February 2008. She had been Executive Director,
Vehicle Manufacturing Engineering since January 2005, with global responsibility for General Assembly; Controls, Conveyors, Robotics and Welding; Paint and Polymer, and Advanced Vehicle Development Centers; and Industrial Engineering, Global
Manufacturing System Implementation, and Pre-Production Operations.      Michael P. Millikin was appointed GM Senior Vice
President and General Counsel in February 2011, with overall global responsibility for the legal affairs of GM. He had been Vice President and General Counsel from July 2009 to January 2011 and associated with Old GM since 1977. Mr. Millikin
was appointed Assistant General Counsel in June 2001 and became Associate General Counsel in June 2005. He is a member of the Board of Directors of GM Daewoo and the Supervisory Board of Adam Opel GmbH.   
         24   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   Daniel Ammann was named GM Vice President, Finance and Treasurer of General Motors
Company in April 2010. Before joining GM, he was Managing Director and Head of Industrial Investment Banking for Morgan Stanley, a position he held since 2004. During his 11 years at Morgan Stanley, he was instrumental in many high profile
assignments spanning a variety of technology, service, and manufacturing clients.      Selim Bingol was appointed GM Vice
President, Global Communications in March 2010, with overall responsibility for our global communications. Most recently, he served as Senior Vice President and senior partner with Fleishman-Hillard, where he specialized as a senior
communications strategist to large international clients across diverse industries. He was Senior Vice President-Corporate Communications at AT T Corporation from December 2004 until August 2007.   
  Nicholas S. Cyprus was named GM Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in August 2009. He had been associated with
Old GM since December 2006, when he became Controller and Chief Accounting Officer. Prior to joining Old GM, he was Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer for the Interpublic Group of Companies from May 2004 to March 2006.
From 1999 to 2004, Mr. Cyprus was Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer at AT T Corporation.      Joel
Ewanick was named Global Chief Marketing Officer in December 2010 and became GM Vice President in February 2011. Working in close collaboration with the regional presidents, he has responsibility for our brands globally, ensuring consistent
representation for all brands. He had served as Vice President U.S. Marketing since joining GM in May, 2010. He previously served as Vice President of Marketing for Hyundai Motor America since February 2007. Prior to Hyundai Mr. Ewanick had
been Director of Brand Planning for The Richards Group since June 2004.      Terry S. Kline was named GM Vice President,
Information Technology and Chief Information Officer in October 2009. He had been associated with Old GM since December 2000. Previously Mr. Kline was the Global Product Development Process Information Officer and was responsible for
coordinating product development process re-engineering activities and the implementation of associated information systems across our business sectors. From December 2004 until December 2007, he served as the Chief Information Officer for GM Asia
Pacific.       Segment Reporting Data       Operating segment data and principal geographic area data for the year ended December 31, 2010 (Successor); July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 (Successor); January 1, 2009 through
July 9, 2009 (Predecessor); and the year ended December 31, 2008 (Predecessor) are summarized in Note 35 to our consolidated financial statements.       Website Access to Our Reports       Our internet website address is www.gm.com.
     Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports
filed or furnished pursuant to section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) are available free of charge through our website as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with, or
furnished to, the SEC.      In addition to the information about us and our subsidiaries contained in this Form 10-K, information
about us can be found on our website, including information on our corporate governance principals. Our website, and information included in or linked to our website are not part of this 2010 Form 10-K. The public may read and copy the materials we
file with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549.      The public may obtain
information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. Additionally, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information. The address of the
SEC s website is www.sec.gov.      *  *  *  *  *  *  *   

         25   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
      Item 1A. Risk Factors    
  We face a number of significant risks and uncertainties in connection with our operations. Our business, results of operations and
financial condition could be materially adversely affected by the factors described below. While we describe each risk separately, some of these risks are interrelated and certain risks could trigger the applicability of other risks described below.
       Our business is highly dependent on sales volume. Global vehicle sales have declined significantly from their peak
levels, and there is no assurance that the global automobile market will recover in the near future or that it will not suffer a significant further downturn.        Our business and financial results are highly sensitive to sales volume, as demonstrated by the effect of sharp declines in vehicle sales on our and Old GM s business in the U.S. since 2007 and
globally since 2008. Vehicle sales in the U.S. have fallen significantly on an annualized basis since their peak in 2007, and sales globally have shown steep declines on an annualized basis since their peak in January 2008. Many of the economic and
market conditions that drove the drop in vehicle sales, including declines in real estate values, unemployment, tightened credit markets, depressed consumer confidence and weak housing markets, continue to affect sales. Recent concerns over levels
of sovereign indebtedness have contributed to a renewed tightening of credit markets in some of the markets in which we do business. Although vehicle sales began to recover in certain of our markets in the three months ended December 31, 2009
and the recovery has continued through December 31, 2010, the recovery in vehicle sales in certain of our markets, including North America, has been proceeding slowly and there is no assurance that this recovery in vehicle sales will continue
or spread across all our markets. Further, sales volumes may again decline severely or take longer to recover than we expect, and if they do, our results of operations and financial condition will be materially adversely affected.   
    Our ability to change public perception of our company and products is essential to our ability to attract a sufficient number of
consumers to consider our vehicles, particularly our new products, which is critical to our ability to achieve long-term profitability.        Our ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to entice consumers to consider our products when purchasing a new vehicle. The automotive industry, particularly in the U.S., is very
competitive, and our competitors have been very successful in persuading customers that previously purchased our products to purchase their vehicles instead as is reflected by our loss of market share over the past three years. We believe that this
is due, in part, to a negative public perception of our products in relation to those of some of our competitors. Changing this perception, including with respect to the fuel efficiency of our products, as well as the perception of our company in
light of Old GM s bankruptcy and our status as a recipient of aid under the Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP), will be critical to our long-term profitability. If we are unable to change public perception of our company and products,
especially our new products, including cars and crossovers, our results of operations and financial condition could be materially adversely affected.        Shortages of and volatility in the price of oil have caused and may have a material adverse effect on our business due to shifts in consumer vehicle demand.     
  Volatile oil prices in 2008 and 2009 contributed to weaker demand for some of Old GM s and our higher margin vehicles, especially
our fullsize sport utility vehicles, as consumer demand shifted to smaller, more fuel-efficient vehicles, which provide lower profit margins and in recent years represented a smaller proportion of Old GM s and our sales volume in North America.
Fullsize pick-up trucks, which are generally less fuel efficient than smaller vehicles, represented a higher percentage of Old GM s and our North American sales during 2008 and 2009 compared to the total industry average percentage of fullsize
pick-up truck sales in those periods. Demand for traditional sport utility vehicles and vans also declined during the same periods. Any increases in the price of oil in the U.S. or in our other markets or any sustained shortage of oil, including as
a result of political instability in the Middle East and African nations, could weaken the demand for such vehicles, which could reduce our market share in affected markets, decrease profitability, and have a material adverse effect on our business.
       The pace of introduction and market acceptance of new vehicles is important to our success, and the frequency of new
vehicle introductions and vehicle improvements may be materially adversely affected by reductions in capital expenditures.        Our competitors have introduced new and improved vehicle models designed to meet consumer expectations and will continue to do so. Our profit margins, sales volumes, and market shares may decrease if we
are unable to produce models that compare favorably   
         26   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
to these competing models. If we are unable to produce new and improved vehicle models on a basis competitive with the models introduced by our competitors, including models of smaller vehicles,
demand for our vehicles may be materially adversely affected. Further, the pace of our development and introduction of new and improved vehicles depends on our ability to implement successfully improved technological innovations in design,
engineering, and manufacturing, which requires extensive capital investment. Any capital expenditure cuts in these areas that were made in the past or that we may determine to implement in the future to reduce costs and conserve cash could reduce
our ability to develop and implement improved technological innovations going forward, which may materially reduce demand for our vehicles.        Our future competitiveness and ability to achieve long-term profitability depends on our ability to control our costs, which requires us to successfully implement restructuring initiatives
throughout our automotive operations.        We are continuing to implement a number of cost reduction and productivity
improvement initiatives in our automotive operations, including labor modifications and substantial restructuring initiatives for our European operations. Our future competitiveness depends upon our continued success in implementing these
restructuring initiatives throughout our automotive operations, especially in North America and Europe. While some of the elements of cost reduction are within our control, others such as interest rates or return on investments, which influence our
expense for pensions, depend more on external factors, and there can be no assurance that such external factors will not materially adversely affect our ability to reduce our structural costs. Reducing costs may prove difficult due to our focus on
increasing advertising and our belief that engineering expenses necessary to improve the performance, safety, and customer satisfaction of our vehicles are likely to increase.        Failure of our suppliers, due to difficult economic conditions affecting our industry, to provide us with the systems, components, and parts that we need to manufacture our automotive products and
operate our business could result in a disruption in our operations and have a material adverse effect on our business.     
  We rely on many suppliers to provide us with the systems, components, and parts that we need to manufacture our automotive products and
operate our business. In recent years a number of these suppliers have experienced severe financial difficulties and solvency problems, and some have sought relief under the Bankruptcy Code or similar reorganization laws. This trend intensified in
2009 due to the combination of general economic weakness, sharply declining vehicle sales, and tightened credit availability that has affected the automotive industry generally. Suppliers may encounter difficulties in obtaining credit or may receive
an opinion from their independent public accountants regarding their financial statements that includes a statement expressing substantial doubt about their ability to continue as a going concern, which could trigger defaults under their financings
or other agreements or impede their ability to raise new funds.      When comparable situations have occurred in the past,
suppliers have attempted to increase their prices, pass through increased costs, alter payment terms, or seek other relief. In instances where suppliers have not been able to generate sufficient additional revenues or obtain the additional financing
they need to continue their operations, either through private sources or government funding, which may not be available, some have been forced to reduce their output, shut down their operations, or file for bankruptcy protection. Such actions would
likely increase our costs, create challenges to meeting our quality objectives, and in some cases make it difficult for us to continue production of certain vehicles. To the extent we take steps in such cases to help key suppliers remain in
business, our liquidity would be adversely affected. It may also be difficult to find a replacement for certain suppliers without significant delay.        Increase in cost, disruption of supply, or shortage of raw materials could materially harm our business.        We use various raw materials in our business including steel, non-ferrous metals such as aluminum and copper, and precious metals such as platinum and palladium. The prices for these raw materials
fluctuate depending on market conditions. In recent years, freight charges and raw material costs increased. Substantial increases in the prices for our raw materials increase our operating costs and could reduce our profitability if we cannot
recoup the increased costs through increased vehicle prices. Some of these raw materials, such as corrosion-resistant steel, are only available from a limited number of suppliers. We cannot guarantee that we will be able to
  
         27   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
maintain favorable arrangements and relationships with these suppliers. An increase in the cost or a sustained interruption in the supply or shortage of some of these raw materials, which may be
caused by a deterioration of our relationships with suppliers or by events such as labor strikes, could negatively affect our net revenues and profitability to a material extent.   
    We operate in a highly competitive industry that has excess manufacturing capacity and attempts by our competitors to sell more
vehicles could have a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share, and operating results.        The
global automotive industry is highly competitive, and overall manufacturing capacity in the industry exceeds demand. Many manufacturers have relatively high fixed labor costs as well as significant limitations on their ability to close facilities
and reduce fixed costs. Our competitors may respond to these relatively high fixed costs by attempting to sell more vehicles by adding vehicle enhancements, providing subsidized financing or leasing programs, offering option package discounts or
other marketing incentives, or reducing vehicle prices in certain markets. Manufacturers in lower cost countries such as China and India have emerged as competitors in key emerging markets and announced their intention of exporting their products to
established markets as a bargain alternative to entry-level automobiles. These actions have had, and are expected to continue to have, a significant negative effect on our vehicle pricing, market share, and operating results, and present a
significant risk to our ability to enhance our revenue per vehicle.        Our competitors may be able to benefit from the
cost savings offered by industry consolidation or alliances.        Designing, manufacturing and selling vehicles is capital
intensive and requires substantial investments in manufacturing, machinery, research and development, product design, engineering, technology and marketing in order to meet both consumer preferences and regulatory requirements. Large OEMs are able
to benefit from economies of scale by leveraging their investments and activities on a global basis across brands and nameplates. If our competitors consolidate or enter into other strategic agreements such as alliances, they may be able to take
better advantage of these economies of scale. We believe that competitors may be able to benefit from the cost savings offered by consolidation or alliances, which could adversely affect our competitiveness with respect to those competitors.
Competitors could use consolidation or alliances as a means of enhancing their competitiveness or liquidity position, which could also materially adversely affect our business.   
    Our business plan and other obligations require substantial liquidity, and inadequate cash flow could materially adversely affect
our financial condition and future business operations.        We will require substantial liquidity to support our business
plan and meet other funding requirements. We expect total engineering and capital spending of $15.0 billion in 2011 as we continue to refresh and broaden our product portfolio, increase our sales, and develop advanced technologies, with continued
substantial expenditures on engineering and capital spending in subsequent years. At December 31, 2010 we have debt maturities and capital lease obligations of $9.9 billion through 2015, which include GM Financial. We also anticipate continued
expenditures to implement long-term cost savings and restructuring plans, including our Opel/Vauxhall restructuring plan. In addition to the foregoing liquidity needs, we also have minimum liquidity covenants in our secured revolving credit
facility, which require us to maintain at least $4.0 billion in consolidated global liquidity and at least $2.0 billion in consolidated U.S. liquidity. Refer to  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources  for a further discussion of these liquidity requirements.      If our
liquidity levels approach the minimum liquidity levels necessary to support our normal business operations, we may be forced to raise additional capital on terms that may not be favorable, curtail engineering and capital spending, and reduce
research and development and other programs that are important to the future success of our business. A reduction in engineering and capital and research and development spending would negatively affect our ability to meet planned product launches
and to refresh our product line-up at the pace contemplated in our business plan. If this were to happen, our future revenue and profitability could be negatively affected.      Although we believe we possess sufficient liquidity to operate our business, our ability to maintain adequate liquidity over the long-term will depend significantly on the volume, mix and quality of our
vehicle sales and our ability to minimize operating expenses. Our liquidity needs are sensitive to changes in each of these and other factors.   
         28   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     As part of our business plan, we have reduced compensation for our most highly
paid executives and have reduced the number of our management and non-management salaried employees, and these actions may materially adversely affect our ability to hire and retain salaried employees.     
  As part of the cost reduction initiatives in our business plan, and pursuant to the direction of the Special Master for TARP Executive
Compensation (the Special Master), the form and timing of the compensation for our most highly paid executives is not competitive with that offered by other major corporations. Furthermore, while we have repaid in full our indebtedness under the UST
Credit Agreement, the executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of Section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (EESA), including the Interim Final Rule implementing Section 111 (the Interim Final Rule),
will continue to apply to us for the period specified in the EESA and the Interim Final Rule. Certain of the covenants in the UST Credit Agreement will continue to apply to us until the earlier to occur of (1) us ceasing to be a recipient of
Exceptional Financial Assistance, as determined pursuant to the Interim Final Rule or any successor or final rule, or (2) UST ceasing to own any direct or indirect equity interests in us. The effect of Section 111 of EESA, the Interim
Final Rule and the covenants is to restrict the compensation that we can provide to our top executives and prohibit certain types of compensation or benefits for any employees. At the same time, we have substantially decreased the number of salaried
employees so that the workload is shared among fewer employees and in general the demands on each salaried employee are increased. Companies in similar situations have experienced significant difficulties in hiring and retaining highly skilled
employees, particularly in competitive specialties. Given our compensation structure and increasing job demands, there is no assurance that we will continue to be able to hire and retain the employees whose expertise is required to execute our
business plan while at the same time developing and producing vehicles that will stimulate demand for our products.        Our
plan to reduce the number of our retail channels and brands and to consolidate our dealer network may reduce our total sales volume and our market share and not result in the cost savings we anticipate.     
  As part of our business plan we will focus our resources in the U.S. on four brands: Chevrolet, Cadillac, Buick and GMC. We completed the
sale of Saab in February 2010 and Saab GB in May 2010, and have completed the wind down of our Pontiac, Saturn and HUMMER brands. We have recently completed the federal arbitration process concerning dealer reinstatement and at December 31,
2010 we have reduced the total number of our U.S. dealerships to 4,500. We anticipate that this reduction in retail outlets, brands, and dealers will result in cost savings over time, but there is no assurance that we will realize all the savings
expected. We also anticipate our sales volume and market share will increase over time, but it is also possible that our market share could decline in the short-term and beyond because of these reductions in brands and dealers which may adversely
affect our results of operations.        Our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various European
countries, but we may not succeed in doing so, and our failure to restructure these operations in a cost-effective and non-disruptive manner could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations.     
  Our business plan contemplates that we restructure our operations in various European countries, and we are actively working to
accomplish this. Restructurings, whether or not ultimately successful, can involve significant expense and disruption to the business as well as labor disruptions, which can adversely affect the business. The restructuring of our European operations
will require us to invest additional funds and require significant management attention. In September 2010 we committed up to $4.2 billion through an intercompany facility and equity commitments to fund this restructuring and Opel/Vauxhall s
ongoing cash requirements. We cannot assure you that any of our contemplated restructurings will be completed or achieve the desired results, and if we cannot successfully complete such restructurings, we may choose to, or the directors of the
relevant entity may be compelled to, or creditors may force us to, seek relief for our various European operations under applicable local bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, or similar laws, where we may lose control over the outcome of the
restructuring process due to the appointment of a local receiver, trustee, or administrator (or similar official) or otherwise and which could result in a liquidation and us losing all or a substantial part of our interest in the business.
  
         29   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     Our U.S. defined benefit pension plans are currently underfunded, and our pension
funding obligations could increase significantly due to a reduction in funded status as a result of a variety of factors, including weak performance of financial markets, declining interest rates, investment decisions that do not achieve adequate
returns, and investment risk inherent in our investment portfolio.        Our future funding obligations for our U.S.
defined benefit pension plans qualified with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) depend upon the future performance of assets placed in trusts for these plans, the level of interest rates used to determine funding levels, the level of benefits
provided for by the plans and any changes in government laws and regulations. Our employee benefit plans currently hold a significant amount of equity and fixed income securities. A detailed description of the investment funds and strategies is
shown in Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements, which also describes significant concentrations of risk to the plan investments. Due to Old GM s contributions to the plans and to the strong performance of these assets during prior
periods, the U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans were consistently overfunded from 2005 through 2007, which allowed Old GM to maintain a surplus without making additional contributions to the plans. However, the funded status subsequently
deteriorated due to a combination of factors. Adverse equity and credit markets reduced the market value of plan assets, while the present value of pension liabilities rose significantly in response to declines in the discount rate, the effect of
separation programs and increases in the level of pension benefits and number of beneficiaries. This increase in beneficiaries was partially due to the inclusion of certain Delphi hourly employees. As a result of these adverse factors, our U.S.
defined benefit pension plans were underfunded on a U.S. GAAP basis by $12.4 billion at December 31, 2010.      The defined
benefit pension plans are accounted for on an actuarial basis, which requires the selection of various assumptions, including an expected rate of return on plan assets and a discount rate. In the U.S., in the year ended December 31, 2010
interest rates on high quality corporate bonds decreased.      The next pension funding valuation to be prepared based on the
requirements of the PPA will be as of October 1, 2010. In December 2010 we made a $4.0 billion cash contribution to our U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans and in January 2011 we contributed 61 million shares of our common stock to our U.S.
hourly and salaried pension plans valued at $2.2 billion for funding purposes. The contributed shares qualify as a plan asset for funding purposes immediately, and will qualify as a plan asset for accounting purposes when certain restrictions are
removed, which is expected in 2011. A hypothetical funding valuation at December 31, 2010, using the 3-Segment rate at May 31, 2010 for the funding valuation of the plan year beginning October 1, 2010 and assuming the
December 31, 2010 Full Yield Curve funding interest rate for all future funding valuations projects contributions of $2.3 billion and $1.2 billion in 2015 and 2016. Our potential funding requirements are described in  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Contractual Obligations and Other Long-Term Liabilities.       If the total values of the assets held by our pension plans decline and/or the returns on such assets underperform our return assumptions, our pension expenses would generally increase and could
materially adversely affect our financial position. Changes in interest rates that are not offset by contributions, asset returns and/or hedging activities could also increase our obligations under such plans. If local legal authorities increase the
minimum funding requirements for our pension plans outside the U.S., we could be required to contribute more funds, which would negatively affect our cash flow. At December 31, 2010 our non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans were underfunded on
a U.S. GAAP basis by $9.8 billion.      Due to the complexity and magnitude of our investments, additional risks exist. Examples
include significant changes in investment policy, insufficient market capacity to complete a particular investment strategy, and an inherent divergence in objectives between the ability to manage risk in the short term and inability to quickly
rebalance illiquid and long-term investments.      If we are unable to meet our required funding obligations for our U.S. pension
plans under the terms imposed by regulators at a given point in time, we would need to request a funding waiver from the IRS. If the waiver were granted, we would have the opportunity to make up the missed funding, with interest to the plan.
Additional periods of missed funding could further reduce the plans  funded status, resulting in limitations on plan amendments and lump sum payouts from the plans. Continued deterioration in the plans  funded status could result in
benefit accrual elimination. These actions could materially adversely affect our relations with our employees and their labor unions.   
         30   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     If adequate financing on acceptable terms is not available through Ally Financial
or other sources to our customers and dealers, distributors, and suppliers to enable them to continue their business relationships with us, our business could be materially adversely affected.     
  Our customers and dealers require financing to purchase a significant percentage of our global vehicle sales. Historically, Ally
Financial has provided most of the financing for our and Old GM s dealers and a significant amount of financing for our and Old GM s customers. Due to recent conditions in credit markets, particularly later in 2008, retail customers and
dealers experienced severe difficulty in accessing the credit markets. As a result the number of vehicles sold or leased declined rapidly in the second half of 2008, with lease contract volume dropping significantly by the end of 2008. This had a
significant adverse effect on Old GM vehicle sales overall because many of its competitors had captive financing subsidiaries that were better capitalized than Ally Financial during 2008 and 2009 and thus were able to offer consumers subsidized
financing and leasing offers.      Similarly, the reduced availability of Ally Financial wholesale dealer financing (in the second
half of 2008 and 2009), the increased cost of such financing, and the limited availability of other sources of dealer financing due to the general weakness of the credit market has caused and may continue to cause dealers to modify their plans to
purchase vehicles from us.      Because of recent modifications to our commercial agreements with Ally Financial, Ally Financial
no longer is subject to contractual wholesale funding commitments or retail underwriting targets. In addition, Ally Financial s credit rating has declined in recent years. This may negatively affect its access to funding and therefore its
ability to provide adequate financing at competitive rates to our customers and dealers. A number of other factors could negatively affect Ally Financial s business and financial condition and therefore its ability to provide adequate financing
at competitive rates. These factors include regulations to which Ally Financial is subject as a result of its bank holding company status, disruptions in Ally Financial s funding sources and access to credit markets, Ally Financial s
significant indebtedness, adverse conditions in the residential mortgage market and housing markets that have adversely affected Ally Financial because of its mortgage business, increases or decreases in interest rates, changes in currency exchange
rates and fluctuations in valuations of investment securities held by Ally Financial.        Our failure to successfully
develop our own captive financing unit, including through GM Financial, could leave us at a disadvantage to our competitors that have their own captive financing subsidiaries and that therefore may be able to offer consumers and dealers financing
and leasing on better terms than our customers and dealers are able to obtain.        Many of our competitors operate and
control their own captive financing subsidiaries. If any of our competitors with captive financing subsidiaries are able to continue to offer consumers and dealers financing and leasing on better terms than our customers and dealers are able to
obtain, consumers may be more inclined to purchase our competitors  vehicles and our competitors  dealers may be better able to stock our competitors  products.      On October 1, 2010 we completed our acquisition of AmeriCredit, which we subsequently renamed General Motors Financial Company, Inc. through which we offer leasing and sub-prime financing for our
customers. Our failure to successfully develop our own captive financing unit, including through GM Financial, could result in our loss of customers to our competitors with their own captive financing subsidiaries and could adversely affect our
dealers  ability to stock our vehicles if they are not able to obtain necessary financing at competitive rates from other sources.        We intend to rely on our new captive financing unit, GM Financial, to support additional consumer leasing of our vehicles and additional sales of our vehicles to consumers requiring sub-prime
vehicle financing, and GM Financial faces a number of business, economic and financial risks that could impair its access to capital and negatively affect its business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options
to consumers to support additional sales of our vehicles.        GM Financial is subject to various risks that could
negatively affect its business, operations and access to capital and therefore its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options at competitive rates to consumers of our vehicles. Because we intend to rely on GM Financial to serve as an
additional source of leasing and sub-prime financing options for consumers, any impairment of GM Financial s ability to provide such leasing or sub-prime financing would negatively affect our efforts to expand our market penetration
  
         31   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
among consumers who rely on leasing and sub-prime financing options to acquire new vehicles. The factors that could adversely affect GM Financial s business and operations and impair its
ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing at competitive rates include:       

The availability of borrowings under its credit facilities to finance its loan and lease origination activities pending securitization;

Its ability to transfer loan receivables to securitization trusts and sell securities in the asset-backed securities market to generate cash
proceeds to repay its credit facilities and purchase additional loan receivables;          

The performance of loans in its portfolio, which could be materially affected by delinquencies, defaults or prepayments;      

Its ability to implement its strategy with respect to desired loan origination volume and effective use of credit risk management techniques and
servicing strategies;          

Its ability to effectively manage risks relating to sub-prime automobile receivables;      

Wholesale auction values of used vehicles; and      

Fluctuations in interest rates.         The above factors, alone or in combination, could negatively affect GM Financial s business and operations and its ability to provide leasing and sub-prime financing options to consumers to support
additional sales of our vehicles.        The UST (or its designee) owns a substantial interest in us, and its interests may
differ from those of our other stockholders.        The UST owns 32.0% of our outstanding shares of common stock as of
February 15, 2011. As a result of this stock ownership interest, the UST has the ability to exert significant influence, through its power to vote for the election of our directors, over various matters. To the extent the UST elects to exert
such significant influence over us, its interests (as a government entity) may differ from those of our other stockholders and it may influence, through its ability to vote for the election of our directors, matters including:   

The selection, tenure and compensation of our management;      

Our business strategy and product offerings;          

Our relationship with our employees, unions and other constituencies; and      

Our financing activities, including the issuance of debt and equity securities.      
  In particular, the UST may have a greater interest in promoting U.S. economic growth and jobs than other stockholders of the Company. For
example, while we have repaid in full our indebtedness under the UST Credit Agreement, a covenant that continues to apply until the earlier of December 31, 2014 or the UST has been paid in full the total amount of all UST invested capital
requires that we use our commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure, subject to exceptions, that our manufacturing volume in the United States is consistent with specified benchmarks.   
  In the future we may also become subject to new and additional laws and government regulations regarding various aspects of our business
as a result of participation in the TARP program and the U.S. government s ownership in our business. These regulations could make it more difficult for us to compete with other companies that are not subject to similar regulations.   
    Our secured revolving credit facility as well as the UST Credit Agreement and the Canadian Loan Agreement contain significant
covenants that may restrict our ability and the ability of our subsidiaries to take actions management believes are important to our long-term strategy.        Our secured revolving credit facility contains representations, warranties and covenants customary for facilities of its nature, including negative covenants restricting us from incurring liens,
consummating mergers or sales of assets and incurring secured   
         32   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
indebtedness, and restricting us from making certain payments, in each case, subject to exceptions and limitations. Availability under the secured revolving credit facility is subject to
borrowing base limitations. The secured revolving credit facility contains minimum liquidity covenants, which require us to maintain at least $4.0 billion in consolidated global liquidity and at least $2.0 billion in consolidated U.S. liquidity.
     While we have repaid in full our indebtedness under the UST Credit Agreement, the executive compensation and corporate
governance provisions of Section 111 of the EESA, including the Interim Final Rule, will continue to apply to us for the period specified in the EESA and the Interim Final Rule. Certain of the covenants in the UST Credit Agreement will continue
to apply to us until the earlier to occur of (1) us ceasing to be a recipient of Exceptional Financial Assistance, as determined pursuant to the Interim Final Rule or any successor or final rule, or (2) UST ceasing to own any direct or
indirect equity interests in us. The effect of Section 111 of EESA, the Interim Final Rule and the covenants is to restrict the compensation that we can provide to our top executives and prohibit certain types of compensation or benefits for
any employees. Similarly, covenants in our wholly-owned subsidiary GMCL s Canadian Loan Agreement with the EDC limit compensation and benefits for Canadian employees.      The UST Credit Agreement contains a covenant requiring us to use our commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure that our manufacturing volume conducted in the United States is consistent with at least
90% of the projected manufacturing level (projected manufacturing level for this purpose being 1,934,000 units in 2011, 1,998,000 units in 2012, 2,156,000 units in 2013 and 2,260,000 units in 2014), absent a material adverse change in our business
or operating environment which would make the commitment non-economic. In the event that such a material adverse change occurs, the UST Credit Agreement provides that we will use commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure that the volume of
United States manufacturing is the minimum variance from the projected manufacturing level that is consistent with good business judgment and the intent of the commitment. This covenant survives our repayment of the UST Loans and remains in effect
through December 31, 2014 unless the UST receives total proceeds from debt repayments, dividends, interest, preferred stock redemptions and common stock sales equal to the total dollar amount of all UST invested capital.   
  UST invested capital totaled $49.5 billion, representing the cumulative amount of cash received by Old GM from the UST under the UST Loan
Agreement and the DIP Facility, excluding $361 million which the UST loaned to Old GM under the warranty program and which was repaid on July 10, 2009. This balance also did not include amounts advanced under the UST Ally Financial Loan as the
UST exercised its option to convert this loan into Ally Financial Preferred Membership Interests previously held by Old GM in May 2009. At December 31, 2010 the UST had received cumulative proceeds of $23.1 billion from debt repayments,
interest payments, Series A Preferred Stock dividends, the Series A Preferred Stock redemption and proceeds from the sale of common stock. The UST s invested capital less proceeds received totals $26.4 billion.   
  To the extent we fail to comply with any of the covenants in the UST Credit Agreement that continue to apply to us, the UST is entitled
to seek specific performance and the appointment of a court-ordered monitor acceptable to the UST (at our sole expense) to ensure compliance with those covenants. Compliance with the manufacturing volume covenant could require us to increase
production volumes in our U.S. plants, shift production from low-cost locations to the U.S. or refrain from shifting production from U.S. plants to low-cost locations.      The Canadian Loan Agreement and related agreements include certain covenants requiring GMCL to meet certain annual Canadian production volumes expressed as ratios to total overall production volumes in
the U.S. and Canada and to overall production volumes in the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA) region. The targets cover vehicles and specified engine and transmission production in Canada. These agreements also include covenants on annual
GMCL capital expenditures and research and development expenses. In the event a material adverse change occurs that makes the fulfillment of these covenants non-economic (other than a material adverse change caused by the actions or inactions of
GMCL), there is an undertaking that the lender will consider adjustments to mitigate the business effect of the material adverse change. These covenants survive GMCL s repayment of the loans and certain of the covenants have effect through
December 31, 2016.      Compliance with the covenants contained in our secured revolving credit facility as well as the
surviving provisions of the UST Credit Agreement and the Canadian Loan Agreement could restrict our ability to take actions that management believes are important to our   
         33   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
long-term strategy. If strategic transactions we wish to undertake are prohibited, our ability to execute our long-term strategy could be materially adversely affected. Furthermore, monitoring
and certifying our compliance with the surviving provisions of the UST Credit Agreement and the Canadian Loan Agreement requires a high level of expense and management attention on a continuing basis.   
    Our planned investment in new technology in the future is significant and may not be funded at anticipated levels and, even if
funded at anticipated levels, may not result in successful vehicle applications.        We intend to invest significant
capital resources to support our products and to develop new technology. In addition, we plan to invest heavily in alternative fuel and advanced propulsion technologies between 2011 and 2012, largely to support our planned expansion of hybrid and
electric vehicles, consistent with our announced objective of being recognized as the industry leader in fuel efficiency. Moreover, if our future operations do not provide us with the liquidity we anticipate, we may be forced to reduce, delay, or
cancel our planned investments in new technology.      In some cases the technologies that we plan to employ, such as hydrogen
fuel cells and advanced battery technology, are not yet commercially practical and depend on significant future technological advances by us and by suppliers. For example, in November 2010 we began producing the Chevrolet Volt, an electric car,
which requires battery technology that has not yet proven to be commercially viable. There can be no assurance that these advances will occur in a timely or feasible way, that the funds that we have budgeted for these purposes will be adequate, or
that we will be able to establish our right to these technologies. However, our competitors and others are pursuing similar technologies and other competing technologies, in some cases with more money available, and there can be no assurance that
they will not acquire similar or superior technologies sooner than we do or on an exclusive basis or at a significant price advantage.        New laws, regulations, or policies of governmental organizations regarding increased fuel economy requirements and reduced greenhouse gas emissions, or changes in existing ones, may have a
significant effect on how we do business.        We are affected significantly by governmental regulations that can increase
costs related to the production of our vehicles and affect our product portfolio. We anticipate that the number and extent of these regulations, and the related costs and changes to our product lineup, will increase significantly in the future. In
the U.S. and Europe, for example, governmental regulation is primarily driven by concerns about the environment (including greenhouse gas emissions), vehicle safety, fuel economy, and energy security. These government regulatory requirements could
significantly affect our plans for global product development and may result in substantial costs, including civil penalties. They may also result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which can affect revenue.
     CAFE provisions in the EISA mandate fuel economy standards beginning in the 2011 model year that would increase to at least
35 mpg by 2020 on a combined car and truck fleet basis, a 40% increase over current levels. California is implementing AB 1493 which will require increased fuel economy. This California program has standards currently established for the 2009 model
year through the 2016 model year. Fourteen additional states and the Province of Quebec have also adopted the California greenhouse gas standards.      In May 2009 President Obama announced his intention for the federal government to implement a harmonized federal program to regulate fuel economy and greenhouse gases. He directed the EPA and the United
States Department of Transportation (DOT) to work together to create standards through a joint rulemaking for control of emissions of greenhouse gases and for fuel economy. In the first phase, these standards would apply to passenger cars,
light-duty trucks, and medium-duty passenger vehicles built in model years 2012 through 2016. CARB has agreed that compliance with EPA s greenhouse gas standards will be deemed compliance with the California greenhouse gas standards for the
2012 through 2016 model years. The EPA and the NHTSA, on behalf of DOT, issued their final rule to implement this new federal program in April 2010. We have committed to work with EPA, the NHTSA, the states, and other stakeholders in support of a
strong national program to reduce oil consumption and address global climate change.      We are committed to meeting or exceeding
these regulatory requirements, and our product plan of record projects compliance with the anticipated federal program through the 2016 model year. We expect that to comply with these standards we will be required to
  
         34   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
sell a significant volume of hybrid or electrically powered vehicles throughout the U.S., as well as implement new technologies for conventional internal combustion engines, all at increased cost
levels. There is no assurance that we will be able to produce and sell vehicles that use such technologies on a profitable basis, or that our customers will purchase such vehicles in the quantities necessary for us to comply with these regulatory
programs.      The EU passed legislation, effective in April 2009 to begin regulating vehicle CO   2    emissions beginning in 2012. The legislation sets a target of a fleet
average of 95 grams per kilometer for 2020, with the requirements for each manufacturer based on the weight of the vehicles it sells. Additional measures have been proposed or adopted in Europe to regulate features such as tire rolling resistance,
vehicle air conditioners, tire pressure monitors, gear shift indicators, and others. At the national level, 17 EU Member States have adopted some form of fuel consumption or carbon dioxide-based vehicle taxation system, which could result in
specific market requirements for us to introduce technology earlier than is required for compliance with the EU emissions standards.      Other governments around the world, such as Canada, South Korea, and China are also creating new policies to address these same issues. As in the U.S., these government policies could significantly affect
our plans for product development. Due to these regulations, we could be subject to sizable civil penalties or have to restrict product offerings drastically to remain in compliance. The regulations will result in substantial costs, which could be
difficult to pass through to our customers, and could result in limits on the types of vehicles we sell and where we sell them, which could affect our operations, including facility closings, reduced employment, increased costs, and loss of revenue.
       A significant amount of our operations are conducted by joint ventures that we cannot operate solely for our benefit.
       Many of our operations, particularly in emerging markets, are carried on by joint ventures such as SGM. In joint
ventures, we share ownership and management of a company with one or more parties who may not have the same goals, strategies, priorities, or resources as we do. Joint ventures are intended to be operated for the equal benefit of all co-owners,
rather than for our exclusive benefit. Operating a business as a joint venture often requires additional organizational formalities as well as time-consuming procedures for sharing information and making decisions. In joint ventures, we are required
to pay more attention to our relationship with our co-owners as well as with the joint venture, and if a co-owner changes, our relationship may be materially adversely affected. The benefits from a successful joint venture are shared among the
co-owners, so that we do not receive all the benefits from our successful joint ventures.        Our business in China is
subject to aggressive competition and is sensitive to economic and market conditions.        Maintaining a strong position
in the Chinese market is a key component of our global growth strategy. The automotive market in China is highly competitive, with competition from many of the largest global manufacturers and numerous smaller domestic manufacturers. As the size of
the Chinese market continues to increase, we anticipate that additional competitors, both international and domestic, will seek to enter the Chinese market and that existing market participants will act aggressively to increase their market share.
Increased competition may result in price reductions, reduced margins and our inability to gain or hold market share. In addition, our business in China is sensitive to economic and market conditions that drive sales volume in China. If we are
unable to maintain our position in the Chinese market or if vehicle sales in China decrease or do not continue to increase, our business and financial results could be materially adversely affected.   
    Restrictions in our labor agreements could limit our ability to pursue or achieve cost savings through restructuring initiatives,
and labor strikes, work stoppages, or similar difficulties could significantly disrupt our operations.        Substantially
all of the hourly employees in our U.S., Canadian, and European automotive operations are represented by labor unions and are covered by collective bargaining agreements, which usually have a multi-year duration. Many of these agreements include
provisions that limit our ability to realize cost savings from restructuring initiatives such as plant closings and reductions in workforce. Our current collective bargaining agreement with the UAW will expire in September 2011, and while the UAW
has agreed to a commitment not to strike prior to 2015, any UAW strikes, threats of strikes, or other resistance in the future could materially adversely affect our business as well as impair our ability to implement further measures to reduce costs
and improve production   
         35   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
efficiencies in furtherance of our North American initiatives. A lengthy strike by the UAW that involves all or a significant portion of our manufacturing facilities in the United States would
have a material adverse effect on our operations and financial condition, particularly our liquidity.        Despite the
formation of our new company, we continue to have indebtedness and other obligations. Our obligations together with our cash needs may require us to seek additional financing, minimize capital expenditures, or seek to refinance some or all of our
debt.        Despite the formation of our new company, we continue to have indebtedness and other obligations, including
significant liabilities to our underfunded defined benefit pension plans. Our current and future indebtedness and other obligations could have several important consequences. For example, they could:   

Require us to dedicate a larger portion of our cash flow from operations than we currently do to the payment of principal and interest on our
indebtedness and other obligations, which will reduce the funds available for other purposes such as product development;          

Make it more difficult for us to satisfy our obligations;      

Make us more vulnerable to adverse economic and industry conditions and adverse developments in our business;      

Limit our ability to withstand competitive pressures;      

Limit our ability to fund working capital, capital expenditures, and other general corporate purposes; and      

Reduce our flexibility in responding to changing business and economic conditions.      
  Future liquidity needs may require us to seek additional financing or minimize capital expenditures. There is no assurance that either of
these alternatives would be available to us on satisfactory terms or on terms that would not require us to renegotiate the terms and conditions of our existing debt agreements.   
    Our failure to comply with the covenants in the agreements governing our present and future indebtedness could materially adversely
affect our financial condition and liquidity.        Several of the agreements governing our indebtedness, including our
secured revolving credit facility and other loan facility agreements, contain covenants requiring us to take certain actions and negative covenants restricting our ability to take certain actions. In the past, we have failed to meet certain of these
covenants, including by failing to provide financial statements in a timely manner and failing certain financial tests. The Chapter 11 Proceedings and the change in control as a result of the 363 Sale triggered technical defaults in certain loans
for which we had assumed the obligations. A breach of any of the covenants in the agreements governing our indebtedness, if uncured, could lead to an event of default under any such agreements, which in some circumstances could give the lender the
right to demand that we accelerate repayment of amounts due under the agreement. Therefore, in the event of any such breach, we may need to seek covenant waivers or amendments from the lenders or to seek alternative or additional sources of
financing, and we cannot assure you that we would be able to obtain any such waivers or amendments or alternative or additional financing on acceptable terms, if at all. Refer to Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for additional
information on technical defaults and covenant violations. Any covenant breach or event of default could harm our credit rating and our ability to obtain additional financing on acceptable terms. The occurrence of any of these events could have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition and liquidity.        The ability of our new executive management team to
quickly learn the automotive industry and lead our company will be critical to our ability to succeed, and our business and results of operations could be materially adversely affected if they are unsuccessful.     
  We have substantially changed our executive management team in the recent past. We have a new Chief Executive Officer who started on
September 1, 2010 and a new Chief Financial Officer who started on January 1, 2010, both of whom have no prior outside   
         36   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
automotive industry experience. We have also promoted from within GM many new senior officers. It is important to our success that the new members of the executive management team
quickly understand the automotive industry and that our senior officers quickly adapt and excel in their new senior management roles. If they are unable to do so, and as a result are unable to provide effective guidance and leadership, our business
and financial results could be materially adversely affected.        We could be materially adversely affected by changes or
imbalances in foreign currency exchange and other rates.        Given the nature and global spread of our business, we have
significant exposures to risks related to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices, and interest rates, which can have material adverse effects on our business. For example, at times certain of our competitors have derived
competitive advantage from relative weakness of the Japanese Yen through pricing advantages for vehicles and parts imported from Japan to markets with more robust currencies like the U.S. and Western Europe. Similarly, a significant strengthening of
the Korean Won relative to the U.S. dollar or the Euro would affect the competitiveness of our Korean operations as well as that of certain Korean competitors. As yet another example, a relative weakness of the British Pound compared to the Euro has
an adverse effect on our results of operations in Europe. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, we translate our revenues and expenses outside the U.S. into U.S. Dollars using the average foreign currency exchange rate for the period
and the assets and liabilities using the foreign currency exchange rate at the balance sheet date. As a result, foreign currency fluctuations and the associated translations could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.
       Our businesses outside the U.S. expose us to additional risks that may materially adversely affect our business.
       The majority of our vehicle sales are generated outside the U.S. We are pursuing growth opportunities for our
business in a variety of business environments outside the U.S. Operating in a large number of different regions and countries exposes us to political, economic, and other risks as well as multiple foreign regulatory requirements that are subject to
change, including:       

Economic downturns in foreign countries or geographic regions where we have significant operations, such as China;      

Economic tensions between governments and changes in international trade and investment policies, including imposing restrictions on the
repatriation of dividends, especially between the United States and China;          

Foreign regulations restricting our ability to sell our products in those countries;      

Differing local product preferences and product requirements, including fuel economy, vehicle emissions, and safety;

Differing labor regulations and union relationships;      

Consequences from changes in tax laws;          

Difficulties in obtaining financing in foreign countries for local operations; and      

Political and economic instability, natural calamities, war, and terrorism.      
  The effects of these risks may, individually or in the aggregate, materially adversely affect our business.   
    New laws, regulations, or policies of governmental organizations regarding safety standards, or changes in existing ones, may have
a significant negative effect on how we do business.        Our products must satisfy legal safety requirements. Meeting or
exceeding government-mandated safety standards is difficult and costly because crashworthiness standards tend to conflict with the need to reduce vehicle weight in order to meet emissions and fuel economy standards. While we are managing our product
development and production operations on a global basis to reduce costs and lead times, unique national or regional standards or vehicle rating programs can result in additional costs for product development, testing, and manufacturing. Governments
often require the implementation of new requirements during the middle of a product cycle, which can be substantially more expensive than accommodating these requirements during the design of a new product.   
         37   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     The costs and effect on our reputation of product recalls could materially
adversely affect our business.        From time to time, we recall our products to address performance, compliance, or
safety-related issues. The costs we incur in connection with these recalls typically include the cost of the part being replaced and labor to remove and replace the defective part. In addition, product recalls can harm our reputation and cause us to
lose customers, particularly if those recalls cause consumers to question the safety or reliability of our products. Any costs incurred or lost sales caused by future product recalls could materially adversely affect our business. Conversely, not
issuing a recall or not issuing a recall on a timely basis can harm our reputation and cause us to lose customers for the same reasons as expressed above.        The sale or availability for sale of substantial amounts of our common stock could cause our common stock price to decline or impair our ability to raise capital.     
  Sales of a substantial number of shares of our common stock in the public market, or the perception that large sales could occur, or the
conversion of shares of our Series B Preferred Stock or the perception that conversion could occur, could depress the market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise capital through the sale of equity and equity-related
securities. At February 15, 2011 there are 1,560,743,059 shares of common stock issued and outstanding. At February 15, 2011 MLC holds a warrant to acquire 136,363,636 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $10.00 per share,
MLC holds another warrant to acquire 136,363,636 shares of our common stock at an exercise price of $18.33 per share, and the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust (New VEBA) holds a warrant to acquire 45,454,545 shares of our common stock at an
exercise price of $42.31 per share. Up to 151,520,000 shares of common stock, subject to anti-dilution, make-whole and other adjustments, will be issuable upon conversion of the shares of Series B Preferred Stock outstanding at February 15,
2011.      Of the 1,560,743,059 outstanding shares of common stock at February 15, 2011, the 549,700,000 shares of common
stock sold in the November and December 2010 public offering are freely tradable without restriction or further registration under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the Securities Act), unless those shares are held by any of our
 affiliates,  as that term is defined under Rule 144 of the Securities Act. Following the expiration of the applicable lock-up periods on May 13, 2011, the 950,300,000 outstanding shares of common stock held by the UST, Canada
Holdings, the New VEBA and MLC at February 15, 2011 may be eligible for resale under Rule 144 under the Securities Act subject to applicable restrictions under Rule 144. In addition, pursuant to the October 15, 2009 Equity
Registration Rights Agreement we entered into with the UST, Canada Holdings, the New VEBA, MLC, and our previous legal entity prior to our October 2009 holding company reorganization (which is now a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company)
(Equity Registration Rights Agreement), we have granted each of the UST, Canada Holdings, the New VEBA and MLC the right to require us in certain circumstances to file registration statements under the Securities Act covering additional resales of
our common stock and other equity securities (including the warrants) held by them and the right to participate in other registered offerings in certain circumstances. As restrictions on resale end or if these stockholders exercise their
registration rights or otherwise sell their shares, the market price of our common stock could decline.      In particular, the
UST, Canada Holdings, the New VEBA and MLC might sell a large number of the shares of our common stock and warrants to acquire our common stock that they hold, or, in the case of the New VEBA and MLC, exercise their warrants and then sell the
underlying shares of our common stock. Further, MLC might distribute shares of our common stock and warrants to acquire our common stock that it holds to its numerous creditors and other stakeholders pursuant to a plan of reorganization confirmed by
the Bankruptcy Court in the Chapter 11 Proceedings, and those creditors and other stakeholders might resell those shares and warrants. Such sales or distributions of a substantial number of shares of our common stock or warrants could adversely
affect the market price of our common stock.      Furthermore, on January 13, 2011 we contributed 60,606,061 shares of our
common stock to our U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans. The contributed shares qualify as a plan asset for funding purposes immediately, and will qualify as a plan asset for accounting purposes when certain restrictions are removed, which is
expected in 2011. In connection with such contribution, we entered into a Registration Rights Agreement dated January 13, 2011 with sub-trusts established under the U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans (Pension Plan Registration Rights
Agreement), whereby we granted the pension plans the right to require us in certain circumstances   
         38   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
to file registration statements under the Securities Act covering additional resales of those shares of our common stock held by them and the right to participate in other registered offerings in
certain circumstances. If the pension plans exercise their registration rights or otherwise sell their shares, the market price of our common stock could decline.        We have no current plans to pay dividends on our common stock, and our ability to pay dividends on our common stock may be limited.     
  We have no current plans to commence payment of a dividend on our common stock. Our payment of dividends on our common stock in the
future will be determined by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion and will depend on business conditions, our financial condition, earnings and liquidity, and other factors. So long as any share of our Series A Preferred Stock or Series B
Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution may be declared or paid on our common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends have been paid on our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock, subject to exceptions,
such as dividends on our common stock payable solely in shares of our common stock. In addition, our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock, subject to exceptions such as
dividends payable solely in shares of our common stock.      Any indentures and other financing agreements that we enter into in
the future may limit our ability to pay cash dividends on our capital stock, including our common stock. In the event that any of our indentures or other financing agreements in the future restricts our ability to pay dividends in cash on our common
stock, we may be unable to pay dividends in cash on our common stock unless we can refinance the amounts outstanding under those agreements.      In addition, under Delaware law, our Board of Directors may declare dividends on our capital stock only to the extent of our statutory  surplus  (which is defined as the amount equal to total
assets minus total liabilities, in each case at fair market value, minus statutory capital), or if there is no such surplus, out of our net profits for the then current and/or immediately preceding fiscal year. Further, even if we are permitted
under our contractual obligations and Delaware law to pay cash dividends on our common stock, we may not have sufficient cash to pay dividends in cash on our common stock.      *  *  *  *  *  *  
*         Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments    
  None   
  *  *  *  *  *  *  *         Item 2. Properties       Excluding our
automotive financing operations, at December 31, 2010 we had 106 locations in 25 states and 89 cities or towns in the United States excluding dealerships. Of these locations, 40 are manufacturing facilities, of which 11 are engaged in the final
assembly of our cars and trucks and other manufacture automotive components and power products. Of the remaining locations, 24 are service parts operations primarily responsible for distribution and warehouse functions, and the remainder are offices
or facilities primarily involved in engineering and testing vehicles. Leased properties are primarily composed of warehouses and administration, engineering and sales offices. The leases for warehouses generally provide for an initial period of five
to 10 years, based upon prevailing market conditions and may contain renewal options. Leases for administrative offices are generally for shorter periods.   
         39   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   We have 17 locations in Canada, and assembly, manufacturing, distribution, office or
warehousing operations in 61 other countries, including equity interests in associated companies which perform assembly, manufacturing or distribution operations. Leases for warehouses outside the United States have remaining lease terms ranging
from one to 12 years, many of which contain options to extend or terminate the lease. The major facilities outside the United States and Canada, which are principally vehicle manufacturing and assembly operations, are located in:   

Argentina   
      
           Colombia   
      
           Kenya   
      
           South Korea   
      
           Venezuela    
 
           Australia   
      
           Ecuador   
      
           Mexico   
      
           Spain   
      
           Vietnam    
 
           Belgium   
      
           Egypt   
      
           Poland   
      
           Thailand   

Brazil   
      
           Germany   
      
           Russia   
      
           United Kingdom   

China   
      
           India   
      
           South Africa   
      
           Uzbekistan   
      
       We, our subsidiaries, or associated companies in which we own an equity interest, own most of the
above facilities.      GM Financial s automotive financing and leasing operations lease facilities for administration and
regional credit centers. GM Financial has 21 facilities located in the United States and two facilities located in Canada. GM Financial also owns a servicing facility, which is located in the United States and included in total facilities located in
the United States.      Our properties include facilities which, in our opinion, are suitable and adequate for the manufacture,
assembly and distribution of our products.      *  *  *  *  *  *  *
        Item 3. Legal Proceedings       The following section summarizes material pending legal proceedings to which the Company is a party, other than ordinary routine litigation incidental to the business. We and the other defendants
affiliated with us intend to defend all of the following actions vigorously.        Canadian Export Antitrust Class Actions
       Approximately 80 purported class actions on behalf of all purchasers of new motor vehicles in the United States since
January 1, 2001, have been filed in various state and federal courts against General Motors Corporation, GMCL, Ford Motor Company, Chrysler, LLC, Toyota Motor Corporation, Honda Motor Co., Ltd., Nissan Motor Company, Limited, and Bavarian Motor
Works and their Canadian affiliates, the National Automobile Dealers Association, and the Canadian Automobile Dealers Association. The nearly identical complaints alleged that the defendant manufacturers, aided by the association defendants,
conspired among themselves and with their dealers to prevent the sale to U.S. citizens of vehicles produced for the Canadian market and sold by dealers in Canada. The complaints alleged that new vehicle prices in Canada are 10% to 30% lower than
those in the United States, and that preventing the sale of these vehicles to U.S. citizens resulted in the payment of higher than competitive prices by U.S. consumers. The complaints, as amended, sought injunctive relief under U.S. antitrust law
and treble damages under U.S. and state antitrust laws, but did not specify damages. The complaints further alleged unjust enrichment and violations of state unfair trade practices act. The federal court actions were consolidated for coordinated
pretrial proceedings under the caption  In re New Market Vehicle Canadian Export Antitrust Litigation Cases  in the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine, and the more than 30 California cases have been consolidated in the California
Superior Court in San Francisco County under the case captions  Belch v. Toyota Corporation, et al.  and  Bell v. General Motors Corporation.  Old GM s potential liability in these matters was not assumed by General Motors Company as
part of the 363 Sale, but GMCL remains subject to suit in all matters.      On March 5, 2004, the U.S. District Court for the
District of Maine issued a decision holding that the purported indirect purchaser classes failed to state a claim for damages under federal antitrust law but allowed a separate claim seeking to enjoin future alleged violations to continue. The U.S.
District Court for the District of Maine on March 10, 2006 certified a nationwide class of buyers and   
         40   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
lessees under Federal Rule 23(b)(2) solely for injunctive relief, and on March 21, 2007 stated that it would certify 20 separate statewide class actions for damages under various state law
theories under Federal Rule 23(b)(3), covering the period from January 1, 2001 to April 30, 2003. On March 28, 2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit reversed the certification of the injunctive class and ordered
dismissal of the injunctive claim and remanded to the U.S. District Court for the District of Maine for determination of several issues concerning federal jurisdiction and, if such jurisdiction still exists, for reconsideration of that class
certification on a more complete record. On July 2, 2009, the district court granted granted summary judgment to defendants. Plaintiffs did not appeal. As a result, the federal actions are concluded with respect to us.   
  In the California state court cases, the court certified a state-wide class after a class certification hearing on April 21, 2009.
Defendants  appeal to the appropriate appellate court was denied. Defendants filed other substantive motions for summary judgment, some of which were heard in January 2011 and others of which will be heard in March 2011 and at later dates. As a
result, the Honda and Nissan entities have been dismissed. The disposition of GMCL s motion for summary judgment remains undecided. In the Minnesota state court cases, the court granted summary judgment in the defendants  favor on
September 16, 2010. Plaintiffs did not appeal. A similar motion for summary judgment is under consideration by the court in the Arizona state court cases.        American Export Antitrust Class Actions        On September 25,
2007, a claim was filed in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice against GMCL and Old GM on behalf of a purported class of actual and intended purchasers of vehicles in Canada claiming that a similar alleged conspiracy was now preventing lower-cost
U.S. vehicles from being sold to Canadians. The plaintiffs have delivered their certification materials. An order staying claims against MLC was granted in November 2009. In December 2010 the plaintiffs/class counsel advised that they intend to file
further evidence from class members. The court has allowed the plaintiffs to file additional evidence by January 31, 2011. The plaintiffs filed additional affidavit materials, and GMCL is in the process of reviewing these affidavits. A decision
has not yet been made as to whether or not to cross-examine the affiants. The date for delivery of GMCL s responding material is March 21, 2011. A certification hearing has not yet been scheduled. No determination has been made that the
case may be maintained as a class action, and it is not possible to determine the likelihood of liability or reasonably ascertain the amount of any damages.        Canadian Dealer Class Action        On January 21, 2010, a claim was
filed in the Ontario Superior Court of Justice against GMCL for damages on behalf of a purported class of 215 Canadian General Motors dealers which entered into wind-down agreements with GMCL in May 2009. GMCL offered the plaintiff dealers the
wind-down agreements to assist the plaintiffs  exit from the GMCL Canadian dealer network upon the expiration of their GM Dealer Sales and Service Agreements (DSSAs) on October 31, 2010, and to assist the plaintiffs in winding down their
dealer operations in an orderly fashion. The plaintiff dealers allege that the DSSAs have been wrongly terminated by GMCL and that GMCL failed to comply with franchise disclosure obligations, breached its statutory duty of fair dealing and
unlawfully interfered with the dealers  statutory right to associate in an attempt to coerce the class member dealers into accepting the wind-down agreements. The plaintiff dealers claim that the wind-down agreements are void. GMCL is
vigorously defending the claims. A certification hearing was held in December 2010, and the decision on class certification was reserved. No determination has been made that the case may be maintained as a class action, and it is not possible to
determine the likelihood of liability or reasonably ascertain the amount of any damages.        OnStar Analog Equipment
Litigation        Our wholly-owned subsidiary OnStar Corporation (OnStar) is a party to more than 20 putative class actions
filed in various states, including Michigan, Ohio, New Jersey, Pennsylvania and California. All of these cases have been consolidated for pretrial purposes in a multi-district proceeding under the caption  In re OnStar Contract Litigation  in
the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan. The litigation arises out of the discontinuation by OnStar of services to vehicles equipped with analog hardware. OnStar was unable to provide services to such vehicles because the
cellular carriers which provide communication service to OnStar terminated analog service beginning in February 2008. In the various cases, the plaintiffs are seeking certification of nationwide or statewide classes of owners of vehicles currently
equipped with analog equipment, alleging various breaches of contract,   
         41   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
misrepresentation and unfair trade practices. No determination has been made as to whether class certification motions are appropriate, and it is not possible at this time to determine whether
class certification or liability is probable as to OnStar or to reasonably ascertain the amount of any liability. On August 2, 2010 plaintiffs filed a motion seeking to add General Motors LLC, our subsidiary, as an additional defendant, which
was denied by the court in an opinion dated January 25, 2011.        Patent Infringement Litigation     
  On July 10, 2009,  Kruse Technology Partnership v. General Motors Company  was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central
District of California. In  Kruse , the plaintiff alleged that we infringed three U.S. patents related to  Internal Combustion Engine with Limited Temperature Cycle  by making and selling diesel engines. The plaintiff did not make a
claim specifying damages in this case. However, in a similar case filed against Old GM in December 2008, plaintiff asserted that its royalty damages would be significantly more than $100 million. In April 2009, the plaintiff filed a separate
patent infringement action against DMAX, Inc., (DMAX) then a joint venture between Isuzu Diesel Services of America, Inc. and Old GM, and which is now a joint venture between Isuzu Diesel Services of America, Inc. and General Motors LLC. DMAX
manufactures and assembles mechanical and other components of Duramax diesel engines for sale to us. The plaintiff asserted that its royalty damages claim against DMAX, Inc. would exceed $100 million and requested an injunction in both the case
against DMAX and the case against General Motors LLC. The case was settled and an order dismissing the case was entered on November 5, 2010. The separate lawsuit against DMAX has also been dismissed.   
    Unintended Acceleration Class Actions        We were named as a co-defendant in two of the many class action lawsuits brought against Toyota arising from Toyota s recall of certain vehicles related to reports of unintended acceleration. The two
cases are  Nimishabahen Patel v. Toyota Motors North America, Inc. et al.  (filed in the United States District Court for the District of Connecticut on February 9, 2010)  and Darshak Shah v. Toyota Motors North America, Inc. et al. 
(filed in the United States District court for the District of Massachusetts on or about February 16, 2010). The 2009 and 2010 model year Pontiac Vibe, which was manufactured by a joint venture between Toyota and Old GM, included components
that were common with those addressed by the Toyota recall and were accordingly the subject of a parallel recall by us. Each case makes allegations regarding Toyota s conduct related to the condition addressed by the recall and asserts breaches
of implied and express warranty, unjust enrichment and violation of consumer protection statutes and seeks actual damages, multiple damages, attorneys fees, costs and injunctive relief on behalf of classes of vehicle owners which include owners of
2009 and 2010 model year Pontiac Vibes. The cases were consolidated in the multi-district proceeding pending in the Central District of California created to administer all cases in the Federal court system addressing Toyota unintended acceleration
issues. We believe that, with respect to the overwhelming majority of Pontiac vehicles addressed by the two cases, the claims asserted are barred by the Sale Approval Order entered by the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of
New York on July 5, 2009. On August 2, 2010, a consolidated complaint was filed in the multi-district proceeding and we were omitted from the list of named defendants. It now appears that the claims asserted will not be further pursued
against us and, absent future developments, we will discontinue reporting on this matter.        UAW VEBA Contribution Claim
       On April 6, 2010, the UAW filed suit against us in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan
claiming that we breached our obligation to contribute $450 million to the New VEBA. The UAW alleges that we were required to make this contribution pursuant to the UAW-Delphi-GM Memorandum of Understanding Delphi Restructuring dated
June 22, 2007. We have filed a motion in the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York asserting that the UAW s claim is barred by the bankruptcy court approved 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement and by other
orders issued by the bankruptcy court that preclude additional GM contributions to the New VEBA. We also maintain that Delphi s emergence from bankruptcy was not in the nature contemplated by the restructuring agreement and therefore, that
condition to any payment remains unfulfilled. We removed this case to the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in October 2010, seeking dismissal of the UAW s U.S. District Court lawsuit. The UAW has contested whether the Bankruptcy Court has jurisdiction and
on November 3, 2010, the U.S. District Court issued a stay of further proceedings until the issue of Bankruptcy Court jurisdiction is decided.   
         42   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     AmeriCredit Transaction Claims     
  On July 27, 2010  Robert Hatfield, Derivatively on behalf of AmeriCredit Corp v Clifton Morris, Jr. et al. was filed in the
district court for Tarrant County, Texas. General Motors Holdings, LLC and General Motors Company (the GM Entities) are two of the named defendants. Among other allegations, the complaint alleges that the individual defendants breached their
fiduciary duty with regard to the proposed transaction between AmeriCredit and GM. The GM Entities are accused of aiding and abetting the alleged breach of fiduciary duty by the individual defendants (officers and directors of AmeriCredit). Among
other relief, the complaint sought to enjoin the transaction from closing; however, no motion for an injunction was filed.      On
July 28, 2010  Labourers Pension Fund of Eastern and Central Canada, on behalf of itself and all others similarly situated v. AmeriCredit Corp, et al . was filed in the district court for Tarrant County, Texas. General Motors Company is
one of the named defendants. The plaintiff sought class action status and alleged that AmeriCredit and the individual defendants (officers and directors of AmeriCredit) breached their fiduciary duties in negotiating and approving the proposed
transaction between AmeriCredit and GM, and that GM aided and abetted the alleged breach of fiduciary duty. Among other relief, the complaint sought to enjoin both the transaction from closing as well as a shareholder vote on the proposed
transaction; however, no motion for an injunction was filed. On January 4, 2011, plaintiffs filed a notice of nonsuit, dismissing its claims without prejudice.      On or about August 6, 2010,  Carla Butler, Derivatively on behalf of AmeriCredit Corp v. Clifton Morris, Jr. et al.  was filed in the district court for Tarrant County, Texas. General Motors
Holdings, LLC and General Motors Company are among the named defendants. Like the previously filed  Hatfield  litigation related to the proposed AmeriCredit acquisition, the complaint initiating this case alleges that individual officers and
directors of AmeriCredit breached their fiduciary duties to AmeriCredit shareholders. The GM Entities are accused of breaching a fiduciary duty and aiding and abetting the individual defendants in usurping a corporate opportunity. Among other
relief, the complaint seeks to rescind the AmeriCredit transaction and sought to enjoin its consummation and also to award plaintiff costs and disbursements including attorneys  and expert fees; however, no motion for an injunction was filed.
     On September 1, 2010,  Douglas Mogle, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated v. AmeriCredit Corp., et
al.  was filed in the district court for Tarrant County, Texas. General Motors Company is among the named defendants. This complaint is similar to the  Labourers Pension Fund  complaint discussed above. On November 17, 2010, plaintiffs
filed a notice of nonsuit, dismissing its claims without prejudice.      The  Hatfield  and  Butler  cases have been
consolidated, and the plaintiffs have filed an amended consolidated complaint to include a claim for money damages. It is not possible to determine the likelihood of success or reasonably ascertain the amount of any damages, attorneys  fees or
costs that may be awarded.        Korean Labor Litigation     
  Commencing on or about September 29, 2010, current and former hourly employees of GM Daewoo, our majority-owned affiliate in the
Republic of Korea, filed six separate group actions in the Incheon District Court in Incheon, Korea. The cases allege that GM Daewoo failed to include certain allowances in its calculation of Ordinary Wages due under the Presidential Decree of the
Korean Labor Standards Act. GM Daewoo may receive additional claims by hourly employees in the future. Similar cases have been brought against other large employers in the Republic of Korea. This case is in its earliest stages and the scope of
claims asserted may change. However, based on a preliminary analysis of the claims currently asserted, the allegations of plaintiffs if accepted in their entirety represent a claim of approximately 517 billion Korean Won, which is approximately $454
million.      *  *  *  *  *  *  *   
     Item 4. Removed and Reserved       *  *  *  *  *  *  *   
         43   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
      PART II    
     Item 5.       Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer
Purchases of Equity Securities        Market Information       Shares of our common stock have only been publicly traded since November 18, 2010 when our common stock was listed and began trading on the New York Stock Exchange and the Toronto Stock Exchange. As
a result our table below only provides data with respect to the fourth quarter for our common stock.      Quarterly price ranges
of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange, the principal market in which the stock is traded are as follows:       

(a)  
  The quarterly price ranges for our common stock are based on high and low prices from intraday trades.     
   Holders       As of
February 15, 2011 we had a total of 1.6 billion issued and outstanding shares of common stock and a total of 318 million shares of common stock for which warrants are initially exercisable by two warrant holders of record. As of
February 15, 2011 there were 185 holders of record of our common stock.       Dividends    
  Since our formation, we have not paid any dividends on our common stock. We have no current plans to pay any dividends on our common
stock. So long as any share of our Series A or Series B Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution may be declared or paid on our common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends have been paid on our Series A and Series B
Preferred Stock, subject to exceptions, such as dividends on our common stock payable solely in shares of our common stock. Our secured revolving credit facility contains certain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends on our common stock,
subject to exceptions, such as dividends payable solely in shares of our common stock.      So long as any share of our Series A
Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution may be declared or paid on our Series B Preferred Stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends have been paid on our Series A Preferred Stock, subject to exceptions, such as dividends
on our Series B Preferred Stock payable solely in shares of our common stock.      Our payment of dividends in the future, if any,
will be determined by our Board of Directors and will be paid out of funds legally available for that purpose. Our payment of dividends in the future will depend on business conditions, our financial condition, earnings, liquidity and capital
requirements, the covenants in our new secured revolving credit facility, and other factors.   
         44   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Equity Compensation Plan Information    
  The table below contains information about securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans. The features of these
plans are discussed further in Note 31 to our consolidated financial statements (number of securities in millions).       

Plan Category    
      
   Number of 
Securities     To be Issued Upon     Exercise
of     Outstanding Options,     Warrants and Rights    

Weighted-Average     Exercise
 Price of     Outstanding Options,     Warrants and Rights (a)   

Number of 
Securities     Remaining Available     For Future
Issuance     Under Equity     Compensation Plans (b)   

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders   

General Motors Company 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan and Salary Stock Plan (c)   

17  

$  

58  

(a)  
  The awards under the General Motors Company 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan and Salary Stock Plan are restricted stock units. The restricted stock units do not have an
exercise price, and the awards will be payable in cash if settled prior to May 17, 2011, which is six months subsequent to our public offering. In limited situations certain executives could continue to settle their awards in cash due to tax
considerations of select countries.         

(b)  
  Excludes securities reflected in the first column,  Number of Securities to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options, Warrants and Rights. 

(c)  
  At December 31, 2010 all of our equity compensation plans were approved by security holders.     
   Repurchases of Securities       None of our issued common stock has been reacquired since its initial issuance on July 10, 2009.       Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities         Sales of Unregistered
Securities        On December 31, 2010, we awarded an aggregate of 238 thousand Restricted Stock Units (RSUs) to
global executives pursuant to our Salary Stock Plan (GMSSP) and 223 thousand shares, of which 137 thousand shares are outstanding as of December 31, 2010, of Restricted Stock to global executives pursuant to our 2009 Long-Term
Incentive Plan. The difference between the 223 thousand shares awarded and the 137 thousand shares outstanding was used to satisfy tax obligations relating to the awards. Each RSU under the GMSSP is the economic equivalent of one share of
our common stock. The RSUs do not have an expiration or exercise date or carry a conversion or exercise price. The awards will be settled in twelve equal, quarterly installments beginning on December 31, 2011. Each RSU is fully vested and
presents the right to receive one share of our common stock on the applicable settlement date. Under the GMSSP, the fair value of our common stock is the average of the high and low trading prices for our common stock as reported on the New York
Stock Exchange, on which our common stock is listed, on the date of the transaction. The shares of Restricted Stock were fully vested upon grant but are subject to restrictions on transfer until December 31, 2013. The securities described in
this paragraph were issued pursuant to written compensatory plans or arrangements with our employees in reliance on the exemption provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.   
    Contribution of Common Stock to U.S. Hourly and Salaried Pension Plans     
  On January 13, 2011 we completed the previously announced voluntary contribution of 61 million shares of our common stock to
U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans, valued at $2.2 billion for funding purposes. There were 41 million shares (valued at $1.5   
         45   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
billion) contributed to the hourly pension plan and 20 million shares (valued at $0.7 billion) to the salaried pension plan. This was a voluntary contribution above our required minimum
funding of the pension plans. However, we expect that the contribution will improve the funded status of the pension plans and therefore improve our risk profile. The contributed shares qualify as a plan asset for funding purposes immediately, and
will qualify as a plan asset for accounting purposes when certain transfer restrictions are removed, which is expected in 2011. The common stock was issued and contributed to the pension plan in an unregistered transaction in accordance with an
exemption under Section 4(2) of the Securities Act.       Use of Proceeds    
  In the three months ended December 31, 2010 we completed a public offering of 550 million shares of our common stock at a price
of $33.00 per share, or $18.1 billion, which shares of common stock were offered by the UST, Canada Holdings and the New VEBA, and 100 million shares of Series B Preferred Stock at a price of $50.00 per share, or $5.0 billion, which shares of
Series B Preferred Stock were offered by us. The following table sets forth the amounts registered and sold by each selling stockholder, the aggregate offering price of the sales, underwriters discounts and net proceeds before expenses to the
selling stockholders.       
    We registered and
sold 100 million shares of Series B Preferred stock for an aggregate offering price of $5.0 billion which, after underwriters  discounts of $138 million resulted in net proceeds to us of $4.9 billion. Each share of our Series B Preferred
Stock is convertible at the option of the holder at any time prior to December 1, 2013 into a minimum of 1.2626 shares of our common stock, and each share of Series B Preferred Stock will mandatorily convert on December 1, 2013 into a
number of shares of our common stock ranging from 1.2626 to 1.5152 shares depending on the applicable market value of our common stock. The conversion ratios for option and mandatory conversions are subject to anti-dilution, make-whole and other
adjustments. This offering was effected on November 17, 2010 pursuant to a Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-168919), which the SEC declared effective on such date. Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated and J.P. Morgan
Securities LLC acted as representatives of the several underwriters in the offering. We did not receive any of the proceeds from the sale of common stock, and we received net proceeds from the Series B Preferred Stock offering of $4.9 billion. We
used these proceeds, along with $1.2 billion of cash on hand, to purchase our Series A Preferred Stock held by the UST in the amount of $2.1 billion and make a cash contribution to our U.S. hourly and salary pension plans in an amount of $4.0
billion.      We estimate that our expenses for the offerings, excluding underwriting discounts and commissions in connection with
the sale of Series B Preferred Stock were $25.0 million, which does not reflect the agreement by the underwriters to reimburse us for a portion of our legal and road show costs and expenses in connection with the offering, up to a maximum aggregate
amount of $3.0 million. No offering expenses were paid directly or indirectly by us to any of our directors or officers (or their associates) or persons owning 10% or more of any class of our equity securities or to any other affiliates.   
  *  *  *  *  *  *  *   
         46   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
      Item 6.       Selected Financial Data    
   (Dollars in millions except per share amounts)        

(a)  
  All applicable Successor share, per share and related information has been adjusted retroactively for the three-for-one stock split effected on November 1, 2010.

(b)  
  At July 10, 2009 we applied fresh-start reporting following the guidance in Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 852,  Reorganizations  (ASC 852). The
consolidated financial statements for the periods ended on or before July 9, 2009 do not include the effect of any changes in the fair value of assets or liabilities as a result of the application of fresh-start reporting. Therefore, our
financial information at and for any period after July 10, 2009 is not comparable to Old GM s financial information.         

(c)  
  In November 2006 Old GM sold a 51% controlling ownership interest in Ally Financial, resulting in a significant decrease in total consolidated net sales and revenue.

47   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          

(e)  
  In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Old GM recorded Reorganization gains, net of $128.2 billion directly associated with the Chapter 11
Proceedings, the 363 Sale and the application of fresh-start reporting. Refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for additional detail.         

(f)  
  In September 2007 Old GM recorded full valuation allowances of $39.0 billion against net deferred tax assets in Canada, Germany and the United States.

(g)  
  In August 2007 Old GM completed the sale of the commercial and military operations of its Allison business. The results of operations, cash flows and the 2007 gain on
sale of Allison have been reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.         

(h)  
  Includes a charge related to the purchase of Series A Preferred Stock of $677 million in the year ended December 31, 2010.     

(i)  
  In December 2008 Old GM entered into the UST Loan Agreement, pursuant to which the UST agreed to provide a $13.4 billion UST Loan Facility.

(j)  
  In December 2010 GM Daewoo terminated a Korean Won 1.4 trillion (equivalent to $1.2 billion) credit facility following the repayment of the remaining $1.0 billion under
the facility.         

(k)  
  In December 2010 we purchased 84 million shares of our Series A Preferred Stock from the UST for a purchase price of $2.1 billion, which was equal to 102% of their
aggregate liquidation amount.         

(l)  
  Series B Preferred Stock was issued in a public offering in November and December 2010. The Series B Preferred Stock pays dividends at 4.75% and is convertible to
common stock at the option of the holder until December 1, 2013 the date on which all outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock will be mandatorily converted into common stock based on pre-defined conversion ratios that adjust based on the
share price of our common stock.         

(m)  
  In January 2007 Old GM recorded a decrease to Retained earnings of $425 million and a decrease of $1.2 billion to Accumulated other comprehensive loss in
accordance with the early adoption of the measurement provisions of ASC 715,  Compensation   Retirement Benefits  (ASC 715).         

(n)  
  In January 2007 Old GM recorded an increase to Retained earnings of $137 million with a corresponding decrease to its liability for uncertain tax positions in
accordance with ASC 740,  Income Taxes  (ASC 740).     
  *  *  *  *  *  *  *   
         48   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
      Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations       General Motors Company was formed by the UST in 2009 originally as a Delaware limited
liability company, Vehicle Acquisition Holdings LLC, and subsequently converted to a Delaware corporation, NGMCO, Inc. This company, which on July 10, 2009 acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of General
Motors Corporation and changed its name to General Motors Company, is sometimes referred to in this management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the periods on or subsequent to July 10, 2009 as
 we,   our,   us,   ourselves,  the  Company,   General Motors,  or  GM,  and is the successor entity solely for accounting and financial reporting purposes (Successor). General
Motors Corporation is sometimes referred to in this management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations, for the periods on or before July 9, 2009, as  Old GM.  Prior to July 10, 2009 Old GM
operated the business of the Company, and pursuant to the agreement with the SEC, as described in a no-action letter issued to Old GM by the SEC Staff on July 9, 2009 regarding our filing requirements and those of Motors Liquidation Company
(MLC), the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the financial statements and related information of Old GM as it is our predecessor entity solely for accounting and financial reporting purposes (Predecessor). On July 10, 2009
in connection with the 363 Sale, General Motors Corporation changed its name to Motors Liquidation Company, which is sometimes referred to in this management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations for the
periods on or after July 10, 2009 as  MLC.  MLC continues to exist as a distinct legal entity for the sole purpose of liquidating its remaining assets and liabilities.       Presentation and Estimates         Basis of Presentation
       This Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD A) should be
read in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements.      We analyze the results of our business through
our five segments, namely GMNA, GME, GMIO, GMSA and GM Financial.      In the year ended December 31, 2010 we changed our
managerial and financial reporting structure so that certain entities geographically located within Russia and Uzbekistan were transferred from our GME segment to our GMIO segment, and certain entities geographically located in Brazil, Argentina,
Colombia, Ecuador, Venezuela, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay were transferred from our GMIO segment to our newly created GMSA segment. We have retrospectively revised the segment presentation for all periods presented.   
   Change in Presentation of Financial Statements       In 2010 we changed the presentation of our consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of cash flows and certain footnotes to combine line items which were either of a related nature or not
individually material. We have made corresponding reclassifications to the comparable information for all periods presented.   
  Consistent with industry practice, market share information includes estimates of industry sales in certain countries where public
reporting is not legally required or otherwise available on a consistent basis.      On October 5, 2010 our Board of
Directors recommended a three-for-one stock split on shares of our common stock, which was approved by our stockholders on November 1, 2010. The stock split was effected on November 1, 2010.   
  Each stockholder s percentage ownership in us and proportional voting power remained unchanged after the stock split. All applicable
share, per share and related information for periods on or subsequent to July 10, 2009 has been adjusted retroactively to give effect to the three-for-one stock split.   
         49   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   On October 5, 2010 our Board of Directors recommended that we amend our Certificate
of Incorporation to increase the number of shares of common stock that we are authorized to issue from 2.5 billion shares to 5.0 billion shares and to increase the number of preferred shares that we are authorized to issue from 1.0 billion shares to
2.0 billion shares. Our stockholders approved these amendments on November 1, 2010, and they were effected on November 1, 2010.        Use of Estimates in the Preparation of the Financial Statements     
  The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP, which requires the use of estimates, judgments, and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses in the periods presented. We believe that the accounting estimates employed
are appropriate and the resulting balances are reasonable; however, due to the inherent uncertainties in making estimates, actual results could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to these balances in future periods.
      Overview    
    Our Company        Our company commenced operations on July 10, 2009 when we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumption of certain liabilities of Old GM through a 363 Sale under the
Bankruptcy Code. As a result of the 363 Sale and other recent restructuring and cost savings initiatives, we have improved our financial position and level of operational flexibility as compared to Old GM when it operated the business. We commenced
operations upon completion of the 363 Sale with a total amount of debt and other liabilities at July 10, 2009 that was $92.7 billion less than Old GM s total amount of debt and other liabilities at July 9, 2009. We reached a
competitive labor agreement with our unions, restructured our dealer network and reduced and refocused our brand strategy in the U.S. to our four brands.      In November and December of 2010 we consummated a public offering of 550 million shares of our common stock and 100 million shares of Series B Preferred Stock and listed both of these
securities on the New York Stock Exchange and the common stock on the Toronto Stock Exchange.       Automotive    
  We are a leading global automotive company. Our vision is to design, build and sell the world s best vehicles. We seek to
distinguish our vehicles through superior design, quality, reliability, telematics (wireless voice and data) and infotainment and safety within their respective segments. Our business is diversified across products and geographic markets. With a
global network of independent dealers we meet the local sales and service needs of our retail and fleet customers. Of our total 2010 vehicle sales volume, 73.6% was generated outside the United States, including 43.0% from emerging markets, such as
Brazil, Russia, India and China (collectively BRIC), which have recently experienced the industry s highest volume growth.   
  Our automotive business is organized into four geographically-based segments:   

GMNA, with sales, manufacturing and distribution operations in the U.S., Canada and Mexico and distribution operations in Central America and
the Caribbean, represented 31.3% of our total 2010 vehicle sales volume. In North America, we sell our vehicles through four brands   Chevrolet, GMC, Buick and Cadillac   which are manufactured at plants across the U.S., Canada and Mexico
and imported from other GM regions. In 2010, GMNA had the largest market share of any competitor in this market at 18.2%.          

GME has sales, manufacturing and distribution operations across Western and Central Europe. GME s vehicle sales volume, which in addition
to Western and Central Europe, includes Russia, the Commonwealth of Independent States and Eastern Europe represented 19.8% of our total 2010 vehicle sales volume. In Western and Central Europe, we sell our vehicles under
     
         50   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          

the Opel and Vauxhall (U.K. only) brands, which are manufactured in Europe, and under the Chevrolet brand, which is imported from South Korea where it is manufactured by GM Daewoo of which we own
70.1%. In 2010, GME had the number five market share in this market, at 8.8%.          

GMIO, with sales, manufacturing and distribution operations in Asia-Pacific, Russia, the Commonwealth of Independent States, Eastern Europe,
Africa and the Middle East, is our largest segment by vehicle sales volume. GMIO s vehicle sales volume, which includes Asia-Pacific, Africa and the Middle East represented 36.7% of our total 2010 vehicle sales volume including sales through
our joint ventures. In these regions, we sell our vehicles under the Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet, Daewoo, FAW, GMC, Holden, Isuzu, Jiefang, Opel and Wuling brands, and we plan to commence sales under the Baojun brand in 2011. In 2010, GMIO had the
second largest market share for this market at 8.8% and the number one market share in China. Of GMIO s vehicle sales volume 76.4% is from China in 2010. Our Chinese operations are primarily comprised of three joint ventures: SGM; of which we
own 49%, SGMW; of which we own 44% and FAW-GM; of which we own 50%.          

GMSA, with sales, manufacturing and distribution operations in Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador and Venezuela as well as sales activities in
Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay represented 12.2% of our total 2010 vehicle sales volume. In South America, we sell our vehicles under the Chevrolet, Suzuki and Isuzu brands. In 2010 GMSA had the largest market share for this market at
19.9% and the number three market share in Brazil. Of GMSA s vehicle sales volume 64.1% is from Brazil in 2010.         We offer a global vehicle portfolio of cars, crossovers and trucks. We are committed to leadership in vehicle design, quality, reliability, telematics and infotainment and safety, as well as to developing
key energy efficiency, energy diversity and advanced propulsion technologies, including electric vehicles with range extending capabilities such as the new Chevrolet Volt.       Automotive Financing       On October 1, 2010 we completed the acquisition
of AmeriCredit Corp. for cash of approximately $3.5 billion and changed its name to General Motors Financial Company, Inc.      GM
Financial specializes in purchasing retail automobile installment sales contracts originated by franchised and select independent dealers in connection with the sale of used and new automobiles. GM Financial generates revenue and cash flows
primarily through the purchase, retention, subsequent securitization and servicing of finance receivables. To fund the acquisition of receivables prior to securitization, GM Financial uses available cash and borrowings under its credit facilities.
GM Financial earns finance charge income on the finance receivables and pays interest expense on borrowings under its credit facilities. GM Financial periodically transfers receivables to securitization trusts that issue asset-backed securities to
investors. The securitization trusts are special purpose entities that are also variable interest entities that meet the requirements to be consolidated in the financial statements.   
    Our Strategy        Our vision is to design, build and sell the world s best vehicles. The primary elements of our strategy to achieve this vision are to:   

Deliver a product portfolio of the world s best vehicles, allowing us to maximize sales under any market conditions;

Sell our vehicles globally by targeting developed markets, which are projected to have increases in vehicle demand as the global economy
recovers, and further strengthening our position in high growth emerging markets;          

Improve revenue realization and maintain a competitive cost structure to allow us to remain profitable at lower industry volumes and across the
lifecycle of our product portfolio; and          

Maintain a strong balance sheet by reducing financial leverage given the high operating leverage of our business model.
     
         51   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   Our management team is focused on hiring new and promoting current talented employees
who can bring new perspectives to our business in order to execute on our strategy as follows:        Deliver quality
products.   We intend to maintain a broad portfolio of vehicles so that we are positioned to meet global consumer preferences. We plan to do this in several ways.   

Concentrate our design, engineering and marketing resources on fewer brands and architectures.  We plan to increase the volume of vehicles
produced from common global architectures to more than 50% of our total volumes in 2015 from less than 17% today. We expect that this initiative will result in greater investment per architecture and brand and will increase our product development
and manufacturing flexibility, allowing us to maintain a steady schedule of important new product launches in the future. We believe our four-brand strategy in the U.S. will continue to enable us to allocate higher marketing expenditures per brand.

Develop products across vehicle segments in our global markets.  We plan to develop vehicles in each of the key segments of the global
markets in which we compete. For example, in September 2010 we introduced the Chevrolet Cruze in the U.S. small car segment, an important and growing segment where we have historically been under-represented.      

Continued investment in a portfolio of technologies.  We will continue to invest in technologies that support energy diversity and energy
efficiency as well as in safety, telematics and infotainment technology. We are committed to advanced propulsion technologies and intend to offer a portfolio of fuel efficient alternatives that use energy sources such as petroleum, bio-fuels,
hydrogen and electricity, including the new Chevrolet Volt. We are committed to increasing the fuel efficiency of our vehicles with internal combustion engines through features such as cylinder deactivation, direct injection, variable valve timing,
turbo-charging with engine downsizing and six speed transmissions. For example, we expect the Chevrolet Cruze Eco to be capable of achieving an estimated 40 mpg on the highway with a traditional internal combustion engine. We are expanding our
telematics and infotainment offerings and, as a result of our OnStar service and our partnerships with companies such as Google, are in a position to deliver safety, security, navigation and connectivity systems and features.
          Sell our vehicles globally.   We will continue to compete in the largest and fastest growing
markets globally.       

Broaden GMNA product portfolio.  We plan to launch 13 new vehicles in GMNA across our four brands in 2011 and 2012, primarily in the
growing car and crossover segments, where, in some cases, we are under-represented, and an additional 29 new vehicles between 2013 and 2014. Launched vehicles in 2010 included the Chevrolet Matiz, Spark, Spark Lite and Volt, Cadillac CTS Coupe and
Buick Regal. We believe that we have achieved a more balanced portfolio in the U.S. market, where we maintained a sales volume mix of 36% from cars, 38% from trucks and 26% from crossovers in 2010 compared to 51% from trucks in 2006.

Refresh GME s vehicle portfolio.  To improve our product quality and product perception in Europe, by the start of 2012, we plan to
have 80% of our Opel/Vauxhall carlines volume refreshed such that the model stylings are less than three years old. We have four product launches scheduled in 2011. As part of our planned rejuvenation of Chevrolet s portfolio, which
increasingly supplements our Opel/Vauxhall brands throughout Europe, we are moving the entire Chevrolet lineup to new global architectures.          

Increase sales in GMIO, particularly in China.  We plan to continue to execute our growth strategies in countries where we already hold
strong positions, such as China, and to improve market share in other important markets, including South Korea, South Africa, Russia, India and the ASEAN region. We aim to launch 70 new vehicles throughout GMIO through 2012. We plan to enhance and
strengthen our GMIO product portfolio through three strategies: (1) leveraging our global architectures; (2) pursuing local and regional solutions to meet specific market requirements; and (3) expanding our joint venture partner
collaboration opportunities.          

Increase sales in GMSA, particularly in Brazil. We plan to continue to execute our growth strategies in countries where we already hold strong
positions, such as Brazil. We aim to launch 40 new vehicles throughout GMSA through 2011. We plan to      
         52   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          

strengthen our GMSA product portfolio through three strategies: (1) leveraging our global architectures; (2) pursuing local and regional solutions to meet specific market requirements;
and (3) expanding our joint venture partner collaboration opportunities.          

Ensure competitive financing is available to our dealers and customers.  We currently maintain multiple financing programs and
arrangements with third parties for our wholesale and retail customers to utilize when purchasing or leasing our vehicles. Through our long-standing arrangements with Ally Financial and a variety of other worldwide, regional and local lenders, we
provide our customers and dealers with access to financing alternatives. We plan to further expand the range of financing options available to our customers and dealers to help grow our vehicle sales through two specific objectives: (1) ensure
certainty of availability of financing; and (2) competitive and transparent pricing for financing, for our dealers and customers. We expect GM Financial will offer increased availability of leasing and sub-prime financing for our customers in
the United States and Canada throughout economic cycles. We also plan to use GM Financial to initiate targeted customer marketing initiatives to expand our vehicle sales.      
    Reduce breakeven levels through improved revenue realization and a competitive cost structure.   In developed markets, we are
improving our cost structure to become profitable at lower industry volumes.       

Capitalize on cost structure improvement and maintain reduced incentive levels in GMNA.  We plan to sustain the cost reduction and
operating flexibility progress we have made as a result of our North American restructuring. Our current U.S. and Canadian hourly labor agreements provide the flexibility to utilize a lower tiered wage and benefit structure for new hires, part-time
employees and temporary employees. We aim to increase our vehicle profitability by maintaining competitive incentive levels with our strengthened product portfolio and by actively managing our production levels through monitoring of our dealer
inventory levels. For the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and based on GMNA s 2010 market share, GMNA s earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT) (EBIT is not an operating measure under U.S. GAAP   refer to
 Reconciliation of Consolidated, Automotive and GM Financial Segment Results  for additional discussion) would have achieved breakeven at GMNA wholesale volume of approximately 2.3 million vehicles, consistent with an annual U.S.
industry sales volume of approximately 9.5 to 10.0 million vehicles.          

Execute on our Opel/Vauxhall restructuring plan . We expect our Opel/Vauxhall restructuring plan to lower our vehicle manufacturing costs.
The plan includes manufacturing rationalization, headcount reduction, labor cost concessions from the remaining workforce and selling, general and administrative efficiency initiatives. Specifically, we have reached an agreement to reduce our
European manufacturing capacity by 20% through, among other things, the closing of our Antwerp facility in Belgium and the rationalization of our powertrain operations in our Bochum and Kaiserslautern facilities in Germany. Additionally, we have
reached an agreement with the labor unions in Europe to reduce labor costs by Euro 265 million per year. The objective of our restructuring, along with the refreshed product portfolio pipeline, is to restore the profitability of the GME
business.          

Enhance manufacturing flexibility.  We primarily produce vehicles in locations where we sell them and we have significant manufacturing
capacity in medium- and low-cost countries. We intend to maximize capacity utilization across our production footprint to meet demand without requiring significant additional capital investment. For example, we were able to leverage the benefit of a
global architecture and start initial production for the U.S. of the Buick Regal 11 months ahead of schedule by temporarily shifting production from North America to R sselsheim, Germany.      
    Maintain a strong balance sheet.   Given our business s high operating leverage and the cyclical nature of our industry,
we intend to minimize our financial leverage. We plan to use excess cash to repay debt and to make discretionary contributions to our U.S. pension plans. Based on this planned reduction in financial leverage and the anticipated benefits resulting
from our operating strategy described above, we will aim to attain an investment grade credit rating over the long-term.   
         53   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Chapter 11 Proceedings and the 363 Sale    
    Background        Over time as Old GM s market share declined in North America, Old GM needed to continually restructure its business operations to reduce cost and excess capacity. Legacy labor costs and obligations
and capacity in its dealer network made Old GM less competitive than new entrants into the U.S. market. These factors continued to strain Old GM s liquidity. In 2005 Old GM incurred significant losses from operations and from restructuring
activities such as providing support to Delphi and other efforts intended to reduce operating costs. Old GM managed its liquidity during this time through a series of cost reduction initiatives, capital markets transactions and sales of assets.
However, the global credit market crisis had a dramatic effect on Old GM and the automotive industry. In the second half of 2008, the increased turmoil in the mortgage and overall credit markets (particularly the lack of financing for buyers or
lessees of vehicles), the continued reductions in U.S. housing values, the volatility in the price of oil, recessions in the United States and Western Europe and the slowdown of economic growth in the rest of the world created a substantially more
difficult business environment. The ability to execute capital markets transactions or sales of assets was extremely limited, vehicle sales in North America and Western Europe contracted severely, and the pace of vehicle sales in the rest of the
world slowed. Old GM s liquidity position, as well as its operating performance, were negatively affected by these economic and industry conditions and by other financial and business factors, many of which were beyond its control.   
  As a result of these economic conditions and the rapid decline in sales in the three months ended December 31, 2008 Old GM
determined that, despite the actions it had then taken to restructure its U.S. business, it would be unable to pay its obligations in the normal course of business in 2009 or service its debt in a timely fashion, which required the development of a
new plan that depended on financial assistance from the U.S. government.      In December 2008 Old GM requested and received
financial assistance from the U.S. government and entered into the UST Loan Agreement. In early 2009 Old GM s business results and liquidity continued to deteriorate, and, as a result, Old GM obtained additional funding from the UST under the
UST Loan Agreement. Old GM, through its wholly-owned subsidiary GMCL, also received funding from EDC, a corporation wholly-owned by the Government of Canada, under a loan and security agreement entered into in April 2009 (EDC Loan Facility).
     As a condition to obtaining the UST Loan Facility under the UST Loan Agreement, Old GM was required to submit a Viability
Plan in February 2009 that included specific actions intended to result in the following:       

Repayment of all loans, interest and expenses under the UST Loan Agreement, and all other funding provided by the U.S. government;

Compliance with federal fuel efficiency and emissions requirements and commencement of domestic manufacturing of advanced technology vehicles;

Achievement of a positive net present value, using reasonable assumptions and taking into account all existing and projected future costs;

Rationalization of costs, capitalization and capacity with respect to its manufacturing workforce, suppliers and dealerships; and

A product mix and cost structure that is competitive in the U.S. marketplace.      
         54   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   The UST Loan Agreement also required Old GM to, among other things, use its best efforts
to achieve the following restructuring targets:       Debt Reduction    

Reduction of its outstanding unsecured public debt by not less than two-thirds through conversion of existing unsecured public debt into equity,
debt and/or cash or by other appropriate means.          Labor Modifications    

Reduction of the total amount of compensation paid to its U.S. employees so that, by no later than December 31, 2009, the average of such
total amount is competitive with the average total amount of such compensation paid to U.S. employees of certain foreign-owned, U.S. domiciled automakers (transplant automakers);      

Elimination of the payment of any compensation or benefits to U.S. employees who have been fired, laid-off, furloughed or idled, other than
customary severance pay; and          

Application of work rules for U.S. employees in a manner that is competitive with the work rules for employees of transplant automakers.
         VEBA Modifications        

Modification of its retiree healthcare obligations arising under the 2008 UAW Settlement Agreement under which responsibility for providing
healthcare for UAW retirees, their spouses and dependents would permanently shift from Old GM to the New Plan funded by the New VEBA, such that payment or contribution of not less than one-half of the value of each future payment was to be made in
the form of Old GM common stock, subject to certain limitations.         The UST Loan Agreement provided that if,
by March 31, 2009 or a later date (not to exceed 30 days after March 31, 2009) as determined by the Presidential Task Force on the Auto Industry (Auto Task Force) (Certification Deadline), the Auto Task Force had not certified that Old GM
had taken all steps necessary to achieve and sustain its long-term viability, international competitiveness and energy efficiency in accordance with the Viability Plan, then the loans and other obligations under the UST Loan Agreement were to become
due and payable on the thirtieth day after the Certification Deadline.      On March 30, 2009 the Auto Task Force determined
that the plan was not viable and required substantial revisions. In conjunction with the March 30, 2009 announcement, the administration announced that it would offer Old GM adequate working capital financing for a period of 60 days while it
worked with Old GM to develop and implement a more accelerated and aggressive restructuring that would provide a sound long-term foundation. On March 31, 2009 Old GM and the UST agreed to postpone the Certification Deadline to June 1,
2009.      Old GM made further modifications to its Viability Plan in an attempt to satisfy the Auto Task Force requirement that
it undertake a substantially more accelerated and aggressive restructuring plan (Revised Viability Plan). The following is a summary of significant cost reduction and restructuring actions contemplated by the Revised Viability Plan, the most
significant of which included reducing Old GM s indebtedness and VEBA obligations.       Indebtedness and VEBA Obligations
      In April 2009 Old GM commenced exchange offers for certain unsecured notes to reduce its unsecured debt in order to
comply with the debt reduction condition of the UST Loan Agreement.   
         55   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   Old GM also commenced discussions with the UST regarding the terms of a potential
restructuring of its debt obligations under the UST Loan Agreement, the UST Ally Financial Loan Agreement (as subsequently defined), and any other debt issued or owed to the UST in connection with those loan agreements pursuant to which the UST
would exchange at least 50% of the total outstanding debt Old GM owed to it at June 1, 2009 for Old GM common stock.      Old
GM commenced discussions with the UAW and the VEBA-settlement class representative regarding the terms of potential VEBA modifications.       Other Cost Reduction and Restructuring Actions       In addition to the efforts
to reduce debt and modify the VEBA obligations, the Revised Viability Plan also contemplated the following cost reduction efforts:       

Extended shutdowns of certain North American manufacturing facilities in order to reduce dealer inventory;      

Refocus of resources on four U.S. brands: Chevrolet, Cadillac, Buick and GMC;      

Acceleration of the resolution for Saab, HUMMER and Saturn and no planned future investment for Pontiac, which was phased out by the end of
2010;          

A reduction in the U.S. hourly employment levels from 61,000 in 2008 to 40,000 in 2010 as a result of the nameplate reductions, operational
efficiencies and plant capacity reductions   through these actions, our special attrition programs and other U.S. hourly workforce reductions, we have reduced the number of U.S. hourly employees to 49,000 at December 31, 2010.
        Old GM had previously announced that it would reduce salaried employment levels on a global basis by 10,000
during 2009 and had instituted several programs to effect reductions in salaried employment levels. Old GM had also negotiated a revised labor agreement with the CAW to reduce its hourly labor costs to approximately the level paid to the transplant
automakers; however, such agreement was contingent upon receiving longer term financial support for its Canadian operations from the Canadian federal and Ontario provincial governments.   
    Chapter 11 Proceedings        Old GM was not able to complete the cost reduction and restructuring actions in its Revised Viability Plan, including the debt reductions and VEBA modifications, which resulted in extreme liquidity
constraints. As a result, on June 1, 2009 Old GM and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries entered into the Chapter 11 Proceedings.      In connection with the Chapter 11 Proceedings, Old GM entered into a secured superpriority debtor-in-possession credit agreement with the UST and EDC (DIP Facility) and received additional funding
commitments from EDC to support Old GM s Canadian operations.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   The following table summarizes the total funding and funding commitments Old GM received
from the U.S. and Canadian governments and the additional notes Old GM issued related thereto in the period December 31, 2008 through July 9, 2009 (dollars in millions):   

(a)  
  Old GM did not receive any proceeds from the issuance of these promissory notes, which were issued as additional compensation to the UST and EDC.

(b)  
  Includes debt of $361 million, which UST loaned to Old GM under the warranty program.     

(c)  
  Includes approximately $2.4 billion from the EDC Loan Facility received in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 and funding commitments of CAD
$4.5 billion (equivalent to $3.9 billion when entered into) that were immediately converted into our equity. This funding was received on July 15, 2009.     
    363 Sale        On July 10, 2009, we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of the Sellers. The 363 Sale was consummated in accordance with the Purchase
Agreement, between us and the Sellers, and pursuant to the Bankruptcy Court s sale order dated July 5, 2009.      In
connection with the 363 Sale, the purchase price we paid to Old GM equaled the sum of:       

A credit bid in an amount equal to the total of: (1) debt of $19.8 billion under Old GM s UST Loan Agreement, plus notes of
$1.2 billion issued as additional compensation for the UST Loan Agreement, plus interest on such debt Old GM owed as of the closing date of the 363 Sale; and (2) debt of $33.3 billion under Old GM s DIP Facility, plus notes of
$2.2 billion issued as additional compensation for the DIP Facility, plus interest Old GM owed as of the closing date, less debt of $8.2 billion owed under the DIP Facility;      

UST s return of the warrants Old GM previously issued to it;      

The issuance to MLC of 150 million shares (or 10%) of our common stock and warrants to acquire newly issued shares of our common stock
initially exercisable for a total of 273 million shares of our common stock (or 15% on a fully diluted basis); and          

Our assumption of certain specified liabilities of Old GM (including debt of $7.1 billion owed under the DIP Facility).
        Under the Purchase Agreement, we are obligated to issue additional shares of our common stock to MLC
(Adjustment Shares) in the event that allowed general unsecured claims against MLC, as estimated by the Bankruptcy Court, exceed $35.0 billion. The maximum number of Adjustment Shares issuable is 30 million shares (subject to adjustment to take
into account stock dividends, stock splits and other transactions). The number of Adjustment Shares to be issued is calculated based on the extent to which estimated general unsecured claims exceed $35.0 billion with the maximum number of Adjustment
Shares issued if estimated general unsecured claims total $42.0 billion or more. In the period July 10, 2009 to December 31, 2009 we determined that it was probable that general unsecured claims allowed against MLC would ultimately exceed
$35.0 billion by at least $2.0 billion. In the circumstance where expected general unsecured claims equal $37.0 billion, we would have been required to issue 8.6 million Adjustment Shares to
  
         57   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
MLC as an adjustment to the purchase price. At December 31, 2009 we recorded a liability of $162 million included in Accrued liabilities. In the year ended December 31, 2010 the
liability was adjusted quarterly based on available information. Based on information which became available in the three months ended December 31, 2010, we concluded it was no longer probable that general unsecured claims would exceed $35
billion and we reversed to income our previously recorded liability of $231 million for the contingently issuable Adjustment Shares.       Agreements with the UST, EDC and New VEBA       On July 10, 2009, we
entered into the UST Credit Agreement and assumed debt of $7.1 billion Old GM incurred under the DIP Facility (UST Loans). Through our wholly-owned subsidiary GMCL, we entered into the Canadian Loan Agreement with EDC and assumed a CAD $1.5
billion (equivalent to $1.3 billion when entered into) term loan maturing on July 10, 2015. Proceeds of the DIP Facility of $16.4 billion were deposited in escrow, to be distributed to us at our request if certain conditions were met
and returned to us after the UST Loans and the Canadian Loan were repaid in full. Immediately after entering into the UST Credit Agreement, we made a partial pre-payment due to the termination of the U.S. government sponsored warranty program,
reducing the UST Loans principal balance to $6.7 billion. We also entered into the VEBA Note Agreement and issued the VEBA Notes to the New VEBA in the principal amount of $2.5 billion pursuant to the VEBA Note Agreement.   
  In December 2009 and March 2010 we made quarterly payments of $1.0 billion and $1.0 billion on the UST Loans and GMCL made quarterly
payments of $192 million and $194 million on the Canadian Loan. In April 2010, we used funds from our escrow account to repay in full the outstanding amount of the UST Loans of $4.7 billion, and GMCL repaid in full the outstanding amount
of the Canadian Loan of $1.1 billion. Both loans were repaid prior to maturity. On October 26, 2010 we repaid in full the outstanding amount (together with accreted interest thereon) of the VEBA Notes of $2.8 billion.   
  Refer to Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on the UST Loans, VEBA Notes and the Canadian Loan.
      Issuance of Common Stock, Preferred Stock and Warrants    
  On July 10, 2009 we issued the following securities to the UST, Canada Holdings, the New VEBA and MLC (shares in millions):

(a)  
  New VEBA also received a warrant to acquire 46 million shares of our common stock and MLC received two warrants, each to acquire 136 million shares of our
common stock.         Preferred Stock       The shares of Series A Preferred Stock have a liquidation amount of $25.00 per share and accrue cumulative dividends at 9.0% per annum (payable quarterly on
March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15) that are payable if, as and when declared by our Board of Directors. So long as any share of the Series A Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution
may be declared or paid on our common stock or our Series B Preferred Stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends have been paid on the Series A Preferred Stock, subject to exceptions, such as dividends on our common stock payable solely in shares
of our common stock. On or after December 31, 2014 we may redeem, in whole or in part, the shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding, at a redemption price per share equal to $25.00 per share plus any accrued and unpaid dividends, subject
to limited exceptions.   
         58   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   The Series A Preferred Stock was previously classified as temporary equity because the
holders of the Series A Preferred Stock, as a class, owned greater than 50% of our common stock and therefore had the ability to exert control, through its power to vote for the election of our directors, over various matters, which could have
included compelling us to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock in 2014 or later. In December 2010 we purchased the 84 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock held by the UST. Since the remaining holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, Canada
Holdings and the New VEBA, do not own a majority of our common stock and therefore do not have the ability to exert control, through the power to vote for the election of our directors, over various matters, including compelling us to redeem the
Series A Preferred Stock when it becomes callable by us on or after December 31, 2014, our classification of the Series A Preferred Stock as temporary equity is no longer appropriate. Upon the purchase of the Series A Preferred Stock held by
the UST, the Series A Preferred Stock held by Canada Holdings and the New VEBA was reclassified to permanent equity at its carrying amount of $5.5 billion. Refer to Note 29 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on the
purchase of shares of Series A Preferred Stock.       Warrants    
  The first tranche of warrants issued to MLC is exercisable at any time prior to July 10, 2016, with an exercise price of $10.00 per
share. The second tranche of warrants issued to MLC is exercisable at any time prior to July 10, 2019, with an exercise price of $18.33 per share. The warrant issued to the New VEBA is exercisable at any time prior to December 31, 2015,
with an exercise price of $42.31 per share. The number of shares of our common stock underlying each of the warrants issued to MLC and the New VEBA and the per share exercise price are subject to adjustment as a result of certain events, including
stock splits, reverse stock splits and stock dividends.       Additional Modifications to Pension and Other Postretirement Plans
Contingent upon Completion of the 363 Sale       We modified the U.S. hourly pension plan, the U.S. executive retirement plan,
the U.S. salaried life plan, the non-UAW hourly retiree medical plan and the U.S. hourly life plan. These modifications became effective upon the completion of the 363 Sale. The key modifications were:   

Elimination of the post-age-65 benefits and placing a cap on pre-age-65 benefits in the non-UAW hourly retiree medical plan;

Capping the life benefit for non-UAW retirees and future retirees at $10,000 in the U.S. hourly life plan;      

Capping the life benefit for existing salaried retirees at $10,000, reduced the retiree benefit for future salaried retirees and eliminated the
executive benefit for the U.S. salaried life plan;          

Elimination of a portion of nonqualified benefits in the U.S. executive retirement plan; and      

Elimination of the flat monthly special lifetime benefit of $66.70 that was to commence on January 1, 2010 for the U.S. hourly pension
plan.           Accounting for the Effects of the Chapter 11 Proceedings and the 363 Sale     
   Chapter 11 Proceedings       ASC 852 is applicable to entities operating under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. ASC 852 generally does not affect the application of U.S. GAAP that we and Old GM followed to prepare the consolidated
financial statements, but it does require specific disclosures for transactions and events that were directly related to the Chapter 11 Proceedings and transactions and events that resulted from ongoing operations.   
  Old GM prepared its consolidated financial statements in accordance with the guidance in ASC 852 in the period June 1, 2009 through
July 9, 2009. Revenues, expenses, realized gains and losses, and provisions for losses directly related to the Chapter 11   
         59   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
Proceedings were recorded in Reorganization gains, net. Expenses and gains and losses directly related to the reorganization do not constitute an element of operating loss due to their nature and
due to the requirement of ASC 852 that they be reported separately. Old GM s balance sheet prior to the 363 Sale distinguished prepetition liabilities subject to compromise from prepetition liabilities not subject to compromise and from
postpetition liabilities.       Specific Management Initiatives       The execution of certain management initiatives is critical to achieving our goal of sustained future profitability. The following provides a summary of these management initiatives and significant
results and events.        Repayment of Debt and Reduction of Financial Leverage     
   Purchase of Series A Preferred Stock from the UST       In December 2010 we purchased 84 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock, held by the UST, at a price equal to 102% of the aggregate liquidation amount, for $2.1 billion. The purchase of the
UST s Series A Preferred Stock resulted in a charge of $0.7 billion.       Contribution of Cash and Common Stock to U.S.
Hourly and Salaried Pension Plans       In October 2010 we announced our intention to contribute $6.0 billion to our U.S.
hourly and salaried pension plans, consisting of $4.0 billion of cash and $2.0 billion of our common stock. In December 2010 we made the $4.0 billion cash contribution to our U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans consisting of a $2.7 billion
contribution to the U.S. hourly pension plan and a $1.3 billion contribution to the U.S. salaried pension plan. In January 2011 we contributed 61 million shares of our common stock to our U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans valued at $2.2
billion for funding purposes. We contributed 41 million shares of our common stock to the U.S. hourly pension plan and 20 million shares of our common stock to the U.S. salaried pension plan.   
   Repayment of GM Daewoo Credit Facility       In December 2010 GM Daewoo terminated its $1.2 billion credit facility following the repayment of the remaining $1.0 billion under the facility.   
   Repayment of VEBA Notes       On July 10, 2009 we entered into the VEBA Note Agreement and issued the VEBA Notes in the principal amount of $2.5 billion to the New VEBA. In October 2010 we repaid in full the outstanding amount
(together with accreted interest thereon) of the VEBA Notes of $2.8 billion.       Repayment of UST Loans and Canadian Loan
      Proceeds from the DIP Facility were necessary in order to provide sufficient capital for Old GM to operate pending the
closing of the 363 Sale. In connection with the 363 Sale, we assumed the UST Loans and Canadian Loan, which Old GM incurred under the DIP Facility. One of our key priorities was to repay the outstanding balances from these loans prior to maturity.
We also plan to use excess cash to repay debt and reduce our financial leverage.      In April 2010, we used funds from our escrow
account (described below) to repay in full the then-outstanding amount of the UST Loans of $4.7 billion and GMCL repaid in full the then-outstanding amount of the Canadian Loan of $1.1 billion. Both loans were repaid prior to maturity.
  
         60   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    UST Escrow Funds    
  Proceeds of the DIP Facility of $16.4 billion were deposited in escrow. We used our escrow account to acquire all Class A
Membership Interests in DIP HOLDCO LLP, subsequently named Delphi Automotive LLP (New Delphi), in the amount of $1.7 billion and acquire Nexteer and four domestic facilities and make other related payments in the amount of $1.0 billion. We
released from escrow $2.4 billion in connection with two quarterly payments on the UST Loans and Canadian Loan and another $4.7 billion was released upon the repayment of the UST Loans. The remaining funds in the amount of $6.6 billion that
were held in escrow became unrestricted and the availability of those funds was no longer subject to the conditions set forth in the UST Credit Agreement.       Repayment of German Revolving Bridge Facility       In May 2009 Old GM entered
into a revolving bridge facility with the German federal government and certain German states (German Facility) with a total commitment of up to Euro 1.5 billion (equivalent to $2.1 billion when entered into) and maturing November 30,
2009. The German Facility was necessary in order to provide sufficient capital to operate Opel/Vauxhall. On November 24, 2009, the debt was paid in full and extinguished.        Focus on Chinese Market        Our Chinese operations, which we
established beginning in 1997, are composed of the following joint ventures: SGM, SGMW, FAW-GM, Pan Asia Technical Automotive Center Co., Ltd. (PATAC), Shanghai OnStar Telematics Co. Ltd. (Shanghai OnStar) and Shanghai Chengxin Used Car Operation
and Management Co., Ltd. (Used Car JV), collectively referred to as China JVs. We view the Chinese market, the fastest growing global market by volume of vehicles sold, as important to our global growth strategy and are employing a multi-brand
strategy, led by our Buick division, which we believe is a strong brand in China. In the coming years, we plan to increasingly leverage our global architectures to increase the number of nameplates under the Chevrolet brand in China. Sales and
income of the joint ventures are not consolidated into our financial statements; rather, our proportionate share of the earnings of each joint venture is reflected as Equity income, net of tax.   
  SGM is a joint venture established by Shanghai Automotive Industry Corporation (SAIC) (51%) and us (49%) in 1997. SGM has
interests in three other joint ventures in China   Shanghai GM (Shenyang) Norsom Motor Co., Ltd (SGM Norsom), Shanghai GM Dong Yue Motors Co., Ltd (SGM DY) and Shanghai GM Dong Yue Powertrain (SGM DYPT). These three joint ventures are jointly
held by SGM (50%), SAIC (25%) and us (25%). The four joint ventures (SGM Group) are engaged in the production, import, and sale of a comprehensive range of products under the brands of Buick, Chevrolet, and Cadillac.   
  SGMW, of which we own 44%, SAIC owns 50.1% and certain Liuzhou investors own 5.9%, produces mini-commercial vehicles and passenger cars
utilizing local architectures under the Wuling and Chevrolet brands. In 2010 we entered into an equity transfer agreement to purchase an additional 10% interest in SGMW from Liuzhou Wuling Motors Co., Ltd. and Liuzhou Mini Vehicles Factory,
(together the Wuling Group) for $52 million in cash plus an agreement to provide technical services to the Wuling Group through 2013. Upon receiving regulatory approval in China, the transaction closed in November of 2010 increasing our ownership
from 34% to 44% of the outstanding stock of SGMW. FAW-GM, of which we own 50% and China FAW Group Corporation (FAW) owns 50%, produces light commercial vehicles under the Jiefang brand and medium vans under the FAW brand. Our joint venture
agreements allow for significant rights as a member as well as the contractual right to report SGMW and FAW-GM joint venture vehicle sales and production volume in China. SAIC, one of our joint venture partners, currently produces vehicles under its
own brands for sale in the Chinese market. At present vehicles that SAIC produces primarily serve markets that are different from markets served by our joint ventures.      PATAC is our China-based engineering and technical joint venture with SAIC. Shanghai OnStar is our joint venture with SAIC that provides Chinese customers with a wide array of vehicle safety and
information services. Used Car JV is our joint venture with SAIC that will cooperate with current distributors of SGM products in the establishment of dedicated used car sales and service facilities across China.   
         61   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   The following table summarizes certain key operational and financial data for the China
JVs (dollars in millions):       
    In November 2010 we
and SAIC entered into a non-binding Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) that would, if binding agreements are concluded by the parties, result in several strategic cooperation initiatives between us and SAIC. The initiatives covered by the MOU
include:       

Cooperation in the development of new energy vehicles, such as appropriate electric vehicle architectures and battery electric vehicle technical
development;          

Further expanding the role of PATAC in vehicle development, new technology development and participation in our global vehicle development
process;          

Sharing an additional vehicle architecture and powertrain application with SAIC in an effort to help reduce development costs and benefit from
economies of scale;          

Potential cooperation in providing access to our distribution network outside China for certain of SAIC s MG branded products;

Providing training sources to assist a limited number of SAIC engineers with their professional development; and      

Discussions to determine possible areas of cooperation in the development of future diesel engines.      
  We expect definitive agreements will be reached in the first half of 2011 for the initiatives not yet agreed to at December 31,
2010.        Development of Multiple Financing Sources and GM Financial     
  A significant percentage of our customers and dealers require financing to purchase our vehicles. Historically, Ally Financial has
provided most of the financing for our dealers and a significant amount of financing for our customers in the U.S., Canada and various other markets around the world. We maintain other financing relationships, such as with U.S. Bank for U.S.
leasing, GM Financial for sub-prime lending and a variety of local and regional financing sources around the world.      We expect
GM Financial will allow us to complement our existing relationship with Ally Financial in order to provide a more complete range of financing options to our customers, specifically focusing on providing additional capabilities in leasing and
sub-prime financing options. We also plan to use GM Financial for targeted customer marketing initiatives to expand our vehicle sales.        Secured Revolving Credit Facility        In October 2010 we entered into
a five year, $5.0 billion secured revolving credit facility. While we do not believe the amounts available under the secured revolving credit facility will be needed to fund operating activities, the facility is expected to provide additional
liquidity and financing flexibility. Refer to the section of this report entitled    Liquidity and Capital Resources   Secured Revolving Credit Facility  for additional information about the secured revolving credit facility.
  
         62   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     Opel/Vauxhall Restructuring Activities     
  In June 2010 the German federal government notified us of its decision not to provide loan guarantees to Opel/Vauxhall. As a result, we
have decided to fund the requirements of Opel/Vauxhall internally, including any amounts necessary to fund the $1.4 billion in cash required to complete the European restructuring program. Opel/Vauxhall has subsequently withdrawn all
applications for government loan guarantees from European governments.      Through September 2010 we committed up to a total of
Euro 3.3 billion (equivalent to $4.2 billion when committed) to fund Opel/Vauxhall s restructuring and ongoing cash requirements. This funding includes cumulative lending commitments combined into a Euro 2.6 billion intercompany facility and
equity commitments of Euro 700 million.      We plan to continue to invest in capital, engineering and innovative fuel efficient
powertrain technologies including an extended- range electric vehicle and battery electric vehicles. Our plan also includes aggressive capacity reductions including headcount reductions and the closing of our Antwerp, Belgium facility.   
  In the year ended December 31, 2010 GME recorded charges for 2010 restructuring programs of $81 million related to separation
programs in the U.K. and Germany and an early retirement plan in Spain of $63 million, which will affect 1,200 employees.      In
the year ended December 31, 2010 GME recorded charges of $527 million related to a separation plan associated with the closure of the Antwerp, Belgium facility. There were 2,600 employees affected, of which 1,300 separated in June 2010. In
addition, GME and employee representatives entered into a Memorandum of Understanding whereby both parties cooperated in a working group, which also included the Flemish government, in order to find an outside investor to acquire and operate the
facility. In October 2010 we announced that the search for an investor had been unsuccessful and the vehicle assembly operations in Antwerp, Belgium ceased at the end of 2010.        Increased GMNA Production Volume        The moderate improvement in the
U.S. economy, resulting increase in U.S. industry vehicle sales and increase in demand for our products has resulted in increased production volumes for GMNA. In the year ended December 31, 2010 GMNA produced 2.8 million vehicles. This
represents an increase of 46.8% compared to 1.9 million vehicles that combined GM and Old GM GMNA produced in the year ended December 31, 2009.      The following table summarizes GMNA s quarterly production volume (in thousands):       

(a)  
  Combined GM and Old GM GMNA production volume.         

(b)  
  Old GM GMNA production volume.     
    Increased U.S. Vehicle Sales        GMNA dealers in the U.S. sold 2.2 million vehicles in the year ended December 31, 2010. This represents an increase of 131,000 vehicles (or 6.3%) from our and Old GM s U.S. vehicle sales in
the year ended December 31, 2009. This increase reflects our brand   
         63   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
rationalization strategy to focus our product engineering and design and marketing on our four brands. This strategy has resulted in increased consumer demand for certain products such as the
Chevrolet Equinox, GMC Terrain, Buick LaCrosse and Cadillac SRX. These four brands accounted for 99.4% of our U.S. vehicle sales in the year ended December 31, 2010. The moderate improvement in the U.S. economy has contributed to a slow but
steady improvement in U.S. industry vehicle sales and increased consumer confidence.      The continued increase in U.S. industry
vehicle sales and the vehicle sales of our four brands is critical for us to maintain our worldwide profitability.        U.S.
Dealer Reduction        We market vehicles worldwide through a network of independent retail dealers and distributors. As
part of achieving and sustaining long-term viability and the viability of our dealer network, we determined that a reduction in the number of U.S. dealerships was necessary. In determining which dealerships would remain in our network, we performed
analyses of volumes and consumer satisfaction indexes, among other criteria, and over 1,800 U.S. retail dealers signed wind-down agreements effectively terminating their dealer agreements with us on October 31, 2010. Pursuant to legislation
passed in December 2009 over 1,100 dealers filed for arbitration seeking reinstatement. In 2010 the arbitration process was resolved. As a result of the arbitration process we offered 332 dealers reinstatement in their entirety and 460 existing
dealers reinstatement of certain brands. At December 31, 2010 there were 4,500 vehicle dealers in the U.S. compared to 5,600 at December 31, 2009.        Section 136 Loans        Section 136 of the EISA established an
incentive program consisting of both grants and direct loans to support the development of advanced technology vehicles and associated components in the U.S. In January 2011 consistent with our strategy to maintain a strong balance sheet by
minimizing our financial leverage, we withdrew our $14.4 billion loan application, under Section 136, to the U.S. Department of Energy.        Brand Rationalization        We have focused our resources in the U.S. on
four brands. As a result, we completed the sale of Saab in February 2010 and the sale of Saab GB in May 2010 and have completed the wind down of our Pontiac, Saturn, and HUMMER brands.   
    Sale of Nexteer        On November 30, 2010 we completed the sale of Nexteer, a manufacturer of steering components and half-shafts, to Pacific Century Motors. The sale of Nexteer included the global steering business which was
acquired in October 2009. The 2009 acquisition of Nexteer included 22 manufacturing facilities, six engineering facilities and 14 customer support centers located in North and South America, Europe and Asia. We received consideration of $426 million
in cash and a $39 million promissory note in exchange for 100% of our ownership interest in Nexteer and recorded a gain of $60 million on the sale.        Resolution of Delphi Matters        In October 2009 we consummated the
transaction contemplated in the DMDA with Delphi and other parties. Under the DMDA, we agreed to acquire Nexteer, which supplies us and other OEMs with steering systems and columns, and four domestic facilities that manufacture a variety of
automotive components, primarily sold to us. We, along with several third party investors who held the Delphi Tranche DIP Facility (collectively, the Investors), agreed to acquire substantially all of Delphi s remaining assets through New
Delphi. Certain excluded assets and liabilities had been retained by a Delphi entity (DPH) to be sold or liquidated. In connection with the DMDA, we agreed to pay or assume Delphi obligations of $1.0 billion related to its senior DIP credit
facility, including certain   
         64   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
outstanding derivative instruments, its junior DIP credit facility, and other Delphi obligations, including certain administrative claims. At the closing of the transactions contemplated by the
DMDA, we waived administrative claims associated with our advance agreements with Delphi, the payment terms acceleration agreement with Delphi and the claims associated with previously transferred pension costs for hourly employees.   
  We agreed to acquire, prior to the consummation of the transactions contemplated by the DMDA, all Class A Membership Interests in
New Delphi for a cash contribution of $1.7 billion with the Investors acquiring Class B Membership Interests. We and the Investors also agreed to establish: (1) a secured delayed draw term loan facility for New Delphi, with us and the
Investors each committing to provide loans of up to $500 million; and (2) a note of $41 million to be funded at closing by the Investors. The DMDA settled outstanding claims and assessments against and from MLC, us and Delphi,
including the termination of the Master Restructuring Agreement with limited exceptions, and establishes an ongoing commercial relationship with New Delphi. We agreed to continue all existing Delphi supply agreements and purchase orders for GMNA to
the end of the related product program, and New Delphi agreed to provide us with access rights designed to allow us to operate specific sites on defined triggering events to provide us with protection of supply.   
  In separate agreements, we, Delphi and the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC) negotiated the settlement of the PBGC s
claims from the termination of the Delphi pension plans and the release of certain liens with the PBGC against Delphi s foreign assets. In return, the PBGC was granted a 100% interest in Class C Membership Interests in New Delphi which provides
for the PBGC to participate in predefined equity distributions and received a payment of $70 million from us. We maintain certain obligations relating to Delphi hourly employees to provide the difference between pension benefits paid by the
PBGC according to regulation and those originally guaranteed by Old GM under the Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements.       Investment in Ally
Financial       As part of the approval process for Ally Financial to obtain Bank Holding Company status in December 2008, Old
GM agreed to reduce its ownership in Ally Financial to less than 10% of the voting and total equity of Ally Financial by December 24, 2011. At December 31, 2010 our equity ownership in Ally Financial was 9.9%.   
  In December 2010 the UST agreed to convert its optional conversion feature on the shares of mandatory convertible preferred securities
held by the UST. Through this transaction, Ally Financial converted 110 million shares of preferred securities into 532 thousand shares of common stock. This action resulted in the dilution of our investment in Ally Financial common stock
from 16.6% to 9.9%, of which 4.0% is held directly and 5.9% is held indirectly through an independent trust. Pursuant to previous commitments to reduce influence over and ownership in Ally Financial, the trustee, who is independent of us, has the
sole authority to vote and is required to dispose of all Ally Financial common stock held in the trust by December 24, 2011. We can cause the trustee to return any Ally Financial common stock to us to hold directly, so long as our directly held
voting and total common equity interests remain below 10%.       Special Attrition Programs, Labor Agreements and Benefit Plan Changes
      During 2009 we and Old GM implemented various programs which reduced the hourly and salary workforce. Significant
workforce reductions and settlements with various represented employee groups are discussed below.        2009 Special
Attrition Programs        In 2009 Old GM announced special attrition programs for eligible UAW represented employees,
offering cash and other incentives for individuals who elected to retire or voluntarily terminate employment.        Global
Salaried Workforce Reductions        In 2009 U.S. salaried workforce reductions were accomplished primarily through a
salaried retirement program or through a severance program funded from operating cash flows.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements     
  The Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements were affected by the settlement of the PBGC claims from the termination of the Delphi pension
plan. We maintained the obligation to provide the difference between the pension benefits paid by the PBGC and those originally guaranteed by Old GM under the Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements.   
    U.S. Salaried Benefit Changes        U.S. salaried benefit changes reduced the salaried life benefits and a negative amendment to the U.S. salaried retiree healthcare program reduced coverage and increased cost sharing.   
    2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement        In 2009 Old GM and the UAW agreed to a 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement which permanently shifted responsibility for providing retiree healthcare to the new plan funded by the New VEBA. Under the
terms of the settlement agreement, we are released from UAW retiree healthcare claims incurred after December 31, 2009. All obligations of ours and any other entity or benefit plan of ours for retiree medical benefits for the class and the
covered group arising from any agreement between us and the UAW terminated at December 31, 2009. Our obligations to the new healthcare plan and the New VEBA are limited to the terms of the settlement agreement.   
  At December 31, 2009 we accounted for the termination of our UAW hourly retiree medical plan and Mitigation Plan as a settlement.
The resulting settlement loss of $2.6 billion recorded on December 31, 2009 represented the difference between the sum of the accrued other postretirement benefits (OPEB) liability of $10.6 billion and the existing internal VEBA assets of $12.6
billion, and $25.8 billion representing the fair value of the consideration transferred at December 31, 2009, including the contribution of the existing internal VEBA assets. Upon the settlement of the UAW hourly retiree medical plan at
December 31, 2009 the VEBA Notes, Series A Preferred Stock, common stock, and warrants contributed to the New VEBA were recorded at fair value and classified as outstanding debt and equity instruments.   
  Prior to December 31, 2009 the 260 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock issued to the New VEBA were not considered
outstanding for accounting purposes due to the terms of the revised settlement agreement with the UAW. As a result, $105 million of the $146 million of dividends paid on September 15, 2009 and $147 million of the $203 million of dividends paid
on December 15, 2009 were recorded as employer contributions resulting in a reduction of Postretirement benefits other than pensions.        IUE-CWA and USW Settlement Agreement        In September 2009 we entered
into a settlement agreement with MLC, The International Union of Electronic, Electrical, Salaried, Machine and Furniture Workers   Communication Workers of America (IUE-CWA) and United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy,
Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (USW). The approved settlement agreement resulted in remeasurements of the U.S. hourly defined benefit pension plan, the non-UAW hourly retiree healthcare plan and the U.S. hourly life plan
to reflect the terms of the agreement. The settlement agreement was expressly conditioned upon and did not become effective until approved by the Bankruptcy Court in MLC s Chapter 11 proceedings, which occurred in November 2009. Several
additional unions representing MLC hourly retirees joined the IUE-CWA and USW settlement agreement with respect to healthcare and life insurance. The remeasurement of these plans resulted in a decrease in a contingent liability accrual and an
offsetting increase in the projected benefit obligation (PBO) or accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO) of the benefit plan.        2009 CAW Agreement        In March 2009 Old GM announced that the members
of the CAW had ratified an agreement intended to reduce costs in Canada through introducing co-payments for healthcare benefits, increasing employee healthcare cost sharing, freezing pension benefits and
  
         66   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
eliminating cost of living adjustments to pensions for retired hourly workers. The 2009 CAW Agreement was conditioned on Old GM receiving longer term financial support from the Canadian and
Ontario governments and those governments agreed to the terms of a loan agreement, approved the GMCL viability plan and provided funding to GMCL. The Canadian hourly defined benefit pension plan was remeasured in June 2009.   
  The CAW hourly retiree healthcare plan and the CAW retiree life plan were also remeasured in June 2009. Additionally, as a result of the
termination of employees from the former Oshawa, Ontario truck facility, GMCL recorded a curtailment gain associated with the CAW hourly retiree healthcare plan.      In June 2009 GMCL and the CAW agreed to the terms of an independent Health Care Trust (HCT) to provide retiree healthcare benefits to certain active and retired employees and it will be implemented when
certain preconditions are achieved. Certain of the preconditions have not been achieved and the HCT is not yet implemented at December 31, 2010. GMCL is obligated to make a payment of CAD $1.0 billion on the HCT implementation date which it
will fund out of its CAD $1.0 billion escrow funds, adjusted for the net difference between the amount of retiree monthly contributions received during the period January 1, 2010 through the HCT implementation date less the cost of benefits
paid for claims incurred by covered employees during this period. GMCL will provide a CAD $800 million note payable to the HCT on the HCT implementation date which will accrue interest at an annual rate of 7.0% with five equal annual installments of
CAD $256 million due December 31 of 2014 through 2018. Concurrent with the implementation of the HCT, GMCL will be legally released from all obligations associated with the cost of providing retiree healthcare benefits to CAW active and retired
employees bound by the class action process, and we will account for the related termination of CAW hourly retiree healthcare benefits as a settlement, based upon the difference between the fair value of the notes and cash contributed and the
healthcare plan obligation at the settlement date. As a result of the conditions precedent to this agreement not having yet been achieved, there was no accounting recognition for the healthcare trust at December 31, 2010.   
   Venezuelan Exchange Regulations       Our Venezuelan subsidiaries changed their functional currency from Bolivar Fuerte (the BsF), the local currency, to the U.S. Dollar, our reporting currency, on January 1, 2010 because of the
hyperinflationary status of the Venezuelan economy. Pursuant to the official devaluation of the Venezuelan currency and establishment of the dual fixed exchange rates (essential rate of BsF 2.60 to $1.00 and nonessential rate of BsF 4.30 to $1.00)
in January 2010, we remeasured the BsF denominated monetary assets and liabilities held by our Venezuelan subsidiaries at the nonessential rate of 4.30 BsF to $1.00. The remeasurement resulted in a charge of $25 million recorded in Automotive cost
of sales in the the year ended December 31, 2010. In the year ended December 31, 2010 all BsF denominated transactions have been remeasured at the nonessential rate of 4.30 BsF to $1.00.   
  In June 2010 the Venezuelan government introduced additional foreign currency exchange control regulations, which imposed restrictions on
the use of the parallel foreign currency exchange market, thereby making it more difficult to convert BsF to U.S. Dollars. We periodically accessed the parallel exchange market, which historically enabled entities to obtain foreign currency for
transactions that could not be processed by the Commission for the Administration of Currency Exchange (CADIVI). The restrictions on the foreign currency exchange market could affect our Venezuelan subsidiaries  ability to pay non-BsF
denominated obligations that do not qualify to be processed by CADIVI at the official exchange rates as well as our ability to benefit from those operations.      In December 2010 another official devaluation of the Venezuelan currency was announced that eliminated the essential rate effective January 1, 2011. The devaluation did not have an effect on the 2010
consolidated financial statements, however, it will affect results of operations in subsequent years because our Venezuelan subsidiaries will no longer realize gains that result from favorable foreign currency exchanges processed by CADIVI at the
essential rate.       Effect of Fresh-Start Reporting       The application of fresh-start reporting significantly affected certain assets, liabilities and expenses. As a result, certain financial information at and for any period after July 10, 2009 is not
comparable to Old GM s financial information. Therefore, we did not   
         67   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
combine certain financial information in the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 with Old GM s financial information in the period January 1, 2009 through
July 9, 2009 for comparison to prior periods. For the purpose of the following discussion, we have combined our Total net sales and revenue in the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 with Old GM s Total net sales and
revenue in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009. Total net sales and revenue was not significantly affected by fresh-start reporting and therefore we combined vehicle sales data comparing the Successor and Predecessor periods.
Refer to Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on fresh-start reporting.      Because
our and Old GM s financial information is not comparable, we are providing additional financial metrics for the periods presented in addition to disclosures concerning significant transactions and trends at December 31, 2010 and 2009 and
in the periods presented.      Total net sales and revenue is primarily comprised of revenue generated from the sales of vehicles,
in addition to revenue from OnStar, our customer subscription service, vehicle sales accounted for as operating leases, sales of parts and accessories and GM Financial s loan purchasing and servicing activities.   
  Automotive cost of sales is primarily comprised of material, labor, manufacturing overhead, freight, foreign currency transaction and
translation gains and losses, product engineering, design and development expenses, depreciation and amortization, policy and warranty costs, postemployment benefit costs, and separation and impairment charges. Prior to our application of
fresh-start reporting on July 10, 2009, Automotive cost of sales also included gains and losses on derivative instruments. Effective July 10, 2009 gains and losses related to all nondesignated derivatives are recorded in Interest income
and other non-operating income, net.      Automotive selling, general and administrative expense is primarily comprised of costs
related to the advertising, selling and promotion of products, support services, including central office expenses, labor and benefit expenses for employees not considered part of the manufacturing process, consulting costs, rental expense for
offices, bad debt expense and non-income based state and local taxes.   
         68   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Consolidated Results of Operations        (Dollars in Millions)        

(a)  
  Includes charge related to the purchase of Series A Preferred Stock of $677 million in the year ended December 31, 2010.     
    Production and Vehicle Sales Volume        Management believes that production volume and vehicle sales data provide meaningful information regarding our automotive operating results. Production volumes manufactured by our assembly facilities are
generally aligned with current period net sales and revenue, as we generally recognize revenue upon the release of the vehicle to the carrier responsible for transporting it to a dealer, which is shortly after the completion of production. Vehicle
sales data, which includes retail and fleet sales, does not correlate directly to the revenue we recognize during the period. However, vehicle sales data is indicative of the underlying demand for our vehicles, and is the basis for our market share.
  
         69   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   The following tables summarize total production volume and sales of new motor vehicles
and competitive position (in thousands):       

(a)  
  Production volume includes vehicles produced by certain joint ventures.         

(b)  
  The joint venture agreements with SGMW (44%) and FAW-GM (50%) allow for significant rights as a member as well as the contractual right to report SGMW and
FAW-GM joint venture production in China.         

(a)  
  Includes HUMMER, Saab, Saturn and Pontiac vehicle sales data.         

(b)  
  Our vehicle sales include Saab data through February 2010.         

(c)  
  Vehicle sales data may include rounding differences.         

(d)  
  Certain fleet sales that are accounted for as operating leases are included in vehicle sales at the time of delivery to the daily rental car companies.

(e)  
  GMNA vehicle sales primarily represent sales to the ultimate customer. GME, GMIO and GMSA vehicle sales primarily represent estimated sales to the ultimate customer. In
countries where end customer data is not readily available other data sources, such as wholesale volumes, are used to estimate vehicle sales.         

(f)  
  Includes SGM joint venture vehicle sales in China of 1.0 million vehicles, SGMW and FAW-GM joint venture vehicle sales in China of 1.3 million vehicles and
HKJV joint venture vehicle sales in India 110,000 vehicles in the year ended December 31, 2010. Combined GM and Old GM SGM joint venture vehicle sales in China of 708,000 vehicles and combined GM and Old GM SGMW and FAW-GM joint venture vehicle
sales in China of 1.1 million vehicles in the year ended December 31, 2009. Old GM SGM joint venture vehicle sales in China of 432,000 and Old GM SGMW joint venture vehicle sales in China of 647,000 vehicles in the year ended
December 31, 2008. We do not record revenue from our joint ventures  vehicle sales.         

(g)  
  The joint venture agreements with SGMW (44%) and FAW-GM (50%) allow for significant rights as a member as well as the contractual right to report SGMW and
FAW-GM joint venture vehicle sales in China as part of our global market share.     
         70   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     Reconciliation of Consolidated, Automotive and GM Financial Segment Results
       Management believes EBIT provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our automotive segments 
operating results because it excludes amounts that management does not consider part of operating results when assessing and measuring the operational and financial performance of the organization. Management believes these measures allow it to
readily view operating trends, perform analytical comparisons and benchmark performance between periods and among geographic regions. We believe EBIT is useful in allowing for greater transparency of our core operations and it is therefore used by
management in its financial and operational decision-making.      While management believes that EBIT provides useful information,
it is not an operating measure under U.S. GAAP, and there are limitations associated with its use. Our calculation of EBIT may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences between
companies in the method of calculation. As a result, the use of EBIT has limitations and should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, other measures such as Net income (loss) or Net income (loss) attributable to common
stockholders. Due to these limitations, EBIT is used as a supplement to U.S. GAAP measures.      Management believes income (loss)
before income taxes provides meaningful supplemental information regarding GM Financial s operating results. GM Financial uses a separate measure from our automotive operations because management believes interest income and interest expense
are part of operating results when assessing and measuring the operational and financial performance of the segment.      The
following table summarizes the reconciliation of our automotive segments EBIT and GM Financial s income before income taxes to Net income (loss) attributable to stockholders (dollars in millions):   

(a)  
  Our automotive operations interest and income taxes are recorded centrally in Corporate; therefore, there are no reconciling items for our automotive operating segments
between EBIT and Net income (loss) attributable to stockholders.         
 
         71   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     Total Net Sales and Revenue     
    (Dollars in Millions)         

n.m.  
  = not meaningful        In the year
ended December 31, 2010 Total net sales and revenue increased by $31.0 billion (or 29.6%), primarily due to: (1) increased wholesale sales volume of $19.8 billion in GMNA due to an improving economy and recent vehicle launches;
(2) increased wholesale volumes of $3.9 billion in GMIO due to an improving global economy and recent vehicle launches; (3) favorable vehicle pricing effect of $2.9 billion in GMNA due to lower sales allowances, partially offset by less
favorable adjustments for U.S. residual support programs for leased vehicles; (4) increased wholesale volumes of $2.2 billion in GMSA driven by launches of the Chevrolet Cruze and Chevrolet Spark; (5) favorable vehicle mix of $1.6 billion
due to increased crossover and truck sales in GMNA; (6) favorable net foreign currency translation effect of $1.0 billion, primarily due to the strengthening of major currencies in 2010 against the U.S. Dollar in GMSA; (7) increased
sales of $1.0 billion due to the acquisition of Nexteer and four domestic component manufacturing facilities in GMNA; (8) favorable net foreign currency translation effect of $0.9 billion in GMIO; (9) favorable vehicle mix of $0.8 billion
driven by the launch of the Chevrolet Cruze and increased sales of sports utility vehicles in GMIO; (10) favorable net foreign currency remeasurement effect of $0.8 billion in GMNA; (11) derivative losses of $0.8 billion in 2009, that did
not recur in 2010, primarily driven by the depreciation of the Korean Won against the U.S. Dollar in GMIO; (12) favorable vehicle mix of $0.5 billion in GME; (13) favorable vehicle pricing effect of $0.5 billion driven by launches of
the Opel Astra and Opel Meriva in GME; (14) favorable vehicle pricing effect of $0.3 billion primarily in Venezuela driven by the hyperinflationary economy in GMSA; (15) increased revenues from OnStar of $0.3 billion in GMNA; and
(16) finance charge income of $0.3 billion due to the acquisition of AmeriCredit.      These increases in Total net sales and
revenue were partially offset by: (1) devaluation of the BsF in Venezuela of $0.9 billion in GMSA; (2) unfavorable net foreign currency translation effect of $0.7 billion in GME; (3) unfavorable vehicle mix of $0.4 billion in GMSA;
and (4) decreased lease financing revenues of $0.3 billion related to the liquidation of the portfolio of automotive leases.      In the year ended December 31, 2009 Total net sales and revenue decreased by $44.4 billion (or 29.8%) primarily due to: (1) decreased revenue of $36.7 billion in GMNA related to volume
reductions; (2) decrease in domestic wholesale volumes and lower exports of $9.1 billion in GMIO; (3) decreased domestic wholesale volumes of $4.8 billion in GME; (4) unfavorable foreign currency translation effect and
transaction losses of $3.7 billion in GME, primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar versus the Euro; (5) decreased wholesale volumes of $2.2 billion in GMSA; (6) decreased revenue of $1.2 billion in GME related
to Saab;   
         72   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
(7) unfavorable net foreign currency effect of $1.0 billion in GMIO; (8) decreased powertrain and parts and accessories revenue of $0.8 billion in GME; and (9) decreased lease
financing revenue of $0.7 billion related to the continued liquidation of the portfolio of automotive retail leases.   
  These decreases in Total net sales and revenue were partially offset by: (1) improved pricing, lower sales incentives and improved
lease residuals of $5.4 billion in GMNA; (2) favorable vehicle mix of $2.8 billion in GMNA; (3) favorable vehicle pricing of $1.3 billion in GME; (4) decreased derivative losses of $0.9 billion in GMIO;
(5) favorable pricing of $0.4 billion in GMSA, primarily due to a 60% price increase in Venezuela due to high inflation; and (6) favorable vehicle mix of $0.3 billion in GMIO driven by launches of new vehicle models at GM Daewoo.
      Automotive Cost of Sales        
     GM    
  In the year ended December 31, 2010 Automotive cost of sales included: (1) restructuring charges of $0.8 billion in GME
primarily for separation programs announced in Belgium, Spain, Germany and the United Kingdom; (2) foreign currency remeasurement losses of $0.5 billion in GMNA; (3) charges of $0.2 billion for a recall campaign on windshield fluid heaters
in GMNA; (4) impairment charges related to product-specific tooling assets of $0.2 billion in GMNA; partially offset by (5) favorable adjustments of $0.4 billion to restructuring reserves primarily due to increased production capacity
utilization in GMNA; and (6) foreign currency transaction gains of $0.3 billion in GMSA.      In the period
July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 Automotive cost of sales included: (1) a settlement loss of $2.6 billion related to the termination of the UAW hourly retiree medical plan and Mitigation Plan in GMNA; (2) foreign
currency remeasurement losses of $1.3 billion in GMNA; partially offset by (3) favorable adjustments of $0.7 billion in GMNA, $0.5 billion in GME and $0.1 billion in GMIO due to the sell through of inventory acquired from Old GM at
July 10, 2009; and (4) foreign currency transaction gains of $0.5 billion primarily in Corporate.       Old GM
      In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Automotive cost of sales included: (1) incremental
depreciation charges of $2.1 billion in GMNA and $0.7 billion in GME; (2) a curtailment loss of $1.4 billion upon the interim remeasurement of the U.S. hourly defined benefit pension plans in GMNA; (3) separation program charges and
Canadian restructuring activities of $1.1 billion in GMNA; (4) charges of $0.8 billion primarily related to the deconsolidation of Saab; (5) foreign currency translation and remeasurement losses of $0.7 billion in GMNA; (6) impairment
charges of $0.4 billion in GMNA and $0.2 billion in GME primarily for product-specific tooling; (7) foreign currency transaction losses of $0.5 billion in GMSA; (8) derivative losses of $0.5 billion related to commodity and foreign
currency exchange derivatives in GMNA; (9) a charge of $1.1 billion related to the Supplemental Unemployment Benefit (SUB) and the Transitional Support Program (TSP), partially offset by a favorable adjustment of $0.7 billion primarily related
to the suspension of the JOBS Program, Old GM s job security provision of the collective bargaining agreement with the UAW to continue paying idled employees certain wages and benefits in GMNA; and (10) charges of $0.3 billion related to
obligations associated with various Delphi agreements in GMNA.   
         73   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 negative gross margin
reflected sales volumes at historically low levels and Automotive cost of sales, including costs that are fixed in nature, exceeding Total net sales and revenue.      In the year ended December 31, 2008 Automotive cost of sales included: (1) restructuring charges and other costs of $6.0 billion related to Old GM s special attrition programs in GMNA;
(2) expenses of $1.7 billion related to the salaried post-65 healthcare settlement in GMNA; (3) impairment charges of $0.5 billion in GME and $0.4 billion in GMNA primarily related to product-specific tooling; (4) commodity and
foreign currency exchange derivative losses of $0.8 billion in GMNA; (5) charges of $0.3 billion associated with the finalization of Old GM s negotiations with the CAW in GMNA; (6) restructuring charges of $0.3 billion related to
separation programs announced in Belgium, France, Germany and the United Kingdom in GME; (7) foreign currency transaction losses of $0.3 billion in GMSA primarily due to foreign currency exchanges processed outside CADIVI in Venezuela;
partially offset by (8) net curtailment gain of $4.9 billion in GMNA related to the February 2008 Settlement Agreement for the UAW hourly medical plan; and (9) foreign currency remeasurement gains of $2.1 billion driven by the weakening of
the Canadian Dollar against the U.S. Dollar in GMNA.       Automotive Selling, General and Administrative Expense
       
     GM    
  In the year ended December 31, 2010 Automotive selling, general and administrative expense included: (1) advertising and sales
promotion expenses of $5.1 billion to support media campaigns for our products, including expenses in GMNA of $3.4 billion, in GME of $0.8 billion, in GMIO of $0.6 billion and in GMSA of $0.3 billion; (2) administrative expenses of
$4.4 billion, including expenses in GMNA of $2.0 billion, in GMIO of $0.8 billion, in GME of $0.6 billion and in GMSA of $0.5 billion; and (3) selling and marketing expenses of $1.4 billion primarily to support our dealerships including
expenses in GMNA of $0.6 billion, in GME of $0.5 billion, in GMIO of $0.2 billion and in GMSA of $0.1 billion.      In the period
July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 Automotive selling, general and administrative expense included: (1) advertising and sales promotion expenses of $2.5 billion to support media campaigns for our products, including expenses in
GMNA of $1.7 billion, in GME of $0.4 billion, in GMIO of $0.3 billion and in GMSA of $0.1 billion; (2) administrative expenses of $2.6 billion, including expenses in GMNA of $1.1 billion, in GMIO of $0.5 billion, in GME of $0.3 billion and
in GMSA of $0.2 billion; and (3) selling and marketing expenses of $1.0 billion primarily to support our dealerships including expenses in GMNA of $0.6 billion, in GME of $0.3 billion, in GMIO of $0.1 billion and in GMSA of $0.1 billion.
      Old GM       In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Automotive selling, general and administrative expense included: (1) charges of $0.5 billion recorded for dealer wind-down costs in GMNA;
and (2) a curtailment loss of $0.3 billion upon the interim remeasurement of the U.S. salary defined benefit pension plan as a result of global salary workforce reductions. This was partially offset by the positive effects of various cost
savings initiatives, the cancellation of certain sales and promotion contracts as a result of the Chapter 11 Proceedings in the U.S. and overall reductions in advertising and marketing budgets.   
  In the year ended December 31, 2008 Automotive selling, general and administrative expense included: (1) advertising and sales
promotion expenses of $6.3 billion to support media campaigns for our products, including expenses in GMNA of $4.0 billion, in   
         74   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
GME of $1.3 billion, in GMIO of $0.8 billion and in GMSA of $0.2 billion; (2) administrative expenses of $5.8 billion, including expenses in GMNA of $2.8 billion, in GMIO of $0.9
billion, in GME of $0.7 billion and in GMSA of $0.4 billion; and (3) selling and marketing expenses of $1.9 billion primarily to support our dealerships including expenses in GMNA of $0.9 billion, in GME of $0.7 billion, in GMIO of $0.2 billion
and in GMSA of $0.1 billion.       Other Automotive Expenses, net    
   
     GM    
  In the year ended December 31, 2010 Other automotive expenses, net included primarily depreciation expense of $0.1 billion related
to our portfolio of automotive retail leases.      In the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 Other
automotive expenses, net included: (1) depreciation expense and realized losses of $89 million related to the portfolio of automotive retail leases; (2) pension management expenses of $38 million; (3) interest expense related to our
dealer financing program of $13 million; partially offset by (3) gains in GME for changes in liabilities related to Saab of $60 million; (4) recovery of amounts written off of $51 million related to the portfolio of automotive retail
leases; and (5) gain on sale of vehicles of $19 million related to the portfolio of automotive retail leases.       Old GM
      In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Other automotive expenses, net included: (1) charges of
$0.8 billion in GME, primarily related to the deconsolidation of Saab; (2) charges of $0.2 billion related to Delphi; and (3) depreciation expense of $0.1 billion related to the portfolio of automotive retail leases.   
  In the year ended December 31, 2008 Other automotive expenses, net included: (1) charges related to the Delphi Benefit
Guarantee Agreements of $4.8 billion; (2) depreciation expense of $0.7 billion related to the portfolio of automotive retail leases; (3) Goodwill impairment charges of $0.6 billion; (4) operating expenses of $0.4 billion related to
the portfolio of automotive retail leases; and (5) interest expense of $0.1 billion.       Equity in Income (Loss) of and
Disposition of Interest in Ally Financial        
 
         75   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Old GM       In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Equity in loss of and disposition of interest in Ally Financial included: (1) Gain of $2.5 billion recorded on the UST s conversion
of the UST Ally Financial Loan for Class B Membership Interests in Ally Financial; partially offset by (2) Old GM s proportionate share of Ally Financial s loss from operations on $1.1 billion.   
  In the year ended December 31, 2008 Equity in loss of and disposition of interest in Ally Financial included: (1) impairment
charges of $7.1 billion related to Old GM s investment in Ally Financial Common Membership Interests; partially offset by (2) Old GM s proportionate share of Ally Financial s income from operations of $0.9 billion.   
   Automotive Interest Expense        
     GM    
  In the year ended December 31, 2010 Automotive interest expense included: (1) interest expense of $0.4 billion on GMIO and GMSA
debt; (2) interest expense of $0.3 billion on the UST Loans, Canadian Loan and VEBA Notes; and (3) interest expense of $0.3 billion on GMNA debt.      In the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 Automotive interest expense included interest expense of $0.3 billion on the UST Loans and interest expense of $0.2 billion on GMIO debt.
      Old GM       In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Automotive interest expense included: (1) amortization of discounts related to the UST Loan, EDC Loan, and DIP Facilities of $3.7 billion;
and (2) interest expense of $1.7 billion primarily related to interest expense of $0.8 billion on unsecured debt balances, $0.4 billion on the UST Loan Facility and $0.2 billion on GMIO and GMSA debt. Old GM ceased accruing and paying interest
on most of its unsecured U.S. and foreign denominated debt on June 1, 2009, the date of its Chapter 11 Proceedings.      In
the year ended December 31, 2008 Automotive interest expense included: (1) interest expense of $1.6 billion on Old GM s unsecured bonds; (2) interest expense of $0.4 billion Old GM s Euro bonds and cross-currency swaps to
hedge foreign exchange rate exposure; and (3) interest expense of $0.1 billion on Old GM s secured revolving credit facility and U.S. term loan.       Interest Income and Other Non-Operating Income, net        
 
         76   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    GM       In the year ended December 31, 2010 Interest income and other non-operating income, net included; (1) interest income earned from investments of $0.5 billion; (2) dividends and royalties of
$0.2 billion; (3) rental income of $0.2 billion; (4) reversal of liability related to the Adjustment Shares of $0.2 billion; (5) gain on sale of Saab of $0.1 billion; (6) gain on sale of Nexteer of $0.1 billion; (7) gain on
bargain purchase and the fair value of the recognizable assets acquired and liabilities assumed of $0.1 billion related to the acquisition of GM Strasbourg (GMS); (8) gain on derivatives of $0.1 billion; and (8) Ally Financial exclusivity
fee of $0.1 billion in GMNA.      In the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 Interest income and other
non-operating income, net included: (1) gains on foreign currency exchange derivatives of $0.3 billion; (2) interest income earned from investments of $0.2 billion; (3) net rental and royalty income of $0.2 billion in GMNA; partially
offset by (4) liability recorded related to the Adjustment Shares of $0.2 billion.       Old GM    
  In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Interest income and other non-operating income, net included:
(1) interest income of $0.2 billion earned from investments; (2) gains on derivatives of $0.2 billion related to the return of warrants issued to the UST; (3) gains on foreign currency exchange derivatives of $0.1 billion;
(4) dividends on the investment in Ally Financial Preferred Membership Interests of $0.1 billion; (5) net rental income of $0.1 billion in GMNA; (6) royalty income of $0.1 billion in GMNA; and (7) Ally Financial exclusivity
fee income of $0.1 billion in GMNA.      In the year ended December 31, 2008 Interest income and other non-operating income,
net included: (1) interest income earned from investments of $0.7 billion; (2) rental income of $0.2 billion; (3) dividends and royalties of $0.2 billion; (4) Ally Financial exclusivity fee income of $0.1 billion in GMNA;
partially offset by (5) impairment charge of $1.0 billion related to our investment in Ally Financial Preferred Membership Interests.       Gain (Loss) on Extinguishment of Debt        
     GM    
  In the year ended December 31, 2010 Gain (loss) on extinguishment of debt included a gain of $0.2 billion resulting from our
repayment of the outstanding amount of VEBA Notes of $2.8 billion.       Old GM    
  In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Loss on extinguishment of debt included a loss of $2.0 billion related to
the UST exercising its option to convert outstanding amounts of the UST Ally Financial Loan into shares of Ally Financial s Class B Common Membership Interests. This loss was partially offset by a gain on extinguishment of debt of $0.9 billion
related to an amendment to Old GM s U.S. term loan.      In the year ended December 31, 2008 Gain (loss) on
extinguishment of debt included a gain of $43 million resulting from a settlement gain recorded for the issuance of 44 million shares of common stock in exchange for $498 million principal amount of Old GM s Series D debentures, which were
retired and canceled.   
         77   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Reorganization gains, net    
   
     Old GM
      In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Reorganization gains, net included: (1) the gain on
conversion of debt of $37.5 billion; (2) the change in net assets resulting from the application of fresh-start reporting of $33.8 billion; (3) the gain from the settlement of net liabilities retained by MLC of $25.2 billion; and
(4) the fair value of Series A Preferred stock, common shares and warrants issued in connection with the 363 Sale of $20.5 billion.       Income Tax Expense (Benefit)        
     GM    
  In the year ended December 31, 2010 Income tax expense of $0.7 billion primarily resulted from current and deferred income tax
provisions of $0.6 billion for profitable entities without valuation allowances, $0.3 billion withholding taxes and taxable foreign exchange gain in Venezuela, partially offset by $0.3 billion settlement of uncertain tax positions and reversal of
valuation allowances.      In the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 Income tax benefit of $1.0 billion
primarily resulted from a $1.4 billion income tax allocation between operations and Other comprehensive income, partially offset by income tax provisions of $0.3 billion for profitable entities without valuation allowances. Our U.S.
operations incurred losses from operations with no income tax benefit due to full valuation allowances against our U.S. deferred tax assets, and we had Other comprehensive income, primarily due to remeasurement gains on our U.S. pension plans. We
recorded income tax expense related to the remeasurement gains in Other comprehensive income and allocated income tax benefit to operations.       Old GM       In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009
Income tax benefit of $1.2 billion primarily resulted from the reversal of valuation allowances of $0.7 billion related to Reorganization gains, net and the resolution of a transfer pricing matter of $0.7 billion with the U.S. and Canadian
governments, partially offset by income tax provisions for profitable entities without valuation allowances.      In the year
ended December 31, 2008 Income tax expense of $1.8 billion primarily resulted from the recording of valuation allowances of $1.9 billion against deferred tax assets in South Korea, the United Kingdom, Spain, Australia, Texas and various
non-U.S. jurisdictions.   
         78   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Equity Income, net of tax    
   
     GM       In the year ended December 31, 2010 Equity income, net of tax included equity income of $1.3 billion related to our China JVs, primarily SGM and SGMW and equity income of $0.1 billion related to New
Delphi.      In the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 equity income, net of tax included equity income of
$0.5 billion related to our China JVs, primarily SGM and SGMW.       Old GM    
  In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Equity income, net of tax included equity income of $0.3 billion related to
our China JV s, primarily SGM and SGMW partially offset by equity losses of $0.2 billion primarily related to impairment charges at NUMMI and our proportionate share of losses at CAMI.   
  In the year ended December 31, 2008 Equity income, net of tax included equity income of $0.3 billion related to our China JVs,
primarily SGM and SGMW partially offset by equity losses of $0.1 billion primarily related to our investments in NUMMI and CAMI.   
         79   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     Changes in Consolidated Financial Condition     
    (Dollars in Millions, Except Share Amounts)         

80   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Automotive         Current Assets        At December 31, 2010 Marketable securities of
$5.6 billion increased by $5.4 billion due to investments in securities with maturities exceeding 90 days reflecting our improved liquidity and cash position.      At December 31, 2010 Restricted cash and marketable securities of $1.2 billion decreased by $12.7 billion (or 91.1%) primarily due to: (1) UST escrow funds of $6.6 billion became unrestricted
upon our repayment of the UST Loans and Canadian Loan; (2) release of $4.7 billion from our UST escrow funds to repay the UST Loans; and (3) release of $1.2 billion from our UST escrow funds for quarterly payments on the UST Loans and
Canadian Loan.      At December 31, 2010 Accounts and notes receivable of $8.7 billion increased by $1.2 billion (or 15.7%)
primarily due to higher sales volumes in all regions.      At December 31, 2010 Inventories of $12.1 billion increased by
$2.0 billion (or 20.0%) primarily due to increased production resulting from higher demand for our products and new product launches.      At December 31, 2010 Assets held for sale were reduced to $0 from $0.4 billion at December 31, 2009 due to the sale of Saab in February 2010 and the sale of Saab GB in May 2010.   
  At December 31, 2010 Equipment on operating leases, net of $2.6 billion decreased by $0.2 billion (or 5.8%) due to: (1) a
decrease of $0.3 billion due to the continued liquidation of our portfolio of automotive retail leases; (2) a decrease of $0.1 billion in GME due to overall volume decreases in Germany; partially offset by (3) an increase of $0.2 billion
in GMNA, primarily related to vehicles leased to daily rental car companies (vehicles leased to U.S. daily rental car companies increased to 118,000 vehicles at December 31, 2010 from 97,000 vehicles at December 31, 2009).   
    Non-Current Assets        At December 31, 2010 Restricted cash and marketable securities of $1.2 billion decreased by $0.3 billion (or 22.1%) primarily due to a reduction in required cash collateral arrangements as a result
of our improved credit conditions compared to December 31, 2009.      At December 31, 2010 Equity in net assets of
nonconsolidated affiliates of $8.5 billion increased by $0.6 billion (or 7.5%) due to: (1) equity income of $1.4 billion in the year ended December 31, 2010, primarily related to our China JVs; (2) investment of $0.4 billion in SGMW;
(3) investment of $0.2 billion in HKJV; partially offset by (4) dividends received or declared of $1.2 billion, primarily related to our China JVs; (5) a decrease of $0.2 billion related to the sale of our 50% interest in a joint
venture; and (6) a decrease of $0.1 billion related to the sale of a 1% ownership interest in SGM to SAIC.      At
December 31, 2010 Property, net of $19.2 billion increased by $0.5 billion (or 2.9%) primarily due to: (1) capital expenditures, of $4.2 billion; (2) accruals and capital leases of $0.5 billion; partially offset by
(2) depreciation of $3.8 billion; (3) decreases associated with disposals of businesses of $0.3 billion; and (4) unfavorable foreign currency translation effect of $0.1 billion.   
  At December 31, 2010 Goodwill of $30.5 billion decreased by $0.2 billion (or 0.5%) primarily due to unfavorable foreign currency
translation effect in GME resulting from the Euro weakening against the U.S. dollar.      At December 31, 2010 Intangible
assets, net of $11.9 billion decreased by $2.7 billion (or 18.3%) primarily due to amortization of $2.6 billion and foreign currency translation of $0.1 billion.      At December 31, 2010 Deferred income taxes of $0.3 billion decreased by $0.3 billion (or 45.4%) primarily due to reclassifications of deferred tax assets and changes in the allocation of valuation
allowances resulting from underlying changes in the timing of tax deductions.   
         81   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   At December 31, 2010 Assets held for sale were reduced to $0 from $0.5 billion at
December 31, 2009 due to the sale of certain of our India operations (GM India) in February 2010. We classified these Assets held for sale as long-term at December 31, 2009 because we received a promissory note in exchange for GM India
that does not convert to cash within one year.      At December 31, 2010 Other assets of $3.3 billion increased by $0.7
billion (or 25.3%) primarily due to: (1) increase of $0.3 billion in long-term notes receivable resulting primarily from the sale of GM India of $0.2 billion; (2) increase of $0.1 billion due to capitalization of debt issuance costs
associated with the secured revolving credit facility; and (3) increase of $0.1 billion due to amounts paid into insurance funds for employees in early retirement programs.   
    Current Liabilities        At December 31, 2010 Accounts payable of $21.5 billion increased by $2.8 billion (or 14.8%) primarily due to higher payables for materials due to increased production volumes.   
  At December 31, 2010 Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt of $1.6 billion decreased by $8.6 billion (or 84.2%)
primarily due to: (1) repayment of the UST Loans and Canadian Loan of $7.0 billion; (2) repayment of the GM Daewoo credit facility of $1.2 billion; and (3) a net change in other obligations of $0.4 billion.   
  At December 31, 2010 Liabilities held for sale were reduced to $0 from $0.4 billion at December 31, 2009 due to the sale of
Saab in February 2010 and the sale of Saab GB in May 2010 to Spyker Cars NV.      At December 31, 2010 Accrued liabilities of
$23.4 billion increased by $1.1 billion (or 5.1%) primarily due to: (1) increase in GMNA due to higher customer deposits related to the increased number of vehicles leased to daily rental car companies of $0.5 billion; (2) increase due to
tax related accruals reclassified from non-current to current of $0.3 billion; and (3) other miscellaneous accruals of $0.3 billion.        Non-Current Liabilities        At December 31, 2010 Long-term debt
of $3.0 billion decreased by $2.5 billion (or 45.8%), primarily due to the repayment in full of the VEBA Notes composed of the outstanding amount (together with accreted interest thereon) of $2.8 billion and resulting gain of $0.2 billion, partially
offset by additional net borrowings of $0.4 billion and unfavorable foreign currency translation effect of $0.1 billion.      At
December 31, 2010 Liabilities held for sale were reduced to $0 from $0.3 billion at December 31, 2009 due to the sale of GM India in February 2010. We classified these Liabilities held for sale as long-term at December 31, 2009
because we received a promissory note in exchange for GM India that does not convert to cash within one year.      At
December 31, 2010 our Postretirement benefits other than pensions liability of $9.3 billion increased by $0.6 billion (or 6.7%) primarily due to year-end remeasurement effects of $0.4 billion driven by discount rate reductions in the valuation
assumptions and unfavorable foreign currency translation effect of $0.2 billion due to the strengthening of the Canadian dollar against the U.S dollar.      At December 31, 2010 our Pensions liability of $21.9 billion decreased by $5.2 billion (or 19.2%) primarily due to net contributions and benefit payments of $4.9 billion and favorable foreign
currency translation effect of $0.3 billion. Gains from asset returns greater than expected were primarily offset by actuarial losses from discount rate decreases.      At December 31, 2010 Other liabilities and deferred income taxes of $13.0 billion decreased by $0.3 billion (or 1.9%) primarily due to: (1) decrease in plant closing liability in GMNA due to
payments made in 2010 and employee related adjustments of $0.4 billion; (2) decrease due to tax related accruals classified to current of $0.3 billion; partially offset by (3) increase in deferred taxes of $0.4 billion.   
         82   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Automotive Financing         Total GM Financial Assets        At December 31, 2010 Total GM
Financial Assets of $10.9 billion was primarily composed of net automotive finance receivables of $8.2 billion, Goodwill of $1.3 billion related to the acquisition of AmeriCredit, including amounts recorded to reflect the changes in the valuation
allowance on deferred tax assets that were not applicable to GM Financial on a stand-alone basis and restricted cash of $1.1 billion associated with GM Financial s credit facilities and securitization notes payable.   
    Total GM Financial Liabilities        At December 31, 2010 Total GM Financial Liabilities of $7.4 billion was primarily composed of securitization notes payable of $6.1 billion issued in the asset backed securities market and advances on
credit facilities of $0.8 billion.        GM North America     
    (Dollars in Millions)         
     Production and Vehicle
Sales Volume       The following tables summarize total production volume and new motor vehicle sales volume and competitive
position (in thousands):       

(a)  
  Production volume includes vehicles produced by certain joint ventures.         
 
         83   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          

(a)  
  Vehicle sales primarily represent sales to the ultimate customer.         

(b)  
  Includes HUMMER, Saturn and Pontiac vehicle sales data.         

(c)  
  Our vehicle sales include Saab data through February 2010.         

(d)  
  Vehicle sales data may include rounding differences.         

(e)  
  Certain fleet sales that are accounted for as operating leases are included in vehicle sales at time of delivery to the daily rental car companies.

(a)  
  Vehicle sales primarily represent sales to the ultimate customer.         

(b)  
  Includes HUMMER, Saturn and Pontiac vehicle sales data.         

(c)  
  Our vehicle sales include Saab data through February 2010.         

(d)  
  Vehicle sales data may include rounding differences.         

(e)  
  Certain fleet sales that are accounted for as operating leases are included in vehicle sales at the time of delivery to the daily rental car companies.
         GMNA Total Net Sales and Revenue     
    (Dollars in Millions)         
 
         84   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   In the year ended December 31, 2010 Total net sales and revenue increased by $26.4
billion (or 46.7%) primarily due to: (1) increased wholesale volumes of $19.8 billion representing 873,000 vehicles (or 42.7%) due to an improving economy and successful recent vehicle launches of the Chevrolet Equinox, Chevrolet Cruze, GMC
Terrain, Buick LaCrosse and Cadillac SRX; (2) favorable pricing of $2.9 billion due to decreased sales allowances partially offset by less favorable adjustments in the U.S. to the accrual for U.S. residual support programs for leased vehicles
of $0.4 billion (favorable of $0.7 billion in 2010 compared to favorable of $1.1 billion in 2009); (3) favorable vehicle mix of $1.6 billion due to increased crossover and truck sales; (4) increased sales of $1.0 billion due to the
acquisition of Nexteer and four domestic component manufacturing facilities; (5) favorable net foreign currency remeasurement effect of $0.8 billion primarily driven by the strengthening of the Canadian Dollar against the U.S. Dollar; and
(6) increased revenues from OnStar of $0.3 billion primarily due to increased volumes.      In the year ended
December 31, 2009 Total net sales and revenue decreased by $29.6 billion (or 34.3%) primarily due to: (1) decreased revenue of $36.7 billion related to volume reductions; partially offset by (2) improved pricing, lower sales
incentives and improved lease residuals of $5.4 billion; and (3) favorable vehicle mix of $2.8 billion. The decrease in vehicle sales volumes was primarily due to tight credit markets, increased unemployment rates and a recession in North
America, Old GM s well publicized liquidity issues and Chapter 11 Proceedings; partially offset by improved vehicle sales related to the CARS program and an increase in dealer showroom traffic and related vehicle sales in response to our new
60-Day satisfaction guarantee program.        GMNA Earnings Before Interest and Income Taxes     
    (Dollars in Millions)         
    The most significant
factors which influence GMNA s profitability are industry volume (primarily U.S. seasonally adjusted annual rate (SAAR)) and market share. While not as significant as industry volume and market share, another factor affecting GMNA profitability
is the relative mix of vehicles (cars, trucks, crossovers) sold. Contribution margin is a key indicator of product profitability. Contribution margin is defined as revenue less material cost, freight, and policy and warranty expense. Vehicles with
higher selling prices generally have higher contribution margins. Trucks currently have a contribution margin of approximately 140% of our portfolio on a weighted-average basis. Crossover vehicles  contribution margins are in line with the
overall portfolio on a weighted-average basis, and cars are approximately 60% of the portfolio on a weighted-average basis. As such, a sudden shift in consumer preference from trucks to cars would have an unfavorable effect on GMNA s EBIT and
breakeven point. For example, a shift in demand such that industry market share for trucks deteriorated 10 percentage points and industry market share for cars increased by 10 percentage points, holding other variables constant, would have increased
GMNA s breakeven point for the year ended December 31, 2010, as measured in terms of GMNA factory unit sales, by 200,000 vehicles. For the year ended December 31, 2010 our U.S. car market share was 14.3% and our U.S. truck market
share was 23.0%. We continue to strive to achieve a product portfolio with more balanced contribution margins and less susceptibility to shifts in consumer demand.       GM       In the year ended December 31, 2010 EBIT was $5.7 billion and
included: (1) favorable adjustments of $0.4 billion to restructuring reserves primarily due to increased production capacity utilization, which resulted in the recall of idled employees to fill added shifts at multiple U.S. production sites and
revisions to productivity initiatives; offset by (2) advertising and sales promotion expenses of $3.4 billion primarily to support media campaigns for our products; (3) administrative expenses of $2.0 billion; (4) selling and
marketing expenses of $0.6 billion related to our dealerships; (5) foreign currency remeasurement losses of $0.5 billion primarily driven by the strengthening of the Canadian Dollar against the U.S. Dollar; (6) charges of $0.2 billion for
a recall campaign on windshield fluid heaters; and (7) impairment charges related to product-specific tooling assets of $0.2 billion.   
         85   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   In the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 EBIT was a loss of $4.8
billion and included: (1) settlement loss of $2.6 billion related to the termination of our UAW hourly retiree medical plan and Mitigation Plan; (2) foreign currency remeasurement losses of $1.3 billion driven by the general strengthening
of the Canadian Dollar versus the U.S. Dollar; (3) charges of $0.3 billion related to dealer wind-down costs for our Saturn dealers after plans to sell the Saturn brand and dealerships network were terminated; partially offset by
(4) favorable adjustments in Automotive cost of sales of $0.7 billion due to the sell through of inventory acquired from Old GM at July 10, 2009. As required under U.S. GAAP, the acquired inventory was recorded at fair value as of the
acquisition date using a market participant approach, which for work in process and finished goods inventory considered the estimated selling price of the inventory less the costs a market participant would incur to complete, sell and dispose of the
inventory, which may be different than our costs, and the profit margin required for its completion and disposal effort.   
   Old GM    
  In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 EBIT was a loss of $11.1 billion and included: (1) incremental
depreciation charges of $2.1 billion recorded by Old GM prior to the 363 Sale for facilities included in GMNA s restructuring activities and for certain facilities that MLC retained; (2) curtailment loss of $1.7 billion upon the interim
remeasurement of the U.S. hourly and U.S. salaried defined benefit pension plans as a result of the 2009 Special Attrition Programs and salaried workforce reductions; (3) U.S. hourly and salary separation program charges and Canadian
restructuring activities of $1.1 billion; (4) foreign currency remeasurement losses of $0.7 billion driven by the general strengthening of the Canadian Dollar against the U.S. Dollar; (5) charges of $0.5 billion incurred for dealer
wind-down costs; (6) derivative losses of $0.5 billion related to commodity and foreign currency exchange derivatives; (7) a charge of $1.1 billion related to the SUB and TSP, partially offset by a favorable adjustment of $0.7 billion primarily
related to the suspension of the JOBS Program; (8) charges of $0.4 billion primarily for impairments for special-tooling and product related machinery and equipment; (9) charges of $0.3 billion related to obligations associated with
various Delphi agreements; and (10) equity losses of $0.3 billion related to impairment charges at NUMMI and our proportionate share of losses at CAMI. MLC retained the investment in NUMMI, and CAMI has been consolidated since March 1,
2009.      In the year ended December 31, 2008 EBIT was a loss of $12.2 billion and included: (1) charges of $6.0
billion related to restructuring and other costs associated with Old GM s special attrition programs; (2) advertising and sales promotion expenses of $4.0 billion primarily to support media campaigns for our products;
(3) administrative expenses of $2.8 billion; (4) expenses of $1.7 billion related to the salaried post-65 healthcare settlement; (5) selling and marketing expenses of $0.9 billion related to our dealerships; (6) losses of $0.8
billion related to commodity and foreign currency exchange derivatives; (7) impairment charges related to product-specific tooling assets of $0.4 billion; and (8) charges of $0.3 billion associated with the finalization of Old GM s
negotiations with the CAW partially offset by (9) net curtailment gain of $4.9 billion related to the 2008 UAW Settlement Agreement; and (10) foreign currency remeasurement gains of $2.1 billion driven by the weakening of the Canadian
Dollar against the U.S. Dollar.        GM Europe     
    (Dollars in Millions)         
 
         86   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Production and Vehicle Sales Volume    
  The following tables summarize total production volume and new motor vehicle sales volume and competitive position (in thousands):

(a)  
  Vehicle sales primarily represent estimated sales to the ultimate customer. In countries where end customer data is not readily available other data sources, such as
wholesale volumes, are used to estimate vehicle sales.         

(b)  
  The financial results (primarily Automotive sales and Automotive cost of sales) from Chevrolet brand products sold in GME are primarily reported as part of GMIO.
Chevrolet brand products included in GME vehicle sales volume and market share data was 477,000 vehicles in the year ended December 31, 2010. Combined GM and Old GM Chevrolet brand products included in GME vehicle sales and market share data
was 426,000 vehicles in the year ended December 31, 2009. Old GM Chevrolet brand products included in GME vehicle sales and market share data was 510,000 vehicles in the year ended December 31, 2008. Vehicle sales volume are reported in
the geographical region they are sold.         

(c)  
  Our vehicle sales include Saab data through February 2010.         

(d)  
  Vehicle sales data may include rounding differences.         

(e)  
  Certain fleet sales that are accounted for as operating leases are included in vehicle sales at the time of delivery to the daily rental car companies.
         GME Total Net Sales and Revenue     
    (Dollars in Millions)         
 
         87   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   In the year ended December 31, 2010 Total net sales and revenue increased by $45
million (or 0.2%) primarily due to: (1) increased wholesale volumes of $0.5 billion representing 38,000 vehicles (or 3.1%) primarily due to 31,000 Buick Regals exported to the U.S., and increases in Turkey by 17,000 vehicles (or 68.9%), in
Russia by 14,000 vehicles (or 48.9%), in the United Kingdom by 13,000 vehicles (or 5.0%), in the Netherlands by 12,000 vehicles (or 37.8%), in Portugal by 11,000 vehicles (or 103.0%), in Italy by 11,000 (or 9.0%), partially offset by a decrease in
Germany of 113,000 vehicles (or 33.0%) driven by the end of the government subsidies program. The net wholesale volume increase was offset by a decrease in wholesale volumes throughout the region of $0.5 billion representing 17,000 vehicles due to
the sale of Saab in February 2010; (2) favorable vehicle mix of $0.5 billion primarily due to the Opel Insignia and increased sales of other higher priced vehicles; (3) favorable vehicle pricing effect of $0.5 billion driven by launches of
the Opel Astra and Opel Meriva; partially offset by (4) unfavorable net foreign currency translation effect of $0.7 billion, primarily due to the weakening of the Euro and British Pound against the U.S. Dollar; and (5) lower volumes of
rental car activity and subsequent repurchases sold at auction of $0.2 billion.      In the year ended December 31, 2009
Total net sales and revenue decreased by $10.6 billion (or 30.6%) primarily due to: (1) decreased wholesale volumes of $4.8 billion representing 405,000 vehicles (or 24.8%) primarily due to decreases in the United Kingdom by 99,000 vehicles (or
26.7%), in Russia by 69,000 vehicles (or 70.2%), in Italy by 25,000 vehicles (or 16.8%), and exports to the U.S. by 33,000 vehicles (or 94.4%), partially offset by an increase in Germany by 65,000 vehicles (or 23.4%) driven by the government subsidy
program. The decrease in vehicle sales volumes was primarily due to tight credit markets, increased unemployment rates, a recession in many international markets, Old GM s well publicized liquidity issues and Chapter 11 Proceedings and the
announcement that Old GM was seeking a majority investor in Adam Opel; (2) unfavorable net foreign currency translation and transaction effect of $3.7 billion driven primarily by the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Euro;
(3) decreased sales revenue at Saab of $1.2 billion; (4) decreased powertrain and parts and accessories revenue of $0.8 billion; partially offset by (5) favorable vehicle pricing effect of $1.3 billion.   
    GME Loss Before Interest and Income Taxes          (Dollars in Millions)         
     GM    
  In the year ended December 31, 2010 EBIT was a loss of $1.8 billion and included: (1) restructuring charges of $0.8 billion
primarily related to separation programs announced in Belgium, Spain, Germany and the United Kingdom; (2) advertising and sales promotion expenses of $0.8 billion primarily related to support media campaigns for our products;
(3) administrative expense of $0.6 billion; and (4) selling and marketing expenses of $0.5 billion related to our dealerships.      In the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 EBIT was a loss of $0.8 billion and included: (1) advertising and sales promotion expenses of $0.4 billion primarily related to support
media campaigns for our products; (2) administrative expense of $0.3 billion; (3) selling and marketing expenses of $0.3 billion related to our dealerships; partially offset by (4) favorable adjustments in Automotive cost of sales of
$0.5 billion due to the sell through of inventory acquired from Old GM at July 10, 2009. As required under U.S. GAAP, the acquired inventory was recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date using a market participant approach, which for
work in process and finished goods inventory considered the estimated selling price of the inventory less the costs a market participant would incur to complete, sell and dispose of the inventory, which may be different than our costs, and the
profit margin required for its completion and disposal effort.   
         88   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Old GM       In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 EBIT was a loss of $2.8 billion and included: (1) charges of $0.8 billion primarily related to the deconsolidation of Saab, which filed
for reorganization protection under the laws of Sweden in February 2009; (2) incremental depreciation charges of $0.7 billion related to restructuring activities; (3) impairment charges of $0.2 billion related to product-specific tooling
assets; and (4) operating losses of $0.2 billion related to Saab.      In the year ended December 31, 2008 EBIT was a
loss of $2.6 billion and included: (1) advertising and sales promotion expenses of $1.3 billion primarily related to support media campaigns for our products; (2) administrative expense of $0.7 billion; (3) selling and marketing
expenses of $0.7 billion related to our dealerships; (4) special tooling and product related machinery and equipment asset impairment charges of $0.5 billion; (5) goodwill impairment charges of $0.5 billion; and
(6) restructuring charges of $0.3 billion primarily related to separation programs announced in Belgium, France, Germany and the United Kingdom.        GM International Operations          (Dollars in Millions)
        
     Production and Vehicle
Sales Volume       The following tables summarize total production volume and new motor vehicle sales volume and competitive
position (in thousands):       

(a)  
  The joint venture agreements with SGMW (44%) and FAW-GM (50%) allow for significant rights as a member as well as the contractual right to report SGMW and
FAW-GM joint venture production in China.     
         89   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          

(a)  
  Vehicle sales primarily represent estimated sales to the ultimate customer. In countries where end customer data is not readily available other data sources, such as
wholesale volumes, are used to estimate vehicle sales.         

(b)  
  Includes HUMMER vehicle sales data.         

(c)  
  Vehicle sales data may include rounding differences.         

(d)  
  Our vehicle sales include Saab data through February 2010.         

(e)  
  Certain fleet sales that are accounted for as operating leases are included in vehicle sales at the time of delivery to the daily rental car companies.

(f)  
  The financial results (primarily Automotive sales and Automotive cost of sales) from Chevrolet brand products sold in GME are primarily reported as part of GMIO.
Chevrolet brand products included in GME vehicle sales volume and market share data was 477,000 vehicles in the year ended December 31, 2010. Combined GM and Old GM Chevrolet brand products included in GME vehicle sales and market share data
was 426,000 vehicles in the year ended December 31, 2009. Old GM Chevrolet brand products included in GME vehicle sales and market share data was 510,000 vehicles in the year ended December 31, 2008. Vehicle sales volume are reported in
the geographical region they are sold.         

(g)  
  Includes SGM joint venture vehicle sales in China of 1.0 million vehicles, SGMW and FAW-GM joint venture vehicle sales in China of 1.3 million vehicles and
HKJV joint venture vehicle sales in India of 110,000 vehicles in the year ended December 31, 2010. Combined GM and Old GM SGM joint venture vehicle sales in China of 708,000 vehicles and combined GM and Old GM SGMW and FAW-GM joint venture
vehicle sales in China of 1.1 million vehicles in the year ended December 31, 2009. Old GM SGM joint venture vehicle sales in China of 432,000 and Old GM SGMW joint venture vehicle sales in China of 647,000 vehicles in the year ended
December 31, 2008. We do not record revenue from our joint ventures  vehicle sales.         

(h)  
  The joint venture agreements with SGMW (44%) and FAW-GM (50%) allow for significant rights as a member as well as the contractual right to report SGMW and
FAW-GM joint venture vehicle sales in China as part of our global market share.          GMIO Total Net Sales and
Revenue          (Dollars in Millions)     

90   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   In the year ended December 31, 2010 Total net sales and revenue increased by $6.7
billion (or 45.2%) primarily due to: (1) increased wholesale volumes of $3.9 billion representing 118,000 vehicles (or 11.8%) primarily in the Middle East by 35,000 vehicles (or 28.2%) and in GM Daewoo by 100,000 vehicles (or 21.1%). The
primary driver for the increase in wholesale volumes was the global economic recovery, together with the effect of launches of the Chevrolet Cruze and Chevrolet Spark throughout the region; (2) favorable net foreign currency translation effect
of $0.9 billion, primarily due to the strengthening of the Korean Won, Australian Dollar and South African Rand against the U.S. Dollar; (3) favorable vehicle mix of $0.8 billion driven by the launch of the Chevrolet Cruze and increased sales
of sports utility vehicles; (4) favorable vehicle pricing effect of $0.1 billion, primarily due to higher pricing on new model launches at GM Daewoo; and (5) derivative losses of $0.8 billion in the period January 1, 2009 through
July 9, 2009, that did not recur in 2010, primarily driven by the weakening of the Korean Won against the U.S. Dollar in that period. Subsequent to July 10, 2009, all gains and losses on non-designated derivatives were recorded in
Interest income and other non-operating income, net.      In the year ended December 31, 2009 Total net sales and revenue
decreased by $9.3 billion (or 38.5%) primarily due to: (1) decreased wholesale volumes and lower exports of $9.1 billion representing 460,000 vehicles (or 31.6%) primarily in GM Daewoo by 247,000 vehicles (or 34.2%), in the Middle East by
103,000 vehicles (or 45.4%), in Australia by 59,000 vehicles (or 32.6%) and in Thailand by 53,000 vehicles (or 69.7%). The decrease in wholesale volumes was primarily due to tight credit markets, increased unemployment rates and Old GM s well
publicized liquidity issues and Chapter 11 Proceedings. These unfavorable trends were partially offset by many countries lowering interest rates and initiating programs to provide credit to consumers, which had a positive effect on vehicle sales
volumes; (2) unfavorable net foreign currency translation effect of $1.0 billion, primarily due to the strengthening of the U.S. Dollar against the Korean Won and Australian Dollar in 2009, partially offset by (3) decreased derivative
losses of $0.9 billion at GM Daewoo; and (4) favorable vehicle mix of $0.3 billion driven by launches of new vehicle models at GM Daewoo.      The vehicle sales related to our China and India (GM India was deconsolidated effective February 2010) joint ventures is not reflected in Total net sales and revenue. The results of our joint ventures are
recorded in Equity income, net of tax.        GMIO Earnings Before Interest and Income Taxes     
    (Dollars in Millions)         
     GM    
  In the year ended December 31, 2010 EBIT was $2.3 billion and included: (1) Equity income, net of tax, of $1.3 billion from the
operating results of our China JVs; (2) favorable change in fair value of $0.1 billion from derivatives driven by the stronger Korean Won versus the U.S. Dollar; partially offset by (3) administrative expenses of $0.8 billion;
(4) advertising and sales promotion expenses of $0.6 billion primarily to support media campaigns for our products; (5) unfavorable non-controlling interest attributable to minority shareholders of GM Daewoo and General Motors Egypt (GM
Egypt) of $0.3 billion; and (6) selling and marketing expenses of $0.2 billion related to labor costs in the selling department across GMIO and also costs incurred in the establishment of the Korean direct dealership network.   
  In the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 EBIT was $0.8 billion and included: (1) favorable depreciation of
fixed assets of $0.3 billion resulting from lower balances; and (2) favorable adjustments of $0.1 billion in Automotive cost of sales due to the sell through of inventory acquired from Old GM at July 10, 2009. As required under U.S. GAAP,
the acquired inventory was   
         91   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
recorded at fair value as of the acquisition date using a market participant approach, which for work in process and finished goods inventory considered the estimated selling price of the
inventory less the costs a market participant would incur to complete, sell and dispose of the inventory, which may be different than our costs, and the profit margin required for its completion and disposal effort; partially offset by
(3) administrative expenses of $0.5 billion; (4) advertising and sales promotion expenses of $0.3 billion primarily to support media campaigns for our products; (5) selling and marketing expenses of $0.1 billion; and
(6) unfavorable amortization of $0.1 billion related to intangible assets.       Old GM    
  In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 EBIT was a loss of $0.5 billion and included: (1) derivative losses of
$0.8 billion at GM Daewoo; (2) administrative expenses of $0.4 billion; (3) advertising and sales promotion expenses of $0.2 billion primarily to support media campaigns for our products; partially offset by (4) Equity income, net of
tax, of $0.3 billion primarily from the operating results of our China JVs; and (5) favorable effect of $0.1 billion related to the net loss attributable to minority shareholders of GM Daewoo.   
  In the year ended December 31, 2008 EBIT was a loss of $0.6 billion and included: (1) derivative losses of $1.7 billion at GM
Daewoo; (2) administrative expenses of $0.9 billion; (3) advertising and sales promotion expenses of $0.8 billion primarily to support media campaigns for our products; partially offset by (4) Equity income, net of tax, of $0.4
billion primarily from the operating results of our China JVs; (5) selling and marketing expenses of $0.2 billion; and (6) favorable effect of $0.1 billion related to the net loss attributable to minority shareholders of GM Daewoo.
       GM South America          (Dollars in Millions)         
     Production and
Vehicle Sales Volume       The following tables summarize total production volume and new motor vehicle sales volume and
competitive position (in thousands):       
 
         92   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          

(a)  
  Vehicle sales primarily represent estimated sales to the ultimate customer. In countries where end customer data is not readily available other data sources, such as
wholesale volumes, are used to estimate vehicle sales.         

(b)  
  Vehicle sales data may include rounding differences.         

(c)  
  Certain fleet sales that are accounted for as operating leases are included in vehicle sales at the time of delivery to the daily rental car companies.
         GMSA Total Net Sales and Revenue     
    (Dollars in Millions)         
    In the year ended
December 31, 2010 Total net sales and revenue increased by $2.2 billion (or 17.1%) primarily due to: (1) increased wholesale volumes of $2.2 billion representing 170,000 vehicles (or 19.1%) primarily in Brazil by 72,000 vehicles or
(11.7%), in Argentina by 32,000 vehicles (or 41.4%) and in Colombia by 21,000 vehicles (or 32.9%) driven by launches of the Chevrolet Cruze and Chevrolet Spark throughout the region; (2) favorable net foreign currency translation effect of $1.0
billion, primarily due to the strengthening of major currencies in 2010 against the U.S. Dollar such as the Brazilian Real and Colombian Peso; (3) favorable vehicle pricing effect of $0.3 billion, primarily in Venezuela driven by the
hyperinflationary economy; partially offset by (4) devaluation of the BsF in Venezuela of $0.9 billion; and (5) unfavorable vehicle mix of $0.4 billion driven by increased sales of the Chevrolet Spark and Chevrolet Aveo and decreased sales
of the Chevrolet Meriva, Vectra and S-10.      In the year ended December 31, 2009 Total net sales and revenue decreased by
$1.4 billion (or 9.6%) due to: (1) decreased wholesale volumes of $2.2 billion representing 30,000 vehicles (or 3.3%) primarily in Venezuela by 37,000 vehicles (or 44.1%), in Argentina by 19,000 vehicles (or 19.8%) and in Colombia by 13,000
vehicles (or 16.6%); partially offset by (2) favorable pricing effect of $0.4 billion primarily due to price increases in Venezuela driven by the hyperinflationary economy; and (3) increased wholesale volumes in Brazil of $0.2 billion
representing 56,000 vehicles (or 10.0%).        GMSA Earnings Before Interest and Income Taxes     
    (Dollars in Millions)         
 
         93   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    GM       In the year ended December 31, 2010 EBIT was $0.8 billion and included: (1) foreign currency transaction gains of $0.3 billion primarily due to foreign currency exchanges done at the
preferential rate in Venezuela; offset by (2) administrative expenses of $0.5 billion; (3) advertising and sales promotion expenses of $0.3 billion primarily to support media campaigns for our products; and (4) selling and marketing
expenses of $0.1 billion.      In the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 EBIT was $0.4 billion and included:
(1) administrative expenses of $0.2 billion; (2) advertising and sales promotion expenses of $0.1 billion; and (3) selling and marketing expenses of $0.1 billion.   
   Old GM    
  In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 EBIT was a loss of $0.5 billion and included: (1) foreign currency
transaction losses of $0.5 billion primarily due to foreign currency exchanges processed outside CADIVI in Venezuela; (2) administrative expenses of $0.2 billion; (3) advertising and sales promotion expenses of $0.1 billion; and
(4) selling and marketing expenses of $0.1 billion.      In the year ended December 31, 2008 EBIT was $1.1 billion and
included: (1) administrative expenses of $0.4 billion; (2) foreign currency transaction losses of $0.3 billion primarily due to foreign currency exchanges processed outside CADIVI in Venezuela; (3) advertising and sales promotion
expenses of $0.2 billion; and (4) selling and marketing expenses of $0.1 billion.        GM Financial     
    (Dollars in Millions)          Three Months Ended December 31, 2010         
    In the three months
ended December 31, 2010 Total revenue included finance charge income of $264 million and other income of $17 million. The effective yield on GM Financial s finance receivables was 12.1% for the three months ended December 31, 2010.
The effective yield represents finance charges and fees recorded in earnings and the accretion of the purchase accounting premium during the period as a percentage of average finance receivable.   
  Net margin is the difference between finance charge income and other income earned on GM Financial s finance receivables and the
cost to fund the receivables as well as the cost of debt incurred for general corporate purposes.      The following table
summarizes GM Financial s net margin and as a percentage of average finance receivables (dollars in millions):       
 
         94   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Income Before Income Taxes    
  In the three months ended December 31, 2010 results included: (1) Total revenue of $281 million; partially offset by
(2) operating and leased vehicle expenses of $73 million; (3) interest expense of $37 million; (4) provision for loan losses of $26 million; and (5) acquisition expenses of $16 million. GM Financial s operating expenses are
primarily related to personnel costs that include base salary and wages, performance incentives and benefits as well as related employment taxes. Provisions for loan losses are charged to income to bring the allowance for loan losses to a level
which management considers adequate to absorb probable credit losses inherent in the portfolio of finance receivables originated since October 1, 2010. Interest expense represents interest paid on GM Financial s warehouse credit
facilities, securitization notes payable, other unsecured debt and the amortization of the purchase accounting premium.   
  Average debt outstanding in the three months ended December 31, 2010 was $7.3 billion and the effective rate of interest expensed
was 2.0%.       Corporate    
   (Dollars in Millions)        
    Nonsegment operations are
classified as Corporate. Corporate includes investments in Ally Financial, certain centrally recorded income and costs, such as interest, income taxes and corporate expenditures, certain nonsegment specific revenues and expenses, including costs
related to the Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements and a portfolio of automotive retail leases.        Corporate Total Net
Sales and Revenue          (Dollars in Millions)     
   
    Total net sales and
revenue includes lease financing revenue from a portfolio of automotive retail leases.      In the year ended December 31,
2010 Total net sales and revenue decreased by $0.3 billion (or 71.4%) primarily due to decreased lease financing revenue related to the liquidation of the portfolio of automotive leases. Average outstanding automotive retail leases on-hand for GM
and combined GM and Old GM were 7,000 and 73,000 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009.      In the year ended
December 31, 2009 Total net sales and revenue decreased by $0.7 billion (or 61.2%) primarily due to decreased lease financing revenue of $0.7 billion related to the liquidation of the portfolio of automotive retail leases. Average
outstanding leases on-hand for combined GM and Old GM were 73,000 and 236,000 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008.   
         95   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     Corporate Net Income (Loss) Attributable to Stockholders     
    (Dollars in Millions)         
     GM    
  In the year ended December 31, 2010 results included: (1) Interest expense of $1.1 billion comprised of interest expense of
$0.3 billion on the UST Loans, Canadian Loan and VEBA Notes, interest expense of $0.3 billion on GMNA debt, and interest expense of $0.4 billion on GMIO and GMSA debt; (2) income tax expense of $0.6 billion primarily related to tax expense
attributable to profitable entities that do not have full valuation allowances recorded against deferred tax assets; (3) administrative expenses of $0.4 billion primarily related to consultants and services provided by outside companies;
partially offset by (4) interest income of $0.4 billion earned primarily on marketable securities held in GMSA; (5) the reversal of our $0.2 billion liability for the Adjustment Shares; (6) a gain on extinguishment of debt of $0.2
billion related to our repayment of the outstanding amount of VEBA Notes of $2.8 billion; and (7) dividends of $0.1 billion on our investment in Ally Financial preferred stock.   
  In the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 results included: (1) foreign currency transaction gains of $0.3
billion due to the appreciation of the Canadian Dollar versus the U.S. Dollar; and (2) interest expense of $0.7 billion composed of interest expense of $0.3 billion on UST Loans and interest expense of $0.2 billion on GMIO debt.   
   Old GM    
  In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 results included: (1) centrally recorded Reorganization gains, net of
$128.2 billion which is more fully discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements; (2) amortization of discounts related to the UST Loan, EDC Loan and DIP Facilities of $3.7 billion; (3) a gain recorded on the UST Ally
Financial Loan of $2.5 billion upon the UST s conversion of the UST Ally Financial Loan for Class B Common Membership Interests in Ally Financial, which gain resulted from the difference between the fair value and the carrying amount of
the Ally Financial equity interests given to the UST in exchange for the UST Ally Financial Loan. The gain was partially offset by Old GM s proportionate share of Ally Financial s loss from operations of $1.1 billion; (4) a loss
related to the extinguishment of the UST Ally Financial Loan of $2.0 billion when the UST exercised its option to convert outstanding amounts into shares of Ally Financial s Class B Common Membership Interests; partially offset by (5) a
gain on extinguishment of debt of $0.9 billion related to an amendment to Old GM s U.S. term loan; (6) interest expense of $0.8 billion on unsecured debt balances; (7) interest expense of $0.4 billion on the UST Loan Facility; and
(8) interest expense of $0.2 billion on GMIO and GMSA debt.      In the year ended December 31, 2008 results included:
(1) impairment charges of $7.1 billion related to Old GM s investment in Ally Financial s Common Membership Interests; (2) charges of $4.8 billion related to the Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements; (3) interest expense of
$2.5 billion primarily composed of interest expense of $1.6 billion on Old GM s unsecured bonds, interest expense of $0.4 billion on Old GM s Euro bonds and cross-currency swaps to hedge foreign exchange rate exposure and interest expense
of $0.1 billion on Old GM s secured revolving credit facility and U.S. term loan; (4) income tax expense of $1.8 billion related to valuation allowances against deferred tax assets in South Korea, the United Kingdom, Spain, and Australia;
(5) impairment charges of $1.0 billion related to Old GM s investment in Ally Financial s Preferred Membership Interests; (6) servicing fees, interest, and depreciation expenses of $1.0 billion on the portfolio of automotive
retail leases; partially offset by (7) global interest income of $0.6 billion driven primarily by investments in GMSA and GME.   
         96   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Liquidity and Capital Resources    
    Liquidity Overview        We believe that our current level of cash, marketable securities and availability under our secured revolving credit facility will be sufficient to meet our liquidity needs. However, we expect to have
substantial cash requirements going forward, which we plan to fund through available liquidity and cash flow from operations. Our known material future uses of cash include, among other possible demands: (1) pension and OPEB payments;
(2) continuing capital expenditures; (3) spending to implement long-term cost savings and restructuring plans such as restructuring our Opel/Vauxhall operations and potential capacity reduction programs; (4) reducing our overall debt
levels; (5) increase in accounts receivable due to the termination of a wholesale advance agreement with Ally Financial; and (6) certain South American income and indirect tax-related administrative and legal proceedings may require that
we deposit funds in escrow or make payments which may range from $0.8 billion to $1.0 billion.      Our liquidity plans are
subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, including those described in the section of this report entitled  Risk Factors,  some of which are outside our control. Macro-economic conditions could limit our ability to successfully
execute our business plans and, therefore, adversely affect our liquidity plans.        Recent Initiatives     
  We continue to monitor and evaluate opportunities to optimize our liquidity position including actively evaluating the possible sale of
non-core cost or equity method investments or other positions which could be significantly positive to our cash flow and/or earnings in the near-term.      In the year ended December 31, 2010 we made net investments of $5.4 billion in highly liquid marketable securities instruments with maturities exceeding 90 days. Previously, these funds would have
been invested in short-term instruments less than 90 days and classified as a component of Cash and cash equivalents. Investments in these longer-term securities will increase the interest we earn on these investments. We continue to monitor our
investment mix and may reallocate investments based on business requirements.      In June 2010 the German federal government
notified us of its decision not to provide loan guarantees to Opel/Vauxhall. As a result we have decided to fund the requirements of Opel/Vauxhall internally. Opel/Vauxhall subsequently withdrew all applications for government loan guarantees from
European governments. Through September 2010 we committed up to a total of Euro 3.3 billion (equivalent to $4.2 billion when committed) to fund Opel/Vauxhall s restructuring and ongoing cash requirements. This funding includes cumulative
lending commitments combined into a Euro 2.6 billion intercompany facility and equity commitments of Euro 700 million.   
  In October 2010 we completed our acquisition of AmeriCredit for cash of approximately $3.5 billion and changed the name from AmeriCredit
to GM Financial. We funded the transaction using cash on hand.      The repayment of debt remains a key strategic initiative. We
continue to evaluate potential debt repayments prior to maturity. Any such repayments may negatively affect our liquidity in the short-term. In 2010 GM Daewoo repaid in full and retired its $1.2 billion revolving credit facility. In October 2010 we
repaid in full the outstanding amount (together with accreted interest thereon) of the VEBA Notes of $2.8 billion. In July 2010 our Russian subsidiary repaid a loan facility of $150 million to cure a technical default. In March and April 2010 we
repaid the remaining amounts owed under the UST Loans of $5.7 billion and Canadian Loan of $1.3 billion.      As described more
fully below in the section entitled  Secured Revolving Credit Facility  in October 2010 we entered into a $5.0 billion secured revolving credit facility. While we do not believe the amounts available under the secured revolving credit
facility are needed to fund operating activities, the facility is expected to provide additional liquidity and financing flexibility.      In November and December 2010 we issued 100 million shares of our Series B Preferred Stock. We received net proceeds from the Series B Preferred Stock offering of $4.9 billion. Refer to the section
below entitled  Series B Preferred Stock Issuance  for additional detail.   
         97   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   In December 2010 we purchased 84 million shares of our Series A Preferred Stock,
which accrued cumulative dividends at a 9.0% annual rate, from the UST for a purchase price of $2.1 billion, which was equal to 102% of their aggregate liquidation amount pursuant to an agreement that we entered into with the UST in October
2010. We purchased the Series A Preferred Stock from the UST on the first dividend payment date for the Series A Preferred Stock after the completion of our common stock offering, December 15, 2010.   
  We made a voluntary contribution to our U.S. hourly and salaried defined benefit pension plans of $4.0 billion of cash in December 2010
and 61 million shares of our common stock valued at $2.2 billion for funding purposes in January 2011.      Under wholesale
financing arrangements, our U.S. dealers typically borrow money from financial institutions to fund their vehicle purchases from us. Effective January 2011 we terminated a wholesale advance agreement which provided for accelerated receipt of
payments made by Ally Financial on behalf of our U.S. dealers pursuant to Ally Financial s wholesale financing arrangements with dealers. Similar modifications were made in Canada. The wholesale advance agreements cover the period for which
vehicles are in transit between assembly plants and dealerships. We will no longer receive payments in advance of the date vehicles purchased by dealers are scheduled to be delivered, resulting in an average increase of approximately $2.0 billion to
our accounts receivable balance, depending on sales volumes and certain other factors, and the related costs under the arrangements were eliminated.      In January 2011 we withdrew our application for loans available under Section 136 of the EISA. This decision is consistent with our stated goal to minimize our outstanding debt.   
   Automotive    
    Available Liquidity        Available liquidity includes cash balances and marketable securities. At December 31, 2010 available liquidity was $26.6 billion, not including funds available under credit facilities of $5.9 billion
or in the Canadian HCT escrow account of $1.0 billion. The amount of available liquidity is subject to intra-month and seasonal fluctuations and includes balances held by various business units and subsidiaries worldwide that are needed to fund
their operations.      We manage our liquidity using U.S. cash investments, cash held at our international treasury centers and
available liquidity at consolidated overseas subsidiaries. The following table summarizes our liquidity (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Classified as Restricted cash and marketable securities. Refer to Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on the classification of
the escrow accounts. The remaining funds held in the UST escrow account were released in April 2010 following the repayment of the UST Loans and Canadian Loan.     
         98   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    GM       Total available liquidity increased by $9.1 billion in the year ended December 31, 2010 primarily due to positive cash flows from operating activities of $6.6 billion, investing activities less net
marketable securities acquisitions of $6.1 billion and a $5.3 billion increase in amounts available under credit facilities, which were partially offset by negative cash flows from financing activities of $9.3 billion.   
  Total available liquidity increased by $2.5 billion in the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 due to positive
cash flows from operating, financing and investing activities of $3.6 billion which were partially offset by a $1.1 billion reduction in our borrowing capacity on certain credit facilities. The decrease in credit facilities is primarily
attributable to the November 2009 extinguishment of the German Facility.       Old GM    
  Total available liquidity increased by $6.0 billion in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 due to positive
cash flows from financing activities partially offset by negative cash flow from operating and investing activities for a net cash flow of $4.8 billion as well as an increase of $1.1 billion in available borrowing capacity under credit
facilities. This was partially offset by repayments of secured lending facilities.        VEBA Assets     
  We transferred all of the remaining VEBA assets along with other consideration to the New VEBA within 10 business days after
December 31, 2009, in accordance with the terms of the 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement. The VEBA assets were not consolidated after the settlement was recorded at December 31, 2009 because we did not hold a controlling financial
interest in the entity that held such assets at that date. Under the terms of the 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement we had an obligation for VEBA Notes of $2.5 billion and accreted interest, at an implied interest rate of 9.0% per
annum. In October 2010 we repaid in full the outstanding amount (together with accreted interest thereon) of the VEBA Notes of $2.8 billion.      Under the terms of the 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement, we are released from UAW retiree healthcare claims incurred after December 31, 2009. All obligations of ours, the New Plan and any other
entity or benefit plan of ours for retiree medical benefits for the class and the covered group arising from any agreement between us and the UAW terminated at December 31, 2009. Our obligations to the New Plan and the New VEBA are limited to
the terms of the 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement.        Series B Preferred Stock Issuance     
  In November and December 2010 we issued 100 million shares of our Series B Preferred Stock. Each share of our Series B Preferred
Stock is convertible at the option of the holder at any time prior to December 1, 2013 into 1.2626 shares of our common stock, and each share of Series B Preferred Stock will mandatorily convert on December 1, 2013 into a number of shares
of our common stock ranging from 1.2626 to 1.5152 shares depending on the applicable market value of our common stock. The applicable market value of our common stock means the average of the closing prices per share of our common stock over the 40
consecutive trading day period ending on the third trading day immediately preceding the mandatory conversion date. The conversion ratios for optional and mandatory conversions are subject to anti-dilution, make-whole and other adjustments. We
received net proceeds from the issuances of $4.9 billion. We used these proceeds, along with $1.2 billion of cash on hand, to purchase our Series A Preferred Stock held by the UST in the amount of $2.1 billion and made a cash contribution to our
U.S. hourly and salary pension plans in an amount of $4.0 billion.   
         99   

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     UST Loans and Canadian Loan     
   UST Loans       Old GM received total proceeds of $19.8 billion ($15.8 billion subsequent to January 1, 2009, including $361 million under the U.S. government sponsored warranty program) from the UST under the UST
Loan Agreement entered into on December 31, 2008. In connection with the Chapter 11 Proceedings, Old GM obtained additional funding of $33.3 billion from the UST and EDC under its DIP Facility.   
  On July 10, 2009 we entered into the UST Credit Agreement and assumed debt of $7.1 billion which Old GM incurred under its DIP
Facility. Proceeds of the UST Credit Agreement of $16.4 billion were deposited in escrow to be distributed to us at our request upon certain conditions as outlined in the UST Credit Agreement. Immediately after entering into the UST Credit
Agreement, we made a partial repayment due to the termination of the U.S. government sponsored warranty program, reducing the UST Loans principal balance to $6.7 billion.      In November 2009 we signed an amendment to the UST Credit Agreement to provide for quarterly repayments of our UST Loans. Under this amendment, we agreed to make quarterly payments of $1.0 billion to the
UST. In December 2009 and March 2010 we made quarterly payments of $1.0 billion on the UST Loans. In April 2010, we used funds from our escrow account to repay in full the outstanding amount of the UST Loans of $4.7 billion. The UST Loans were
repaid prior to maturity. Amounts borrowed under the UST Credit Agreement may not be reborrowed.      At December 31, 2009
$12.5 billion of the proceeds of the UST Credit Agreement remained deposited in escrow. Any unused amounts in escrow on June 30, 2010 were required to be used to repay the UST Loans and Canadian Loan on a pro rata basis if the loans were not
paid in full. At December 31, 2009 the UST Loans and Canadian Loan were classified as short-term debt based on these terms.      Following the repayment of the UST Loans and the Canadian Loan, the remaining funds that were held in escrow became unrestricted and the availability of those funds is no longer subject to the conditions
set forth in the UST Credit Agreement.      The UST Loans accrued interest equal to the greater of the three month London
Interbank Offering Rates (LIBOR) rate or 2.0%, plus 5.0%, per annum, unless the UST determined that reasonable means did not exist to ascertain the LIBOR rate or that the LIBOR rate would not adequately reflect the UST s cost to maintain
the loan. In such a circumstance, the interest rate would have been the greatest of: (1) the prime rate plus 4%; (2) the federal funds rate plus 4.5%; or (3) the three month LIBOR rate (which will not be less than 2%) plus 5%. We were
required to prepay the UST Loans on a pro rata basis (among the UST Loans, VEBA Notes and Canadian Loan), in an amount equal to the amount of net cash proceeds received from certain asset dispositions, casualty events, extraordinary receipts and the
incurrence of certain debt. At December 31, 2009 the UST Loans accrued interest at 7.0%.      While we have repaid in full
our indebtedness under the UST Credit Agreement, the executive compensation and corporate governance provisions of Section 111 of the EESA, including the Interim Final Rule, will continue to apply to us for the period specified in the EESA and
the Interim Final Rule. Certain of the covenants in the UST Credit Agreement will continue to apply to us until the earlier to occur of (1) our ceasing to be a recipient of Exceptional Financial Assistance, as determined pursuant to the Interim
Final Rule or any successor or final rule, or (2) UST ceasing to own any direct or indirect equity interests in us, and impose obligations on us with respect to, among other things, certain expense policies, executive privileges and
compensation requirements.      The UST Credit Agreement includes a vitality commitment which requires us to use our commercially
reasonable best efforts to ensure that our manufacturing volume conducted in the United States is consistent with at least 90% of the projected manufacturing level (projected manufacturing level for this purpose being 1,934,000 units in 2011,
1,998,000 units in 2012, 2,156,000 units in 2013 and 2,260,000 units in 2014), absent a material adverse change in our business or operating environment which would make the commitment non-economic. In the event that such a material adverse change
occurs, the UST Credit Agreement provides that we will use our commercially reasonable best efforts to ensure that the volume of United States manufacturing is the minimum variance from the projected manufacturing level that is
  
         100

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
consistent with good business judgment and the intent of the commitment. This covenant survived our repayment of the UST Loans and remains in effect through December 31, 2014 unless the UST
receives total proceeds from debt repayments, dividends, interest, preferred stock redemptions and common stock sales equal to the total dollar amount of all UST invested capital.   
  UST invested capital totaled $49.5 billion, representing the cumulative amount of cash received by Old GM from the UST under the UST Loan
Agreement and the DIP Facility, excluding $361 million which the UST loaned to Old GM under the warranty program and which was repaid on July 10, 2009. This balance also did not include amounts advanced under the UST Ally Financial Loan as the
UST exercised its option to convert this loan into Ally Financial Preferred Membership Interests previously held by Old GM in May 2009. At December 31, 2010 the UST had received cumulative proceeds of $23.1 billion from debt repayments,
interest payments, Series A Preferred Stock dividends, sales of our common stock and Series A Preferred Stock redemption. The UST s invested capital less proceeds received totals $26.4 billion.   
  To the extent we fail to comply with any of the covenants in the UST Credit Agreement that continue to apply to us, the UST is entitled
to seek specific performance and the appointment of a court-ordered monitor acceptable to the UST (at our sole expense) to ensure compliance with those covenants.      Refer to Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for additional details on the UST Loans.       Canadian Loan       On July 10, 2009, through our wholly-owned subsidiary
GMCL, we entered into the Canadian Loan Agreement and assumed a CAD $1.5 billion (equivalent to $1.3 billion when entered into) term loan maturing on July 10, 2015. In November 2009 we signed an amendment to the Canadian Loan Agreement to
provide for quarterly repayments of the Canadian Loan. Under this amendment, we agreed to make quarterly repayments of $192 million to EDC. In December 2009 and March 2010 we made quarterly payments of $192 million and $194 million on the Canadian
Loan. In April 2010, GMCL repaid in full the outstanding amount of the Canadian Loan of $1.1 billion. The Canadian Loan was repaid prior to maturity. GMCL cannot reborrow under the Canadian Loan Agreement. The Canadian Loan accrued interest at the
greater of the three-month Canadian Dealer Offered Rate or 2.0%, plus 5.0% per annum. Accrued interest was payable quarterly. At December 31, 2009 the Canadian Loan accrued interest at 7.0%.   
  The Canadian Loan Agreement and related agreements include certain covenants requiring GMCL to meet certain annual Canadian production
volumes expressed as ratios to total overall production volumes in the U.S. and Canada and to overall production volumes in the NAFTA region. The targets cover vehicles and specified engine and transmission production in Canada. These agreements
also include covenants on annual GMCL capital expenditures and research and development expenses. In the event a material adverse change occurs that makes the fulfillment of these covenants non-economic (other than a material adverse change caused
by the actions or inactions of GMCL), the lender will consider adjustments to mitigate the business effect of the material adverse change. These covenants survive GMCL s repayment of the loans and certain of the covenants have effect through
December 31, 2016.      Refer to Note 19 to our consolidated financial statements for additional details on the Canadian
Loan.      The following table summarizes the total funding and funding commitments we repaid to the U.S. and Canadian governments
in the year ended December 31, 2010 (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Includes an increase due to a foreign currency exchange loss on the Canadian loan of $56 million.     
         101

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   The following table summarizes the total funding and funding commitments we repaid to
the U.S. and Canadian governments in the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Includes an increase due to a foreign currency exchange loss on the Canadian Loan of $133 million.     

(b)  
  Includes $361 million which the UST loaned to Old GM under the warranty program and which was assumed by GM and repaid on July 10, 2009.     
  The following table summarizes the total funding and funding commitments Old GM received from the U.S. and Canadian governments and the
additional notes Old GM issued in the period December 31, 2008 through July 9, 2009 (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Old GM did not receive any proceeds from the issuance of these promissory notes, which were issued as additional compensation to the UST and EDC.

(b)  
  Includes debt of $361 million, which the UST loaned to Old GM under the warranty program.     

(c)  
  UST invested capital totaled $49.5 billion, representing the cumulative amount of cash received by Old GM from the UST under the UST Loan Agreement and the DIP
Facility, excluding $361 million which the UST loaned to Old GM under the warranty program and which was repaid on July 10, 2009. This balance also does not include amounts advanced under the UST GMAC Loan as the UST exercised its option to
convert this loan into GMAC Preferred Membership Interests previously held by Old GM in May 2009.         

(d)  
  Includes approximately $2.4 billion from the EDC Loan Facility received in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 and funding commitments of CAD $4.5
billion (equivalent to $3.9 billion when entered into) that were immediately converted into our equity. This funding was received on July 15, 2009.     
         102

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   The following table summarizes the effect of the 363 Sale on the amounts owed to the UST
and the EDC under the UST Loan Agreement, the DIP Facility and the EDC Loan Facility (dollars in millions):       
      Secured Revolving Credit Facility     
  In October 2010 we entered into a five year, $5.0 billion secured revolving credit facility, which includes a letter of credit
sub-facility of up to $500 million. While we do not believe that we will draw on the secured revolving credit facility to fund operating activities, the facility is expected to provide additional liquidity and financing flexibility. Availability
under the secured revolving credit facility is subject to borrowing base restrictions.      Our obligations under the secured
revolving credit facility are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries and by substantially all of our domestic assets, including accounts receivable, inventory, property, plants, and equipment, real estate, intercompany loans,
intellectual property, trademarks and direct investments in Ally Financial. Obligations are also secured by the equity interests in certain of our direct domestic subsidiaries, as well as up to 65% of the voting equity interests in certain of our
direct foreign subsidiaries, in each case, subject to certain exceptions. The collateral securing the secured revolving credit facility does not include, among other assets, cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, as well as our investment in
GM Financial, our investment in New Delphi and our equity interests in our China JVs and in GM Daewoo. If the secured revolving credit facility is rated investment grade by two or more of the credit rating agencies (S P, Moody s and Fitch)
the requirement to provide collateral is eliminated.      Depending on certain terms and conditions in the secured revolving
credit facility, including compliance with the borrowing base requirements and certain other covenants, we will be able to add one or more  pari passu  first lien loan facilities. We will also have the ability to secure up to $2.0 billion of
certain non-loan obligations that we may designate from time to time as additional  pari passu  first lien obligations. Second-lien debt is generally allowed but second lien debt maturing prior to the final maturity date of the secured
revolving credit facility is limited to $3.0 billion in outstanding obligations.      Interest rates on obligations under the
secured revolving credit facility are based on prevailing per annum interest rates for Eurodollar loans or an alternative base rate plus an applicable margin, in each case, based upon the credit rating assigned to the debt evidenced by the secured
revolving credit facility.      The secured revolving credit facility contains representations, warranties and covenants customary
for facilities of this nature, including negative covenants restricting us and our subsidiary guarantors from incurring liens, consummating mergers or sales of assets and incurring secured indebtedness, and restricting us from making restricted
payments, in each case, subject to exceptions and limitations. The secured revolving credit facility contains minimum liquidity covenants, which require us to maintain at least $4.0 billion in consolidated global liquidity and at least $2.0 billion
in consolidated U.S. liquidity.      Events of default under the secured revolving credit facility include events of default
customary for facilities of this nature (including customary notice and/or grace periods, as applicable) such as:       

The failure to pay principal at the stated maturity, interest or any other amounts owed under the secured revolving credit agreement or related
documents;      
         103

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          

The failure of certain of our representations or warranties to be correct in all material respects;      

The failure to perform any term, covenant or agreement in the secured revolving credit agreement or related documents;

The existence of certain judgments that are not vacated, discharged, stayed or bonded;      

Certain cross defaults or cross accelerations with certain other debt;      

Certain defaults under ERISA;          

A change of control;          

Certain bankruptcy events; and          

The invalidation of the guarantees.         While the occurrence and continuance of an event of default will restrict our ability to borrow under the secured revolving credit facility, the lenders will not be permitted to exercise rights or
remedies against the collateral unless the obligations under the secured revolving credit facility have been accelerated.      We
incurred up-front fees, arrangement fees, and will incur ongoing commitment and other fees customary for facilities of this nature.        Credit Facilities        We make use of credit facilities as a mechanism
to provide additional flexibility in managing our global liquidity. These credit facilities are typically held at the subsidiary level and are geographically dispersed across all regions. The following tables summarize our committed and uncommitted
credit facilities at the dates indicated (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Consists of credit facilities available primarily at our foreign subsidiaries that are not individually significant.     
  At December 31, 2010 we had committed credit facilities of $6.1 billion, under which we had borrowed $667 million leaving
$5.5 billion available. The secured revolving credit facility comprised $5.0 billion of the amounts available under committed credit   
         104

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
facilities and other committed credit facilities had $475 million available. At December 31, 2010 we had uncommitted credit facilities of $490 million, under which we had borrowed $46
million leaving $444 million available. Uncommitted credit facilities include lines of credit which are available to us, but under which the lenders have no legal obligation to provide funding upon our request. We and our subsidiaries use credit
facilities to fund working capital needs, product programs, facilities development and other general corporate purposes.      In
2010 GM Daewoo repaid in full and retired its Korean Won 1.4 trillion (equivalent to $1.2 billion) revolving credit facility.   
  At December 31, 2009 we had committed credit facilities of $1.7 billion, under which we had borrowed $1.5 billion leaving $223
million available. Of these committed credit facilities GM Daewoo comprised $1.2 billion and other entities had $0.5 billion. At December 31, 2009 we had uncommitted credit facilities of $842 million, under which we had borrowed $447 million
leaving $395 million available.      At December 31, 2009 our largest credit facility was GM Daewoo s Korean Won 1.4
trillion (equivalent to $1.2 billion) revolving credit facility. The average interest rate on outstanding amounts under this facility at December 31, 2009 was 5.69%. At December 31, 2009 the facility was fully utilized with $1.2
billion outstanding.        Restricted Cash and Marketable Securities     
  Following the repayment of the UST Loans and the Canadian Loan in April 2010 as previously discussed, the remaining UST escrow funds of
$6.6 billion were released from escrow and became unrestricted as the availability of those funds was no longer subject to the conditions set forth in the UST Credit Agreement.   
  Pursuant to an agreement among GMCL, EDC and an escrow agent we had $1.0 billion remaining in an escrow account at December 31, 2010
to fund certain of GMCL s healthcare obligations pending the satisfaction of certain preconditions which have not yet been met.      In July 2009 we subscribed for additional common shares in GMCL and paid the subscription price in cash. As required under certain agreements among GMCL, EDC, and an escrow agent, $3.6 billion of the
subscription price was deposited into an escrow account to fund certain of GMCL s pension plans and HCT obligations pending completion of certain preconditions. In September 2009 GMCL contributed $3.0 billion to the Canadian hourly defined
benefit pension plan and $651 million to the Canadian salaried defined benefit pension plan, of which $2.7 billion was funded from the escrow account. In accordance with the terms of the escrow agreement, $903 million was released
from the escrow account to us in September 2009.        Cash Flow     
   Operating Activities        GM       In the year ended December 31, 2010 we had positive cash flows
from operating activities of $6.6 billion primarily due to: (1) Net income of $6.4 billion, which included non-cash charges of $7.1 billion resulting from depreciation, impairment and amortization of long-lived assets and finite-lived
intangible assets (including amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts); (2) dividends received of $0.7 billion primarily related to our China JVs; partially offset by (3) pension contributions and OPEB payments of $5.7 billion
primarily related to voluntary contributions to U.S. hourly and salary pension plans of $4.0 billion; (4) payments on our previously announced restructuring programs of $1.3 billion partially offset by net charges of $0.6 billion;
(5) dealer wind-down payments of $0.4 billion; and (6) unfavorable changes in working capital of $0.6 billion. The unfavorable changes in working capital were related to increases in accounts receivables, inventories and the completion of
a change to weekly payment terms to our suppliers, partially offset by an increase in accounts payable related to increased production volumes.   
         105

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   In the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 we had positive cash
flows from operating activities of $1.1 billion primarily due to: (1) favorable managed working capital of $5.7 billion primarily driven by the effect of increased sales and production on accounts payable and the timing of certain
supplier payments; (2) OPEB expense in excess of cash payments of $1.7 billion; (3) net income of $0.6 billion excluding depreciation, impairment and amortization of long-lived assets and finite-lived intangible assets (including
amortization of debt issuance costs and discounts); partially offset by (4) pension contributions of $4.3 billion primarily to our Canadian hourly and salaried defined benefit pension plans; (5) restructuring payments of
$1.2 billion; (6) interest payments of $0.6 billion and (7) sales allowance payments in excess of current period accruals for sales incentives of $0.5 billion driven by a reduction in dealer stock.   
   Old GM    
  In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Old GM had negative cash flows from operating activities of
$18.3 billion primarily due to: (1) net loss of $8.4 billion excluding Reorganization gains, net, and depreciation, impairment and amortization of long-lived assets and finite-lived intangible assets (including amortization of debt
issuance costs and discounts); (2) change in accrued liabilities of $6.8 billion; (3) unfavorable managed working capital of $5.6 billion; and (4) payments of $0.4 billion for reorganization costs associated with the
Chapter 11 Proceedings.      In the year ended December 31, 2008 Old GM had negative cash flows from operating activities of
$12.1 billion on a Loss from continuing operations of $31.1 billion. Operating cash flows were unfavorably affected by lower volumes and the resulting losses in North America and Western Europe, including the effect that lower production
volumes had on working capital balances, and postretirement benefit payments.       Investing Activities    
   GM       In
the year ended December 31, 2010 we had positive cash flows from investing activities of $0.7 billion primarily due to: (1) a net decrease in Restricted cash and marketable securities of $13.0 billion primarily related to withdrawals from
the UST Credit Agreement escrow account; (2) proceeds from the liquidation of operating leases of $0.3 billion; (3) proceeds received from the sale of Nexteer of $0.3 billion; (4) proceeds from the sale of property, plants and
equipment of $0.2 billion; partially offset by (5) net investments in marketable securities with maturities greater than 90 days of $5.4 billion; (6) capital expenditures of $4.2 billion; and (7) the acquisition of AmeriCredit for
$3.5 billion.      In the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 we had positive cash flows from investing
activities of $2.2 billion primarily due to: (1) a reduction in Restricted cash and marketable securities of $5.2 billion primarily related to withdrawals from the UST escrow account; (2) $0.6 billion related to the
liquidation of automotive retail leases; (3) an increase as a result of the consolidation of Saab of $0.2 billion; (4) tax distributions of $0.1 billion on Ally Financial common stock; partially offset by (5) net cash
payments of $2.0 billion related to the acquisition of Nexteer, four domestic facilities and Class A Membership Interests in New Delphi; and (6) capital expenditures of $1.9 billion.   
   Old GM    
  In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Old GM had negative cash flows from investing activities of
$21.1 billion primarily due to: (1) increase in Restricted cash and marketable securities of $18.0 billion driven primarily by the establishment of the UST and Canadian escrow accounts; (2) capital expenditures of
$3.5 billion; and (3) investment in Ally Financial of $0.9 billion; partially offset by (4) liquidation of operating leases of $1.3 billion.      In the year ended December 31, 2008 Old GM had negative cash flows from investing activities of $1.8 billion primarily related to: (1) capital expenditures of $7.5 billion; (2) an
increase in notes receivable of $0.4 billion; partially offset by (3) liquidations of operating leases of $3.6 billion; (4) net liquidations of marketable securities in an amount of $2.1 billion; (5) proceeds for the sale of real
estate, plants and equipment of $0.3 billion; and (6) proceeds from the sale of business units and equity investments of $0.2 billion.   
         106

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Financing Activities    
   GM       In
the year ended December 31, 2010 we had negative cash flows from financing activities of $9.3 billion primarily due to: (1) repayments on the UST Loans and Canadian Loan of $5.7 billion and $1.3 billion; (2) principal payments on the
VEBA Notes of $2.5 billion; (3) purchase of the Series A Preferred Stock shares from the UST of $2.1 billion; (4) repayment of GM Daewoo s revolving credit facility of $1.2 billion; (5) dividend payments on our Series A
Preferred Stock of $0.8 billion; (6) payments on the Receivables Program of $0.2 billion; (7) debt issuance fees of $0.2 billion primarily related to establishing our secured revolving credit facility; (8) net payments on other debt
of $0.2 billion; partially offset by (9) proceeds from the issuance of Series B Preferred Stock of $4.9 billion.      In the
period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 we had positive cash flows from financing activities of $0.3 billion primarily due to: (1) funding of $4.0 billion from the EDC which was converted to our equity; partially offset by
(2) payments on the UST Loans of $1.4 billion (including payments of $0.4 billion related to the warranty program); (3) net payments on the German Facility of $1.1 billion; (4) net payments on other debt of $0.4 billion; (5) a
net decrease in short-term debt of $0.4 billion; (6) payment on the Canadian Loan of $0.2 billion; (7) net payments on the program announced in March 2009 by the UST to provide financial assistance to automotive suppliers (Receivables
Program) of $0.1 billion; and (8) dividend payments on our Series A Preferred Stock of $0.1 billion.       Old GM
      In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Old GM had positive cash flows from financing activities of
$44.2 billion primarily due to: (1) proceeds from the DIP Facility of $33.3 billion; (2) proceeds from the UST Loan Facility and UST Ally Financial Loan of $16.6 billion; (3) proceeds from the EDC Loan Facility of
$2.4 billion; (4) proceeds from the German Facility of $1.0 billion; (5) proceeds from the issuance of long-term debt of $0.3 billion; (6) proceeds from the Receivables Program of $0.3 billion; partially offset by
(7) payments on other debt of $6.1 billion; (8) a net decrease in short-term debt of $2.4 billion; and (9) cash of $1.2 billion MLC retained as part of the 363 Sale.   
  In the year ended December 31, 2008 Old GM had positive cash flows from financing activities of $3.8 billion primarily related
to: (1) borrowings on debt facilities of $5.9 billion; (2) borrowing on the UST Loan Facility of $4.0 billion; partially offset by (3) a net decrease in short-term debt of $4.1 billion; (4) debt repayments of $1.7
billion; and (5) dividend payments on Old GM common stock of $0.3 billion.        Net Liquid Assets     
  Management believes the use of net liquid assets provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our liquidity. We believe net
liquid assets is useful in allowing for greater transparency of supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision making to assist in identifying resources available to meet cash requirements. Our calculation of
net liquid assets may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences between companies in the method of calculation. As a result, the use of net liquid assets has limitations and should not
be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, other measures such as Cash and cash equivalents and Debt. Due to these limitations, net liquid assets is used as a supplement to U.S. GAAP measures.   
         107

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   The following table summarizes net liquid assets balances (dollars in millions):
      
    Total liquid assets of $27.6 billion exceeded our debt balances by $23.0 billion at December 31, 2010.
The net liquid asset balance of $23.0 billion at December 31, 2010 represented an increase of $2.5 billion compared to a net liquid assets balance of $20.5 billion at December 31, 2009. The change was due to an increase of $5.4 billion in
Marketable securities and a decrease of $11.2 billion in Short-term and Long-term debt, partially offset by a reduction of $12.4 billion in the UST Credit Agreement and the HCT escrow balances and a reduction of $1.6 billion in Cash and cash
equivalents. The decrease in Short-term and Long-term debt primarily related to: (1) repayment in full of the UST Loans of $5.7 billion; (2) repayment in full of the VEBA Notes (together with accrued interest thereon)of $2.8 billion;
(3) repayment in full of the Canadian Loan of $1.3 billion; (4) repayment in full of the GM Daewoo revolving credit facility of $1.2 billion; and (5) repayment in full of the loans related to the Receivables Program of $0.2
billion.        Other Liquidity Issues         Receivables Program       In March 2009 the UST announced that it would provide
up to $5.0 billion in financial assistance to automotive suppliers by guaranteeing or purchasing certain of the receivables payable by Old GM and Chrysler LLC. The Receivables Program was to be funded by a loan facility of up to $2.5 billion
provided by the UST and by capital contributions from us up to $125 million. In connection with the 363 Sale, we assumed the obligation of the Receivables Program. At December 31, 2009 our equity contributions were $55 million and the UST had
outstanding loans of $150 million to the Receivables Program. In March 2010 we repaid these loans in full. The Receivables Program was terminated in accordance with its terms in April 2010. Upon termination, we shared residual capital of $25 million
in the program equally with the UST and paid a termination fee of $44 million.       Loan Commitments    
  We have extended loan commitments to affiliated companies and critical business partners. These commitments can be triggered under
certain conditions and expire in the years ranging from 2011 to 2014. At December 31, 2010 we had a total commitment of $600 million outstanding with no amounts loaned.       Status of Credit Ratings       We have been assigned initial ratings by four
independent credit rating agencies: Dominion Bond Rating Services (DBRS), Fitch Ratings (Fitch), Moody s Investor Service (Moody s), and Standard   Poor s (S P). The ratings indicate the agencies  assessment of a
company s creditworthiness such as its ability to timely pay principal and interest on debt securities, dividends on preferred securities and other contractual obligations. Lower credit ratings generally represent higher borrowing costs and
reduced access to capital markets for a company. The agencies consider a number of business and financial factors when determining ratings including, but not limited to, our competitive position, sustainability of our profits and cash flows, our
balance sheet and liquidity profile and our ability to meet obligations under adverse economic scenarios.   
         108

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   DBRS, Moody s, Fitch, and S P currently rate our corporate credit at
non-investment grade. The following table summarizes our credit ratings at February 15, 2011:       

Rating Agency    
      
   Corporate   
      
   Secured Revolving     Credit Facility   
      
   Senior     Unsecured   
      
   Outlook    
 
    DBRS    
      
  BB  
      
  BBB (low)  
      
  N/A  
      
  Stable   
 
    Fitch   
      
  BB-  
      
  BB+  
      
  N/A  
      
  Stable   
 
    Moody s   
      
  Ba2  
      
  Baa3  
      
  N/A  
      
  Stable   
 
    S P   
      
  BB-  
      
  BB+  
      
  N/A  
      
  Positive       Rating actions
taken by each of the credit rating agencies from October 6, 2010 through February 15, 2011 were as follows:      DBRS:
October 2010   Assigned an initial Corporate rating of BB and a rating of BBB (low) to our secured revolving credit facility.      Fitch: October 2010   Assigned an initial Corporate rating of BB- (affirmed in November 2010) and a rating of BB+ to our secured revolving credit facility.   
  Moody s: October 2010   Assigned an initial Corporate rating of Ba2 and assigned a rating of Baa3 to our secured revolving
credit facility.      S P: October 2010   Assigned an initial Corporate rating of BB- and a rating of BB+ to our secured
revolving credit facility. February 2011   Outlook revised to positive from stable.      The initial ratings assigned by the
agencies are an important step towards our objective to attain an investment grade credit rating over the long-term by maintaining a strong balance sheet and reducing financial leverage.   
   Series A Preferred Stock       Beginning December 31, 2014 we will be permitted to redeem, in whole or in part, the shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding, at a redemption price per share equal to $25.00 per share plus any
accrued and unpaid dividends, subject to limited exceptions. As a practical matter, our ability to redeem any portion of this $6.9 billion face amount in Series A Preferred Stock will depend upon our having sufficient liquidity.   
   Automotive Financing    
    Liquidity Overview        GM Financial s primary sources of cash are finance charge income, servicing fees, distributions from securitization trusts, borrowings under credit facilities, transfers of finance receivables to
trusts in securitization transactions and collections, recoveries on finance receivables and net proceeds from senior notes and convertible senior notes transactions. GM Financial s primary uses of cash are purchases of finance receivables,
repayment of credit facilities, securitization notes payable and other indebtedness, funding credit enhancement requirements for securitization transactions and credit facilities, repurchases of unsecured debt and operating expenses.   
  GM Financial used cash of $0.9 billion for the purchase of finance receivables in the three months ended December 31, 2010.
Generally, these purchases are funded initially utilizing cash and borrowings under credit facilities and subsequently funded in securitization transactions.   
         109

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     Available Liquidity     
  The following table summarizes GM Financial s available liquidity (dollars in millions):   
   
      Credit Facilities        In the normal course of business, in addition to using available cash, GM Financial pledges receivables to and borrows under credit facilities to fund operations and repays these borrowings as appropriate
under GM Financial s cash management strategy. The following table summarizes credit facilities at December 31, 2010 (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  In February 2011 GM Financial extended the maturity date of the syndicated warehouse facility to May 2012 and increased the borrowing capacity to $2.0 billion from $1.3
billion.         

(b)  
  The revolving period under this facility has ended and the outstanding debt balance will be repaid over time based on the amortization of the receivables pledged until
October 2016 when any remaining amount outstanding will be due and payable.         

(c)  
  The revolving period under this facility has ended and the outstanding debt balance under the bank funding facilities are secured by asset-backed securities of $65
million.        GM Financial is required to hold certain funds in restricted cash accounts to provide additional
collateral for borrowings under the credit facilities and securitization notes payable. GM Financial s funding agreements contain various covenants requiring minimum financial ratios, asset quality and portfolio performance ratios (portfolio
net loss and delinquency ratios, and pool level cumulative net loss ratios) as well as limits on deferment levels. Failure to meet any of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. If an event of default occurs under
these agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under these agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests against collateral pledged under these agreements or, with respect to the syndicated
warehouse facility, restrict GM Financial s ability to obtain additional borrowings.   
         110

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Non-Cash Charges (Gains)    
  The following table summarizes significant non-cash charges (gains) (dollars in millions):   

(a)  
  Amounts exclude changes related to income tax expense (benefit) in jurisdictions with a full valuation allowance throughout the period. Refer to Note 23 to the
consolidated financial statements.         Defined Benefit Pension Plan Contributions    
  Plans covering eligible U.S. salaried employees hired prior to January 2001 and hourly employees hired prior to October 15, 2007
generally provide benefits of stated amounts for each year of service as well as supplemental benefits for employees who retire with 30 years of service before normal retirement age. Salaried and hourly employees hired after these dates participate
in defined contribution or cash balance plans. Our and Old GM s policy for qualified defined benefit pension plans is to contribute annually not less than the minimum required by applicable law and regulation, or to directly pay benefit
payments where appropriate. At December 31, 2010 all legal funding requirements had been met.   
         111

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   The following table summarizes contributions made to the defined benefit pension plans
or direct payments (dollars in millions):       
    We made a voluntary contribution to our U.S. hourly and salaried defined benefit pension plans of cash of
$4.0 billion in December 2010 and 61 million shares of our common stock valued at $2.2 billion for funding purposes in January 2011. The contributed shares qualify as a plan asset for funding purposes immediately, and will qualify as a plan
asset for accounting purposes when certain restrictions are removed, which is expected in 2011.      The following table
summarizes the underfunded status of pension plans (dollars in billions):       
    On a U.S. GAAP basis, the U.S. pension plans were underfunded by $12.4 billion and $17.1 billion at
December 31, 2010 and 2009. The change in funded status was primarily attributable to the actual return on plan assets of $11.6 billion and contributions of $4.1 billion, partially offset by actuarial losses primarily attributable to
discount rate decreases of $5.3 billion and service and interest costs of $5.7 billion.      On a U.S. GAAP basis, the
non-U.S. pension plans were underfunded by $9.8 billion and $10.3 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The change in funded status was primarily attributable to: (1) actual return on plan assets of $1.2 billion; (2) employer
contributions and benefit payments of $0.8 billion; (3) net favorable foreign currency translations of $0.3 billion; partially offset by (4) service and interest costs of $1.6 billion; and (5) actuarial losses and other of $0.2
billion.      Hourly and salaried OPEB plans provide postretirement life insurance to most U.S. retirees and eligible dependents
and postretirement health coverage to some U.S. retirees and eligible dependents. Certain of the non-U.S. subsidiaries have postretirement benefit plans, although most participants are covered by government sponsored or administered programs.
     The following table summarizes the underfunded status of OPEB plans (dollars in billions):   

112

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   The following table summarizes net benefit payments expected to be paid in the future,
which include assumptions related to estimated future employee service, but does not reflect the effect of the 2009 CAW Agreement which provides for our independent HCT (dollars in millions):   

(a)  
  Benefits for most U.S. pension plans and certain non-U.S. pension plans are paid out of plan assets rather than our cash and cash equivalents.     

(b)  
  Benefit payments presented in this table reflect the effect of the implementation of the 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement, which releases us from UAW retiree
healthcare claims incurred after December 31, 2009.         Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements    
  We do not currently utilize off balance sheet securitization arrangements. All trade or financing receivables and related obligations
subject to securitization programs are recorded on our consolidated balance sheets at December 31, 2010 and 2009.       Guarantees Provided
to Third Parties       We have provided guarantees related to the residual value of operating leases, certain suppliers 
commitments, certain product-related claims and commercial loans made by Ally Financial and outstanding with certain third parties excluding vehicle repurchase obligations, residual support and risk sharing related to Ally Financial. The maximum
potential obligation under these commitments was $581 million at December 31, 2010. The maximum potential obligation under these commitments was $1.0 billion at December 31, 2009.   
  In May 2009 Old GM and Ally Financial agreed to expand repurchase obligations for Ally Financial financed inventory at certain dealers in
Europe, Asia, Brazil and Mexico. In November 2008 Old GM and Ally Financial agreed to expand repurchase obligations for Ally Financial financed inventory at certain dealers in the United States and Canada. Our current agreement with Ally Financial
requires the repurchase of Ally Financial financed inventory invoiced to dealers after September 1, 2008, with limited exclusions, in the event of a qualifying voluntary or involuntary termination of the dealer s sales and service
agreement. Repurchase obligations exclude vehicles which are damaged, have excessive mileage or have been altered. The repurchase obligation ended in August 2010 for vehicles invoiced through August 2009, ends in August 2011 for vehicles invoiced
through August 2010 and ends in August 2012 for vehicles invoiced through August 2011.      The maximum potential amount of future
payments required to be made to Ally Financial under this guarantee would be based on the repurchase value of total eligible vehicles financed by Ally Financial in dealer stock and is estimated to be $18.8 billion at December 31, 2010. This
amount was estimated to be $14.2 billion at December 31, 2009. If vehicles are required to be repurchased under this arrangement, the total exposure would be reduced to the extent vehicles are able to be resold to another dealer or at
auction. The fair value of the guarantee was $21 million and $46 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009 which considers the likelihood of dealers terminating and estimated the loss exposure for the ultimate disposition of vehicles.
     Refer to Notes 22 and 32 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on guarantees we have provided.
  
         113

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
    Contractual Obligations and Other Long-Term Liabilities    
  We have the following minimum commitments under contractual obligations, including purchase obligations. A purchase obligation is defined
as an agreement to purchase goods or services that is enforceable and legally binding on us and that specifies all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the
approximate timing of the transaction. Other long-term liabilities are defined as long-term liabilities that are recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. Based on this definition, the following table includes only those contracts which include
fixed or minimum obligations. The majority of our purchases are not included in the table as they are made under purchase orders which are requirements based and accordingly do not specify minimum quantities.   
  The following table summarizes aggregated information about our outstanding contractual obligations and other long-term liabilities at
December 31, 2010 (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Projected future payments on lines of credit were based on amounts drawn at December 31, 2010.     

(b)  
  GM Financial credit facilities and securitization notes payable have been classified based on expected payoff date. Senior notes and convertible senior notes principal
amounts have been classified based on maturity date.         

(c)  
  Amounts include Automotive interest payments based on contractual terms and current interest rates on our debt and capital lease obligations. Automotive interest
payments based on variable interest rates were determined using the current interest rate in effect at December 31, 2010.         

(d)  
  GM Financial interest payments are calculated based on LIBOR plus the respective credit spreads and specified fees associated with the medium-term note facility and the
syndicated warehouse facility, the coupon rate for the senior notes and convertible senior notes and a fixed rate of interest for securitization notes payable. GM Financial interest payments on the floating rate tranches of the securitization notes
payable were converted to a fixed rate based on the floating rate plus any expected hedge payments.         

(e)  
  Amounts include other postretirement benefit payments under the current U.S. contractual labor agreements for 2011 and Canada labor agreements through 2012 and 2013.
Amounts do not include pension funding obligations, which are discussed below under the caption  Required Pension Funding Obligations.          

(f)  
  Amounts include operating lease obligations for both Automotive and Automotive Financing. Automotive is included net of sublease income.     
         114

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          

(g)  
  Future payments in local currency amounts were translated into U.S. Dollars using the balance sheet spot rate at December 31, 2010.     

(h)  
  Amounts do not include future cash payments for long-term purchase obligations and other accrued expenditures (unless specifically listed in the table above) which were
recorded in Accounts payable or Accrued liabilities at December 31, 2010.         

(i)  
  Amounts exclude the future annual contingent obligations of Euro 265 million in the years 2011 to 2014 related to our Opel/Vauxhall restructuring plan.

(j)  
  Amount includes all expected future payments for both current and expected future service at December 31, 2010 for other postretirement benefit obligations for
salaried employees and hourly other postretirement benefit obligations extending beyond the current North American union contract agreements. Amounts do not include pension funding obligations, which are discussed below under the caption
 Required Pension Funding Obligations.         The table above does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of
$5.2 billion due to the high degree of uncertainty regarding the future cash outflows associated with these amounts. We expect to settle a contested income tax matter in GMSA for cash of $0.2 billion in 2011.   
  The table above also does not reflect certain contingent loan and funding commitments that we have made with suppliers, other third
parties and certain joint ventures. At December 31, 2010 we had commitments of $0.6 billion under these arrangements that were undrawn.        Required Pension Funding Obligations        We do not have any required
contributions due to our U.S. qualified plans in 2011. The next pension funding valuation to be prepared based on the requirements of the PPA of 2006 will be as of October 1, 2010. Based on the PPA, we have the option to select a funding interest
rate for the valuation based on either the Full Yield Curve method or the 3-Segment method, both of which are considered to be acceptable methods. The PPA also provides the flexibility of selecting a 3-Segment rate up to the preceding five months
from the valuation date of October 1, 2010, i.e., the 3-Segment rate at May 31, 2010. Therefore, for a hypothetical funding valuation at December 31, 2010 we have assumed the 3-Segment rate at May 31, 2010 as the base for funding
interest rate that we could use for the actual funding valuation. Since this hypothetical election does not limit us to only using the 3-Segment rate beyond 2010, we have assumed that we retain the flexibility of selecting a funding interest rate
based on either the Full Yield Curve method or the 3-Segment method. A hypothetical funding valuation at December 31, 2010 using the 3-Segment rate at May 31, 2010 for plan year beginning October 1, 2010 funding valuation, and
assuming the December 31, 2010 Full Yield Curve funding interest rate for all future funding valuations projects contributions of $2.3 billion, and $1.2 billion in 2015 and 2016.   
  Alternatively, a hypothetical funding valuation at December 31, 2010 using the 3-Segment rate at May 31, 2010 for plan year
beginning October 1, 2010 funding valuation and assuming the December 31, 2010 3-Segment interest rate for all future valuation projects contributions of $0.3 billion in 2016.   
  In both cases, we have assumed that the pension plans earn the expected return of 8.0% in the future and no changes in funding rates.
U.S. pension funding interest rate and return on assets rate sensitivity are shown below, assuming the 3-segment rate at May 31, 2010 for plan year beginning on October 1, 2010 funding valuation and the full yield curve interest rate for
all future valuations (in billions):       
 
         115

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   In January 2011 we completed the previously announced voluntary contribution of
61 million shares of our common stock to our U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans, valued at $2.2 billion for funding purposes. This was a voluntary contribution and the amount is reflected in the plan assets used to project the future
required contributions above since the contributed shares qualify as a plan asset for funding purposes immediately. The contributed shares will qualify as a plan asset for accounting purposes when certain transfer restrictions are removed, which is
expected in 2011.      The hypothetical valuations do not consider the potential election of relief provisions that are available
to us under the Pension Relief Act of 2010 (PRA) for 2010 and 2011 plan year valuations.      We expect to contribute $95 million
to our U.S. non-qualified plans and $740 million to our non-U.S. pension plans in 2011.       Fair Value Measurements    
    Automotive        At December 31, 2010 assets and liabilities classified in Level 3 were not significant. Prior to the three months ended December 31, 2010 significant assets and liabilities classified in Level
3, with the related Level 3 inputs, were as follows:       

Foreign currency derivatives   Level 3 inputs used to determine the fair value of foreign currency derivative liabilities include the
appropriate credit spread to measure our nonperformance risk. Given our nonperformance risk was not observable through a liquid credit default swap market we based this measurement on an analysis of comparable industrial companies to determine the
appropriate credit spread which would be applied to us and Old GM by market participants. In the three months ended December 31, 2010 we incorporated our published credit agency ratings into our credit rating conclusions. In the three months
ended December 31, 2010 we determined that our nonperformance risk no longer represents a significant input in the determination of the fair value of our foreign currency derivative liabilities. We have transferred these liabilities to Level 2.
        Refer to Notes 21 and 24 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding fair
value measurements.       Level 3 Assets and Liabilities    
  At December 31, 2010 we used Level 3 inputs to measure net liabilities of $14 million (or less than 0.1%) of our total liabilities.
These net liabilities included $10 million (or less than 0.1%) of the total assets, and $24 million (or 16.4%) of the total liabilities that we measured at fair value.      In the year ended December 31, 2010 assets and liabilities measured using Level 3 inputs decreased $658 million from a net liability of $672 million to a net liability of $14 million. This reduction
was primarily due to unrealized and realized gains on derivatives, the settlement of derivative positions according to their terms and maturities and the reclassification of outstanding derivative contracts from Level 3 to Level 2 during the three
months ended December 31, 2010.      At December 31, 2010 our nonperformance risk remains unobservable through a liquid
credit default swap market. During the three months ended December 31, 2010 we determined that our nonperformance risk no longer represents significant input in the determination of the fair value of our derivatives. The effect of our
nonperformance risk in the valuation has been reduced due to the reduction in the remaining duration and magnitude of these net derivative liability positions. In October 2010 we transferred foreign currency derivatives with a fair market value of
$183 million from Level 3 to Level 2.      At December 31, 2009 we used Level 3 inputs to measure net liabilities of $672
million (or 0.6%) of our total liabilities. These net liabilities included $33 million (or 0.1%) of the total assets, and $705 million (or 98.7%) of the total liabilities (all of which were derivative liabilities) that we measured at fair value. At
December 31, 2009 we also included a nonperformance risk adjustment of $47 million in the fair value measurement of these derivatives which reflects a discount of 6.5% to the fair value before considering our credit risk.   
         116

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   For periods presented from June 1, 2009 through September 30, 2009
nonperformance risk for us and Old GM was not observable through a liquid credit default swap market as a result of the Chapter 11 Proceedings and lack of traded instruments for us after the 363 Sale. Foreign currency derivatives with a fair market
value of $1.6 billion were transferred from Level 2 to Level 3 in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009.   
  In the three months ended March 31, 2009 Old GM determined the credit profile of certain foreign subsidiaries was equivalent to Old
GM s nonperformance risk which was observable through the credit default swap market and bond market based on prices for recent trades. Foreign currency derivatives with a fair value of $2.1 billion were transferred from Level 3 into Level 2.
     Realized gains and losses related to assets and liabilities measured using Level 3 inputs did not have a material effect on
operations, liquidity or capital resources in the year ended December 31, 2010 and the periods July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009, January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 and the year ended December 31, 2008.
       Automotive Financing        At December 31, 2010 significant assets and liabilities classified in Level 3, with the related Level 3 inputs, are as follows:   

Interest rate swaps   Level 3 inputs are used to determine the fair value of GM Financial s interest rate swaps because they are not
exchange traded but instead traded in over-the-counter markets where quoted market prices are not readily available. The fair value of derivatives is derived using models that primarily use market observable inputs, such as interest rate yield
curves and credit curves. The effects of GM Financial s and the counterparties  non-performance risk to the derivative trades is considered when measuring the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities.      
  Refer to Notes 21 and 24 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding fair value measurements.
      Dividends    
  The declaration of any dividend on our common stock is a matter to be acted upon by our Board of Directors in its sole discretion. Since
our formation, we have not paid any dividends on our common stock. We have no current plans to pay any dividends on our common stock. Our payment of dividends on our common stock in the future, if any, will be determined by our Board of Directors in
its sole discretion out of funds legally available for that purpose and will depend on business conditions, our financial condition, earnings, liquidity and capital requirements, the covenants in our debt instruments, and other factors.   
  So long as any share of our Series A or B Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution may be declared or paid on our
common stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends have been paid on our Series A and B Preferred Stock, subject to exceptions, such as dividends on our common stock payable solely in shares of our common stock. Our secured revolving credit
facility contains certain restrictions on our ability to pay dividends, subject to exceptions, such as dividends payable solely in shares of our common stock.      So long as any share of our Series A Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution may be declared or paid on our Series B Preferred Stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends have
been paid on our Series A Preferred Stock, subject to exceptions, such as dividends on our Series B Preferred Stock solely in shares of our common stock.      The following tables summarize dividends paid on our Series A and B Preferred Stock (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Does not include the $677 million charge related to the purchase of 84 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the UST.     

(b)  
  At December 31, 2010 cumulative unpaid dividends on our Series B Preferred Stock was $25 million.     
         117

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          

(a)  
  Prior to December 31, 2009 the 260 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock issued to the New VEBA were not considered outstanding for accounting purposes
due to the terms of the 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement. As a result, $105 million of the $146 million of dividends paid in the three months ended September 30, 2009 and $147 million of the $203 million dividends paid in the three months
ended December 31, 2009 were recorded as a reduction of Postretirement benefits other than pensions.        Our
payment of dividends in the future, if any, will be determined by our Board of Directors and will be paid out of funds legally available for that purpose.       Critical Accounting Estimates       The consolidated financial statements are
prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP, which require the use of estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements, and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses in the periods presented. We believe that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and resulting balances are reasonable; however, due to inherent uncertainties in making
estimates actual results could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to these balances in future periods. We have discussed the development, selection and disclosures of our critical accounting estimates with the Audit Committee
of the Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosures relating to these estimates.      The critical
accounting estimates that affect the consolidated financial statements and that use judgments and assumptions are listed below. In addition, the likelihood that materially different amounts could be reported under varied conditions and assumptions
is discussed.        Fresh-Start Reporting        The Bankruptcy Court did not determine a reorganization value in connection with the 363 Sale. Reorganization value is defined as the value of our assets without liabilities. In order to apply fresh-start
reporting, ASC 852 requires that total postpetition liabilities and allowed claims be in excess of reorganization value and prepetition stockholders receive less than 50.0% of our common stock. Based on our estimated reorganization value, we
determined that on July 10, 2009 both the criteria of ASC 852 were met and, as a result, we applied fresh-start reporting.   
  Our reorganization value was determined using the sum of:   

Our discounted forecast of expected future cash flows from our business subsequent to the 363 Sale, discounted at rates reflecting perceived
business and financial risks;          

The fair value of operating liabilities;          

The fair value of our non-operating assets, primarily our investments in nonconsolidated affiliates and cost method investments; and

The amount of cash we maintained at July 10, 2009 that we determined to be in excess of the amount necessary to conduct our normal business
activities.         The sum of the first, third and fourth bullet items equals our Enterprise value.   
         118

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   Our discounted forecast of expected future cash flows included:   

Forecasted cash flows for the six months ended December 31, 2009 and the years ending December 31, 2010 through 2014, for each of Old
GM s former segments including GMNA, GME, GM Latin America/Africa/Middle East (GMLAAM) and GM Asia Pacific (GMAP) and for certain subsidiaries that incorporated:      

Industry SAAR of vehicle sales and our related market share as follows:      

Projected product mix, which incorporates the 2010 introductions of the Chevrolet Volt, Chevrolet/Holden Cruze, Cadillac CTS Coupe,
Opel/Vauxhall Meriva and Opel/Vauxhall Astra Station Wagon;          

Projected changes in our cost structure due to restructuring initiatives that encompass reduction of hourly and salaried employment levels by
approximately 18,000;          

The terms of the 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement, which released us from UAW retiree healthcare claims incurred after December 31,
2009;          

Anticipated changes in global market conditions.      

A terminal value, which was determined using a growth model that applied long-term growth rates ranging from 0.5% to 6.0% and a weighted-average
long-term growth rate of 2.6% to our projected cash flows beyond 2014. The long-term growth rates were based on our internal projections as well as industry growth prospects; and      

Discount rates that considered various factors including bond yields, risk premiums, and tax rates to determine a weighted-average cost of
capital (WACC), which measures a company s cost of debt and equity weighted by the percentage of debt and equity in a company s target capital structure. We used discount rates ranging from 16.5% to 23.5% and a weighted-average rate of
22.8%.         To estimate the value of our investment in nonconsolidated affiliates we used multiple valuation
techniques, but we primarily used discounted cash flow analysis. Our excess cash of $33.8 billion, including Restricted cash and marketable securities of $21.2 billion, represents cash in excess of the amount necessary to conduct our
ongoing day-to-day business activities and to keep them running as a going concern. Refer to Note 15 to our consolidated financial statements for additional discussion of Restricted cash and marketable securities.   
         119

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   Our estimate of reorganization value assumes the achievement of the future financial
results contemplated in our forecasted cash flows, and there can be no assurance that we will realize that value. The estimates and assumptions used are subject to significant uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and there is no
assurance that anticipated financial results will be achieved.      Assumptions used in our discounted cash flow analysis that
have the most significant effect on our estimated reorganization value include:       

Our estimated WACC;          

Our estimated long-term growth rates; and          

Our estimate of industry sales and our market share in each of Old GM s former segments.      
  The following table reconciles our enterprise value to our estimated reorganization value and the estimated fair value of our Equity (in
millions except per share amounts):       

(a)  
  Operating liabilities are our total liabilities excluding the liabilities listed in the reconciliation above of our enterprise value to the fair value of our common
equity.         

(b)  
  Reorganization value does not include assets with a carrying amount of $1.8 billion and a fair value of $2.0 billion at July 9, 2009 that MLC retained.

(c)  
  The application of fresh-start reporting resulted in the recognition of goodwill. When applying fresh-start reporting, certain accounts, primarily employee benefit and
income tax related, were recorded at amounts determined under specific U.S. GAAP rather than at fair value and the difference between the U.S. GAAP and fair value amounts gives rise to goodwill, which is a residual. Further, we recorded valuation
allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, which under ASC 852 also resulted in goodwill. Our employee benefit related obligations were recorded in accordance with ASC 712,  Compensation   Nonretirement Postemployment
Benefits  (ASC 712) and ASC 715 and deferred income taxes were recorded in accordance with ASC 740.     
         120

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          

(d)  
  The 260 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock, 263 million shares of our common stock, and warrant to acquire 46 million shares of our common stock
issued to the New VEBA on July 10, 2009 were not considered outstanding until the UAW retiree medical plan was settled on December 31, 2009. The fair value of these instruments was included in the liability recognized at July 10, 2009
for this plan. The common shares issued to the New VEBA are excluded from common shares outstanding at July 10, 2009. Refer to Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of the termination of our UAW hourly retiree
medical plan and Mitigation Plan and the resulting payment terms to the New VEBA.        The following table
summarizes the approximate effects that a change in the WACC and long-term growth rate assumptions would have had on our determination of the fair value of our common equity at July 10, 2009 keeping all other assumptions constant (dollars in
billions except per share amounts):       
    In order to estimate
these effects, we adjusted the WACC and long-term growth rate assumptions for each of Old GM s former segments and for certain subsidiaries. The aggregated effect of these assumption changes on each of Old GM s former segments and for
certain subsidiaries does not necessarily correspond to assumption changes made at a consolidated level.        Pensions
       The defined benefit pension plans are accounted for on an actuarial basis, which requires the selection of various
assumptions, including an expected rate of return on plan assets and a discount rate. Due to significant events, including those discussed in Note 20 to our consolidated financial statements, certain of the pension plans were remeasured at various
dates in the year ended December 31, 2010, the periods July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009, January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 and in the year ended December 31, 2008.   
  Net pension expense is calculated based on the expected return on plan assets and not the actual return on plan assets. The expected
return on U.S. plan assets that is included in pension expense is determined from periodic studies, which include a review of asset allocation strategies, anticipated future long-term performance of individual asset classes, risks using standard
deviations and correlations of returns among the asset classes that comprise the plans  asset mix. While the studies give appropriate consideration to recent plan performance and historical returns, the assumptions are primarily long-term,
prospective rates of return. In December 2010 an analysis of the investment policy was completed for the U.S. pension plans which reduced the expected return on assets to 8.0% from 8.5% at December 31, 2009. The decrease in expected return on
assets is primarily related to lower bond yields and updated return assumptions for equities and equity-like asset classes. Differences between the expected return on plan assets and the actual return on plan assets are recorded in Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) as an actuarial gain or loss, and subject to possible amortization into net pension expense over future periods. A market-related value of plan assets, which averages gains and losses over a period of years, is utilized
in the determination of future pension expense. For substantially all pension plans, market-related value is defined as an amount that initially recognizes 60.0% of the difference between the actual fair value of assets and the expected calculated
value, and 10.0% of that difference over each of the next four years. The market-related value of assets at December 31, 2010 used to determine U.S. and non-U.S. net periodic pension income for the year ending December 31, 2011 was
$4.1 billion and $0.3 billion lower than the actual fair value of plan assets at December 31, 2010.      Another key
assumption in determining net pension expense is the assumed discount rate to be used to discount plan obligations. We estimate this rate for U.S. plans using a cash flow matching approach, which uses projected cash flows matched to spot rates along
  
         121

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
a high quality corporate yield curve to determine the present value of cash flows to calculate a single equivalent discount rate. Old GM used an iterative process to determine the discount rate
based on a hypothetical investment in a portfolio of high-quality bonds rated AA or higher by a recognized rating agency and a hypothetical reinvestment of the proceeds of such bonds upon maturity using forward rates derived from a yield curve until
the U.S. pension obligation was defeased. This reinvestment component was incorporated into the methodology because it was not feasible, in light of the magnitude and time horizon over which U.S. pension obligations extend, to accomplish
full defeasance through direct cash flows from an actual set of bonds selected at any given measurement date.      The benefit
obligation for pension plans in Canada, the United Kingdom and Germany comprise 92% of the non-U.S. pension benefit obligation at December 31, 2010. The discount rates for Canadian plans are determined using a cash flow matching approach,
similar to the U.S. approach. The discount rates for plans in the United Kingdom and Germany use a curve derived from high quality corporate bonds with maturities consistent with the plans  underlying duration of expected benefit payments.
     The following table summarizes rates used to determine net pension expense:   
   
    Significant
differences in actual experience or significant changes in assumptions may materially affect the pension obligations. The effect of actual results differing from assumptions and the changing of assumptions are included in unamortized net actuarial
gains and losses that are subject to amortization to expense over future periods.      The following table summarizes the
unamortized actuarial gain (before tax) on pension plans (dollars in billions):       
    The following table
summarizes the actual and expected return on pension plan assets (dollars in billions):       
 
         122

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   The following table illustrates the sensitivity to a change in certain assumptions for
the pension plans, holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions):       
    The U.S. pension
plans generally provide covered U.S. hourly employees hired prior to October 15, 2007 with pension benefits of negotiated, flat dollar amounts for each year of credited service earned by an individual employee. Early retirement supplements are
also provided to those who retire prior to age 62. Hourly employees hired after October 15, 2007 participate in a cash balance pension plan. Formulas providing for such stated amounts are contained in the applicable labor contract. Pension
expense and the pension obligations do not consider any future benefit increases or decreases that may occur beyond current labor contracts. The usual cycle for negotiating new labor contracts is every four years. We do not have a past practice of
maintaining a consistent level of benefit increases or decreases from one contract to the next.      The following data
illustrates the sensitivity of changes in pension expense and pension obligation based on the last remeasurement of the U.S hourly pension plan at December 31, 2010, as a result of changes in future benefit units for U.S. hourly employees,
effective after the expiration of the current contract (dollars in millions):       
    We utilize a variety
of pricing sources to estimate the fair value of our pension assets, including: independent pricing vendors, dealer or counterparty supplied valuations, third party appraisals, appraisals prepared by investment managers, or investment sponsor or
third party administrator supplied net asset value (or its equivalent) per share (NAV) used as a practical expedient.      A
significant portion of our pension assets are classified in Level 3. Pension assets for which fair value is determined through the use of NAV and for which we may not have the ability to redeem our entire investment with the investee at NAV as of
the measurement date or in the near-term, are classified in Level 3. We classify pension assets that include significant unobservable inputs in Level 3.      Significant assets classified in Level 3, with the related Level 3 inputs to the valuation that may be subject to volatility and change, and additional considerations for leveling, are as follows:

Government, agency and corporate debt securities   Pricing services and dealers often use proprietary pricing models which incorporate
unobservable inputs. These inputs primarily consist of yield and credit spread assumptions. Management may consider other security attributes such as liquidity, market activity, price level, credit ratings and geo-political risk, in assessing the
observability of inputs used by pricing services or dealers, which may affect classification in the fair value hierarchy.      
         123

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          

Group annuity contracts   The value of each group annuity contract or policy depends, in part, on the values of the units of the separately
managed investment accounts backing the contract. The fair value of the separately managed investment account assets is based on the fair value of the underlying assets owned by these accounts. The separately managed investment accounts, which
typically calculate NAV, and underlying assets are valued in accordance with the valuation policies of the respective insurers. Inherent restrictions that do not allow redemption of our entire investment at NAV at the measurement date or in the
near-term are the primary considerations for these investments being classified in Level 3.          

Agency and non-agency mortgage and other asset-backed securities   Pricing services and dealers often use proprietary pricing models which
incorporate unobservable inputs. These inputs typically consist of prepayment curves, discount rates, default assumptions and recovery rates. Management may consider other security attributes such as liquidity, market activity, price level, credit
ratings and geo-political risk, in assessing the observability of inputs used by pricing services or dealers, which may affect classification in the fair value hierarchy.      

Investment funds, private equity and debt investments, and real estate assets   The funds and certain special purpose entities valued using
NAV, and in which we may not have the ability to redeem our entire investment with the investee at NAV at the measurement date or in near-term, are classified in Level 3. The Level 3 inputs for these investments include NAV provided by the
investment sponsor or third party administrator. When NAV was not used as a practical expedient, the fair value estimates provided by investment sponsors are used. These fair value estimates are reviewed, and in cases where these estimates do not
represent fair value they may be adjusted by management based on changes in the composition or performance of the underlying investments or comparable investments, overall market conditions, and other economic factors. Such fair value adjustments at
December 31, 2009 and 2010 were not significant.         Refer to Note 4 to our consolidated financial
statements for a more detailed discussion of the inputs used to determine fair value for each significant asset class or category.        Other Postretirement Benefits        OPEB plans are accounted for on an
actuarial basis, which requires the selection of various assumptions, including a discount rate and healthcare cost trend rates. Old GM estimated the discount rate using an iterative process based on a hypothetical investment in a portfolio of
high-quality bonds rated AA or higher by a recognized rating agency and a hypothetical reinvestment of the proceeds of such bonds upon maturity using forward rates derived from a yield curve until the U.S. OPEB obligation was defeased. This
reinvestment component was incorporated into the methodology because it was not feasible, in light of the magnitude and time horizon over which the U.S. OPEB obligations extend, to accomplish full defeasance through direct cash flows from an
actual set of bonds selected at any given measurement date.      Beginning in September 2008, the discount rate used for the
benefits to be paid from the UAW retiree medical plan during the period September 2008 through December 2009 was based on a yield curve which used projected cash flows of representative high-quality AA rated bonds matched to spot rates along a yield
curve to determine the present value of cash flows to calculate a single equivalent discount rate. All other U.S. OPEB plans started using a discount rate based on a yield curve on July 10, 2009. The UAW retiree medical plan was settled on
December 31, 2009 and the plan assets were contributed to the New VEBA as part of the payment terms under the 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement. We are released from UAW retiree healthcare claims incurred after December 31, 2009.
     The significant non-U.S. OPEB plans cover Canadian employees. The discount rates for the Canadian plans are determined using
a cash flow matching approach, similar to the U.S. OPEB plans.   
         124

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   The following table summarizes the weighted-average discount rate used to determine net
OPEB expense for the significant plans:       
    As a result of
modifications made as part of the 363 Sale, there are no significant uncapped U.S. healthcare plans remaining at December 31, 2010 and, therefore, the healthcare cost trend rate no longer has a significant effect in the U.S. An estimate is
developed of the healthcare cost trend rates used to value benefit obligations for non-U.S. plans through review of historical retiree cost data and near-term healthcare outlook which includes appropriate cost control measures that have been
implemented. Changes in the healthcare cost trend rate can have significant effect on the actuarially determined obligation and related OPEB expense.      The following table summarizes the healthcare cost trend rates used in the remeasurement of the APBO:       

(a)  
  The implementation of the HCT in Canada is anticipated and will significantly reduce our exposure to changes in the healthcare cost trend rate.
       The following table summarizes the effect of a one-percentage point change in the assumed healthcare trend
rates based on the last remeasurement of the benefit plans at December 31, 2010 (dollars in millions):       
     
  (a) The implementation of the HCT in Canada is anticipated and will significantly reduce our exposure to changes in the healthcare cost trend rate.
       Layoff Benefits        UAW employees are provided with reduced wages and continued coverage under certain employee benefit programs through the SUB and TSP job security programs. The number of weeks that an employee receives
these benefits depends on the employee s classification as well as the number of years of service that the employee has accrued. A similar tiered benefit is provided to CAW employees. Considerable management judgment and assumptions are
required in calculating the related liability, including productivity initiatives, capacity actions and federal and state unemployment payments. The assumptions for the related benefit costs include the incidence of mortality, retirement, turnover
and the healthcare trend rate, which are applied on a consistent basis with other U.S. hourly benefit plans. While we believe our judgments and assumptions are reasonable, changes in the assumptions underlying these estimates, which we revise each
quarter, could result in a material effect on the financial statements in a given period.   
         125

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
     Deferred Taxes / Valuation Allowances     
  We establish and Old GM established valuation allowances for deferred tax assets based on a more likely than not standard. The ability to
realize deferred tax assets depends on the ability to generate sufficient taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods provided for in the tax law for each applicable tax jurisdiction. We consider and Old GM considered the following
possible sources of taxable income when assessing the realization of deferred tax assets:       

Future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;      

Future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards;      

Taxable income in prior carryback years; and          

Tax-planning strategies.         The assessment regarding whether a valuation allowance is required or should be adjusted also considers all available positive and negative evidence factors, including but not limited to:   

Nature, frequency, and severity of recent losses;      

Duration of statutory carryforward periods;          

Historical experience with tax attributes expiring unused; and      

Near- and medium-term financial outlook.         Concluding a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is significant negative evidence that is objective and verifiable, such as cumulative losses in recent years. We utilize and Old GM
utilized a rolling three years of actual and current year anticipated results as the primary measure of cumulative losses in recent years, as adjusted for non-recurring matters.   
  The valuation of deferred tax assets requires judgment in assessing the likely future tax consequences of events that have been
recognized in our financial statements or tax returns and future profitability. Our accounting for deferred tax consequences represents our best estimate of those future events. Changes in our current estimates, due to unanticipated events
or otherwise, could have a material impact on our financial condition and results of operations.      Though objective and
verifiable negative evidence continues to outweigh positive evidence in our key valuation allowance jurisdictions, we are experiencing positive evidence trends in various jurisdictions. South Korea and Australia are farther ahead in this trend of
sustained operating profits and taxable income. U.S. and Canada operations are showing early signs of this positive evidence trend, and Germany, Spain and the United Kingdom operations are not yet experiencing such a favorable shift. To the extent
this trend continues, it is reasonably possible our conclusion regarding the need for full valuation allowances could change, resulting in the reversal of some or all of the valuation allowances.   
  Refer to Note 23 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information regarding deferred taxes and valuation allowances.
       Valuation of Vehicle Operating Leases and Lease Residuals     
  In accounting for vehicle operating leases, a determination is made at the inception of a lease of the estimated realizable value (i.e.,
residual value) of the vehicle at the end of the lease. Residual value represents an estimate of the market value of the vehicle at the end of the lease term, which typically ranges from nine months to five years. A customer is obligated to make
payments during the term of a lease to the contract residual. A customer is not obligated to purchase a vehicle at the end of a lease, and we are and Old GM was exposed to a risk of loss to the extent the value of a vehicle is below the residual
value estimated at contract inception.      Residual values are initially determined by consulting independently published
residual value guides. Realization of residual values is dependent on the future ability to market vehicles under prevailing market conditions. Over the life of a lease, the adequacy of the   
         126

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
estimated residual value is evaluated and adjustments are made to the extent the expected value of a vehicle at lease termination declines. Adjustments may be in the form of revisions to
depreciation rates or recognition of impairment charges. Impairment is determined to exist if the undiscounted expected future cash flows are lower than the carrying amount of the leased vehicle. Additionally, for automotive retail leases, an
adjustment may also be made to the estimate of sales incentive accruals for residual support and risk sharing programs initially recorded when the vehicles are sold.      With respect to residual values of automotive leases to daily rental car companies, due to the short-term nature of the operating leases, Old GM historically had forecasted auction proceeds at lease
termination. In the three months ended December 31, 2008 forecasted auction proceeds in the United States differed significantly from actual auction proceeds due to highly volatile economic conditions, in particular a decline in consumer
confidence and available consumer credit, which affected the residual values of vehicles at auction. Due to these significant uncertainties, Old GM determined that it no longer had a reliable basis to forecast auction proceeds in the United States
and began utilizing current auction proceeds to estimate the residual values in the impairment analysis for the automotive leases to daily rental car companies, which is consistent with Old GM s impairment analyses for automotive retail leases.
As a result of this change in estimate, Old GM recorded an incremental impairment charge of $144 million in the three months ended December 31, 2008 related to the automotive leases to daily rental car companies.   
  The following table summarizes recorded impairment charges related to automotive retail leases to daily rental car companies and
automotive retail leases (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  The year ended December 31, 2008 includes an increase in intersegment residual support and risk sharing reserves of $220 million recorded as a reduction of revenue
in GMNA.        We continue to use the lower of forecasted or current auction proceeds to estimate residual values for
impairment purposes. Significant differences between the estimate of residual values and actual experience may materially affect impairment charges recorded, if any, and the rate at which vehicles in Equipment on operating leases, net are
depreciated. Significant differences will also affect the residual support and risk sharing reserves established as a result of certain agreements with Ally Financial, whereby Ally Financial is reimbursed up to an agreed-upon percentage of certain
residual value losses they experience on their operating lease portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2010 we recorded favorable adjustments to our residual support and risk sharing liabilities of $0.6 billion in the U.S. due to
increases in estimated residual values.      The following table illustrates the effect of changes in our estimate of vehicle
sales proceeds at lease termination on residual support and risk sharing reserves related to vehicles owned by Ally Financial at December 31, 2010 and 2009 holding all other assumptions constant (dollars in millions):   
   
    The critical
assumptions underlying the estimated carrying amount of leased vehicles included within Equipment on operating leases, net include: (1) estimated market value information obtained and used in estimating residual values; (2) proper
identification and estimation of business conditions; (3) remarketing abilities; and (4) vehicle and marketing programs. Changes in these assumptions could have a significant effect on the estimate of residual values.   
         127

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   Due to the contractual terms of our residual support and risk sharing agreements with
Ally Financial, which currently limit our maximum obligation to Ally Financial should vehicle residual values decrease, an increase in sales proceeds does not have the equivalent offsetting effect on our residual support and risk sharing reserves as
a decrease in sales proceeds.      The following table summarizes the maximum obligation and recorded receivables and liabilities
associated with the contractual terms of our residual support and risk sharing agreements with Ally Financial (dollars in millions):       
    When a lease vehicle is
returned or repossessed by us, the asset is recorded at the lower of cost or estimated selling price, less cost to sell.   
    Impairment of Goodwill        Goodwill arises from the application of fresh-start reporting and acquisitions accounted for as business combinations. Goodwill is tested for impairment in the fourth quarter of each year for all
reporting units, or more frequently if events occur or circumstances change that would warrant such a review. An impairment charge is recorded for the amount, if any, by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied value. Our reporting
units are GMNA, GME, GM Financial and various reporting units within the GMIO and GMSA segments. Due to the integrated nature of our manufacturing operations and the sharing of vehicle platforms among brands, assets and other resources are shared
extensively within GMNA and GME and financial information by brand or country is not discrete below the operating segment level such that GMNA and GME do not contain reporting units below the operating segment level. GM Financial also does not
contain reporting units below the operating segment level. GMIO and GMSA are less integrated given the lack of regional trade pacts and other unique geographical differences and thus contain separate reporting units below the operating segment
level.      At December 31, 2010 we had goodwill of $31.8 billion, which predominately arose upon the application of fresh-start reporting
and the acquisition of AmeriCredit. When applying fresh-start reporting, certain accounts, primarily employee benefit and income tax related, were recorded at amounts determined under specific U.S. GAAP rather than fair value, and the difference
between the U.S. GAAP and fair value amounts gives rise to goodwill, which is a residual. Our employee benefit related accounts were recorded in accordance with ASC 712 and ASC 715 and deferred income taxes were recorded in accordance with ASC 740.
Further, we recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, which under ASC 852 also resulted in goodwill. If all identifiable assets and liabilities had been recorded at fair value upon application of fresh-start
reporting, no goodwill would have resulted. In conjunction with the acquisition of GM Financial in October 2010, we recorded $1.3 billion of acquisition related goodwill, including $153 million recorded at the acquisition-date to establish a
valuation allowance for deferred taxes which was not applicable to GM Financial on a stand-alone basis.      In the future, we
have an increased likelihood of measuring goodwill for possible impairment during our annual or event-driven goodwill impairment testing and in evaluating whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists for reporting units with
zero or negative carrying values. An event-driven impairment test is required if it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its net book value. Because our reporting units were recorded at their fair values upon
application of fresh-start reporting, it is more likely a decrease in the fair value of our reporting units from their fresh-start reporting values could occur, and such a decrease would trigger the need to measure for possible goodwill impairments.
Refer to Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information related to the adoption of ASU 2010-28,  Intangibles, Goodwill and Other: When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill Impairment Test for Reporting Units. 
  
         128

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   Future goodwill impairments could occur should the fair value-to-U.S. GAAP adjustments
differences decrease. Goodwill predominately resulted from our recorded liabilities for certain employee benefit obligations being higher than the fair value of these obligations because lower discount rates were utilized in determining the U.S.
GAAP values compared to those utilized to determine fair values. The discount rates utilized to determine the fair value of these obligations were based on our incremental borrowing rates, which included our nonperformance risk. Our incremental
borrowing rates are also affected by changes in market interest rates. Further, the recorded amounts of our assets were lower than their fair values because of the recording of valuation allowances on certain of our deferred tax assets. The
difference between these fair value-to-U.S. GAAP amounts would decrease upon an improvement in our credit rating, thus resulting in a decrease in the spread between our employee benefit related obligations under U.S. GAAP and their fair values. A
decrease will also occur upon reversal of our deferred tax asset valuation allowances. Should the fair value-to-U.S. GAAP adjustments differences decrease for these reasons, the implied goodwill balance will decline. Accordingly, at the next annual
or event-driven goodwill impairment test, to the extent the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, a goodwill impairment could occur. Future goodwill impairments could also occur should we reorganize our internal reporting
structure in a manner that changes the composition of one or more of our reporting units. Upon such an event, goodwill would be reassigned to the affected reporting units using a relative-fair-value allocation approach, unless the entity was never
integrated, and not based on the amount of goodwill that was originally attributable to fair value-to-U.S. GAAP differences that gave rise to goodwill.      When performing our goodwill impairment testing, the fair values of our reporting units were determined based on valuation techniques using the best available information, primarily discounted cash flow
projections. We make significant assumptions and estimates about the extent and timing of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. The cash flows are estimated over a significant future period of time, which makes those estimates and
assumptions subject to a high degree of uncertainty. Where available and as appropriate, comparative market multiples and the quoted market price of our common stock are used to corroborate the results of the discounted cash flow method. While we
believe that the assumptions and estimates used to determine the estimated fair values of each of our reporting units are reasonable, a change in assumptions underlying these estimates could result in a material effect on the consolidated financial
statements. Assumptions used in our discounted cash flow analysis that have the most significant effect on the estimated fair value of our reporting units include:       

Our estimated WACC;          

Our estimated long-term growth rates; and          

Our estimate of industry sales and our market share.         During the three months ended December 31, 2010 we performed our annual goodwill impairment testing for all reporting units. Based on this testing, we determined that goodwill was not impaired. The
valuation methodologies utilized to perform our goodwill impairment testing were consistent with those used in our application of fresh-start reporting on July 10, 2009, as discussed in Note 2 to our consolidated financial statements, and in
any subsequent annual or event-driven impairment tests and resulted in Level 3 measures. The following table summarizes the key assumptions for each of our more significant reporting units utilized in our 2010 annual goodwill impairment testing as
of October 1, 2010 (dollars and volumes in millions):       

(a)  
  Industry sales volume and market share for GM Daewoo are based on global industry volumes as GM Daewoo exports vehicles globally.     
         129

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   The WACCs considered various factors including bond yields, risk premiums, and tax
rates; the terminal values were determined using a growth model that applied a reporting unit s long-term growth rate to its projected cash flows beyond 2014; and industry sales and a market share for each reporting unit included annual
estimates through 2014, except for GME which is through 2015.      Our fair value estimates assume the achievement of the future
financial results contemplated in our forecasted cash flows, and there can be no assurance that we will realize that value. The estimates and assumptions used are subject to significant uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and there
is no assurance that anticipated financial results will be achieved.      In calculating the fair values of our more significant
reporting units during our 2010 annual goodwill impairment testing, keeping all other assumptions constant, the carrying values of these reporting units would still exceed their estimated fair values had our WACC increased by 16.5 percentage points
for GMNA, 7 percentage points for GME, 11 percentage points for GM Daewoo, 13.5 percentage points for Holden and 8.7 percentage points for GM Mercosur.      In the three months ended June 30, 2010 there were event-driven changes in circumstances within our GME reporting unit that warranted the testing of goodwill for impairment. In the three months ended
June 30, 2010 anticipated competitive pressure on our margins in the near- and medium-term led us to believe that the goodwill associated with our GME reporting unit may be impaired. Utilizing the best available information at June 30,
2010, the date of impairment measurement, we performed a Step 1 goodwill impairment test for our GME reporting unit, and concluded that goodwill was not impaired. The fair value of our GME reporting unit was estimated to be approximately $325
million over its carrying amount. If we had not passed Step 1, we believe the amount of any goodwill impairment would approximate $140 million representing the net decrease, from July 9, 2009 through June 30, 2010, in the fair
value-to-U.S. GAAP differences attributable to those assets and liabilities that gave rise to goodwill.      Refer to Notes 13 and
26 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on goodwill impairments.        Impairment of
Long-Lived Assets        The carrying amount of long-lived assets and finite-lived intangible assets to be held and used in
the business are evaluated when events and circumstances warrant. If the carrying amount of a long-lived asset group is considered impaired, a loss is recorded based on the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value for the asset
group to be held and used. Product-specific long-lived assets are tested for impairment at the platform level. Non-product line specific long-lived assets are tested for impairment on a segment basis in GMNA, GME, and GM Financial and tested at or
within our various reporting units within GMIO and GMSA segments. Assets classified as held for sale are recorded at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell. Fair value is determined primarily using the anticipated cash flows
discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved. We develop anticipated cash flows from historical experience and internal business plans. A considerable amount of management judgment and assumptions are required in performing the
long-lived asset impairment tests, principally in determining the fair value of the asset groups and the assets  average estimated useful life. While we believe our judgments and assumptions are reasonable, a change in assumptions underlying
these estimates could result in a material effect to the consolidated financial statements. Long-lived assets could become impaired in the future as a result of declines in profitability due to significant changes in volume, pricing or costs. Refer
to Note 26 to our consolidated financial statements for additional information on impairments of long-lived assets and intangibles.        Valuation of Cost and Equity Method Investments        When events and
circumstances warrant, equity investments accounted for under the cost or equity method of accounting are evaluated for impairment. An impairment charge would be recorded whenever a decline in value of an equity investment below its carrying amount
is determined to be other than temporary. In determining if a decline is other than temporary we consider and Old GM considered such factors as the length of time and extent to which the fair value of the investment has been less than the carrying
amount of the equity affiliate, the near-term and longer-term operating and financial prospects of the affiliate and the intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery.   
         130

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   When available, quoted market prices are used to determine fair value. If quoted market
prices are not available, fair value is based upon valuation techniques that use, where possible, market-based inputs. Generally, fair value is estimated using a combination of the income approach and the market approach because circumstances
usually do not permit the use of a single approach. Under the income approach, estimated future cash flows are discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved using marketplace assumptions. Under the market approach, valuations are based on
actual comparable market transactions and market earnings and book value multiples for the same or comparable entities. The assumptions used in the income and market approaches have a significant effect on the determination of fair value.
Significant assumptions include estimated future cash flows, appropriate discount rates, and adjustments to market transactions and market multiples for differences between the market data and the investment being valued. Changes to these
assumptions could have a significant effect on the valuation of cost and equity method investments.      In the three months ended
December 31, 2009 we recorded impairment charges related to our investment in Ally Financial common stock of $270 million. We determined the fair value of our investment in Ally Financial common stock using a market multiple,
sum-of-the-parts methodology. This methodology considered the average price/tangible book value multiples of companies deemed comparable to each of Ally Financial s operations, which were then aggregated to determine Ally Financial s
overall fair value. Based on our analysis, the estimated fair value of our investment in Ally Financial common stock was determined to be $970 million, resulting in an impairment charge of $270 million. The following table illustrates the
effect of a 0.1 change in the average price/tangible book value multiple on our impairment charge (dollars in millions):       

Change in Assumption   
      
   Effect
on     December 31, 2009     Impairment Charges   

Increase in average price/tangible book value multiple   
      
  +$  
  100  

Decrease in average price/tangible book value multiple   
      
   $  
  100  
           At December 31,
2010 the balance of our investment in Ally Financial common stock was $964 million and the balance of our investment in Ally Financial preferred stock was $665 million.   
    Derivatives        Derivatives are used in the normal course of business to manage exposures arising from market risks resulting from changes in certain commodity prices and interest and foreign currency exchange rates.
Derivatives are accounted for in the consolidated balance sheets as assets or liabilities at fair value.      Significant
judgments and estimates are used in estimating the fair values of derivative instruments, particularly in the absence of quoted market prices. Internal models are used to value a majority of derivatives. The models use, as their basis, readily
observable market inputs, such as time value, forward interest rates, volatility factors, and current and forward market prices for commodities and foreign currency exchange rates.   
  The valuation of derivative liabilities takes into account our nonperformance risk. At December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009,
our nonperformance risk was not observable through a liquid credit default swap market. Our nonperformance risk was estimated using internal analysis to develop conclusions on our implied credit rating, which we used to determine the appropriate
credit spread, which would be applied to us by market participants. Prior to receiving published credit ratings we developed our credit rating conclusions using an analysis of comparable industrial companies. At December 31, 2010 we
incorporated published credit agency ratings of GM into our credit rating conclusions. At December 31, 2009, all derivatives whose fair values contained a significant credit adjustment based on our nonperformance risk were classified in Level
3. At December 31, 2010, we have determined that our non-performance risk no longer represents a significant input in the determination of the fair value of our derivatives. As of December 31, 2010 all automotive operations derivatives
have been classified in Level 2.        Sales Incentives     
  The estimated effect of sales incentives to dealers and customers is recorded as a reduction of Automotive revenue, and in certain
instances, as an increase to Automotive cost of sales, at the later of the time of sale or announcement of an incentive program to dealers. There may be numerous types of incentives available at any particular time, including a choice of incentives
for a specific   
         131

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
model. Incentive programs are generally brand specific, model specific or region specific, and are for specified time periods, which may be extended. Significant factors used in estimating the
cost of incentives include the volume of vehicles that will be affected by the incentive programs offered by product, product mix and the rate of customer acceptance of any incentive program, and the likelihood that an incentive program will be
extended, all of which are estimated based on historical experience and assumptions concerning customer behavior and future market conditions. When an incentive program is announced, the number of vehicles in dealer inventory eligible for the
incentive program is determined, and a reduction of Automotive revenue or increase to Automotive cost of sales is recorded in the period in which the program is announced. If the actual number of affected vehicles differs from this estimate, or if a
different mix of incentives is actually paid, the reduction in Automotive revenue or increase to Automotive cost of sales for sales incentives could be affected. There are a multitude of inputs affecting the calculation of the estimate for sales
incentives, and an increase or decrease of any of these variables could have a significant effect on recorded sales incentives.   
    Policy, Warranty and Recalls        The estimated costs related to policy and product warranties are accrued at the time products are sold, and the estimated costs related to product recalls based on a formal campaign soliciting return of
that product are accrued when they are deemed to be probable and can be reasonably estimated. These estimates are established using historical information on the nature, frequency, and average cost of claims of each vehicle line or each model year
of the vehicle line. However, where little or no claims experience exists for a model year or a vehicle line, the estimate is based on long-term historical averages. Revisions are made when necessary, based on changes in these factors. These
estimates are re-evaluated on an ongoing basis. We actively study trends of claims and take action to improve vehicle quality and minimize claims. Actual experience could differ from the amounts estimated requiring adjustments to these liabilities
in future periods. Due to the uncertainty and potential volatility of the factors contributing to developing estimates, changes in our assumptions could materially affect our results of operations.   
   Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted       Accounting standards not yet adopted are discussed in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements.       Forward-Looking Statements       In this report and in reports we subsequently
file with the SEC on Forms 10-K and 10-Q and file or furnish on Form 8-K, and in related comments by our management, we use words like  anticipate,   believe,   continue,   could, 
 designed,   effect,   estimate,   evaluate,   expect,   forecast,   goal,   initiative,   intend,   may,   objective, 
 outlook,   plan,   potential,   priorities,   project,   pursue,   seek,   should,   target,   when,   would,  or the negative of any of
those words or similar expressions to identify forward-looking statements that represent our current judgment about possible future events. In making these statements we rely on assumptions and analyses based on our experience and perception of
historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments as well as other factors we consider appropriate under the circumstances. We believe these judgments are reasonable, but these statements are not guarantees of any events or
financial results, and our actual results may differ materially due to a variety of important factors, both positive and negative. These factors, which may be revised or supplemented in subsequent reports on SEC Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K,
include among others the following:       

Our ability to realize production efficiencies and to achieve reductions in costs as a result of our restructuring initiatives and labor
modifications;          

Our ability to maintain quality control over our vehicles and avoid material vehicle recalls;      

Our ability to maintain adequate liquidity and financing sources and an appropriate level of debt, including as required to fund our planned
significant investment in new technology, and, even if funded, our ability to realize successful vehicle applications of new technology;          

The effect of business or liquidity difficulties for us or one or more subsidiaries on other entities in our corporate group as a result of our
highly integrated and complex corporate structure and operation;          

Our ability to continue to attract customers, particularly for our new products, including cars and crossover vehicles;
     
         132

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          

Availability of adequate financing on acceptable terms to our customers, dealers, distributors and suppliers to enable them to continue their
business relationships with us;          

The financial viability and ability to borrow of our key suppliers and their ability to provide systems, components and parts without
disruption;          

Our ability to take actions we believe are important to our long-term strategy, including our ability to enter into certain material
transactions outside of the ordinary course of business, which may be limited due to significant covenants in our secured revolving credit facility;          

Our ability to manage the distribution channels for our products, including our ability to consolidate our dealer network;

The ability to successfully restructure our European operations;      

The continued availability of both wholesale and retail financing from Ally Financial and its affiliates in the United States, Canada and the
other markets in which we operate to support our ability to sell vehicles in those markets, which is dependent on Ally Financial s ability to obtain funding and which may be suspended by Ally Financial if Ally Financial s credit exposure
to us exceeds certain limitations provided in our operating arrangements with Ally Financial;          

Our ability to develop captive financing capability, including through GM Financial and to successfully integrate GM Financial into our
operations;          

Overall strength and stability of general economic conditions and of the automotive industry, both in the United States and in global markets;

Continued economic instability or poor economic conditions in the United States and global markets, including the credit markets, or changes in
economic conditions, commodity prices, housing prices, foreign currency exchange rates or political stability in the markets in which we operate;          

Shortages of and increases or volatility in the price of oil, including as a result of political instability in the Middle East and African
nations;          

Significant changes in the competitive environment, including the effect of competition and excess manufacturing capacity in our markets, on our
pricing policies or use of incentives and the introduction of new and improved vehicle models by our competitors;          

Significant changes in economic and market conditions in China, including the effect of competition from new market entrants, on our vehicle
sales and market position in China;          

Changes in the existing, or the adoption of new, laws, regulations, policies or other activities of governments, agencies and similar
organizations, including where such actions may affect the production, licensing, distribution or sale of our products, the cost thereof or applicable tax rates;      

Costs and risks associated with litigation;          

Significant increases in our pension expense or projected pension contributions resulting from changes in the value of plan assets, the discount
rate applied to value the pension liabilities or other assumption changes; and          

Changes in accounting principles, or their application or interpretation, and our ability to make estimates and the assumptions underlying the
estimates, which could have an effect on earnings.         We caution readers not to place undue reliance on
forward-looking statements. We undertake no obligation to update publicly or otherwise revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or other factors that affect the subject of these statements, except
where we are expressly required to do so by law.   
  *  *  *  *  *  *  *   
         133

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
      Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk           Automotive       We and Old GM entered into a variety of foreign currency exchange, interest rate and commodity forward contracts and options to manage exposures arising from market risks resulting from changes in foreign
currency exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices. We do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes.      The overall financial risk management program is under the responsibility of the Risk Management Committee, which reviews and, where appropriate, approves strategies to be pursued to mitigate these risks.
The Risk Management Committee is comprised of members of our Management and functions under the oversight of the Finance and Risk Committee, a committee of the Board of Directors. The Finance and Risk Committee assists and guides the Board in its
oversight of our financial and risk management strategies. A risk management control framework is utilized to monitor the strategies, risks and related hedge positions, in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the Risk Management
Committee.      In August 2010 we changed our risk management policy. Our prior policy was intended to reduce volatility of
forecasted cash flows primarily through the use of forward contracts and swaps. The intent of the new policy is primarily to protect against risk arising from extreme adverse market movements on our key exposures and involves a shift to greater use
of purchased options.      A discussion of our and Old GM s accounting policies for derivative financial instruments is
included in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements. Further information on our exposure to market risk is included in Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements.   
  Old GM s credit standing and liquidity position in the first half of 2009 and the Chapter 11 Proceedings severely limited its
ability to manage risks using derivative financial instruments as most derivative counterparties were unwilling to enter into transactions with Old GM. Subsequent to the 363 Sale and through December 31, 2009, we were largely unable to enter
forward contracts pending the completion of negotiations with potential derivative counterparties. Since August 2010 we executed new agreements with counterparties that enable us to enter into options, forward contracts and swaps.   
  The following analyses provide quantitative information regarding exposure to foreign currency exchange rate risk, interest rate risk,
commodity price risk and equity price risk. Sensitivity analysis is used to measure the potential loss in the fair value of financial instruments with exposure to market risk. The models used assume instantaneous, parallel shifts in exchange rates,
interest rate yield curves and commodity prices. For options and other instruments with nonlinear returns, models appropriate to these types of instruments are utilized to determine the effect of market shifts. There are certain shortcomings
inherent in the sensitivity analyses presented, primarily due to the assumption that interest rates and commodity prices change in a parallel fashion and that spot exchange rates change instantaneously. In addition, the analyses are unable to
reflect the complex market reactions that normally would arise from the market shifts modeled and do not contemplate the effects of correlations between foreign currency pairs, or offsetting long-short positions in currency pairs which may
significantly reduce the potential loss in value.        Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk     
  We have and Old GM had foreign currency exposures related to buying, selling, and financing in currencies other than the functional
currencies of the operations. Derivative instruments, such as foreign currency forwards, swaps and options are used primarily to hedge exposures with respect to forecasted revenues, costs and commitments denominated in foreign currencies. At
December 31, 2010 such contracts have remaining maturities of up to 12 months. At December 31, 2010 our three most significant foreign currency exposures are the Euro/British Pound, U.S. Dollar/Korean Won, and Euro/Korean Won.   
  At December 31, 2010 and 2009 the net fair value liability of financial instruments with exposure to foreign currency risk was
$3.3 billion and $5.9 billion. This presentation utilizes a population of foreign currency exchange derivatives and foreign currency denominated debt and excludes the offsetting effect of foreign currency cash, cash equivalents and other
assets. The potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% adverse change in all quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be $513 million and $941 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009.   
         134

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   We are and Old GM was exposed to foreign currency risk due to the translation of the
results of certain international operations into U.S. Dollars as part of the consolidation process. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates can therefore create volatility in the results of operations and may adversely affect our financial
position.      The following table summarizes the amounts of automotive foreign currency translation and transaction gains
(losses) (dollars in millions):       
      Interest Rate Risk
       We are and Old GM was subject to market risk from exposure to changes in interest rates related to certain financial
instruments, primarily debt, capital lease obligations and certain marketable securities.      Interest rate risk in Old GM was
managed primarily with interest rate swaps. The interest rate swaps Old GM entered into usually involved the exchange of fixed for variable rate interest payments to effectively convert fixed rate debt into variable rate debt in order to achieve a
target range of variable rate debt. At December 31, 2010 we did not have any interest rate swap derivative positions to manage interest rate exposures in our automotive operations.   
  The following table summarizes our automotive debt by fixed rate and variable rate (dollars in millions):   

135

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   At December 31, 2010 and 2009 the fair value liability of debt and capital leases
was $4.8 billion and $16.0 billion. The potential increase in fair value resulting from a 10% decrease in quoted interest rates would be $166 million and $402 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009.   
  At December 31, 2010 we had $6.6 billion in marketable securities with exposure to interest rate risk. We invest in securities of
various types and maturities, the value of which are subject to fluctuations in interest rates. The potential decrease in fair value from a 50 basis point increase in interest rates would be $15 million at December 31, 2010. Our exposure to
interest rate risk on marketable securities at December 31, 2009 was insignificant.        Commodity Price Risk
       We are and Old GM was exposed to changes in prices of commodities used in the automotive business, primarily
associated with various non-ferrous and precious metals for automotive components and energy used in the overall manufacturing process. Certain commodity purchase contracts meet the definition of a derivative. Old GM entered into various
derivatives, such as commodity swaps and options, to offset its commodity price exposures. We use commodity options to offset our commodity price exposures.      At December 31, 2010 and 2009 the net fair value asset of commodity derivatives was $84 million and $11 million. The potential loss in fair value resulting from a 10% adverse change in the underlying
commodity prices would be $47 million and $6 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009. This amount excludes the offsetting effect of the commodity price risk inherent in the physical purchase of the underlying commodities.   
    Equity Price Risk        We are and Old GM was exposed to changes in prices of equity securities held. We typically do not attempt to reduce our market exposure to these equity instruments. Our exposure includes certain
investments we hold in warrants of other companies. At December 31, 2010 and 2009 the fair value of these warrants was $44 million and $25 million. At December 31, 2010 and 2009 our exposure also includes investments of $43 million and $45
million in equity securities recorded at fair value. These amounts represent the maximum exposure to loss from these investments.      At December 31, 2010, the carrying amount of cost method investments was $1.7 billion, of which the carrying amounts of our investments in Ally Financial common stock and Ally Financial preferred
stock were $964 million and $665 million. At December 31, 2009 the carrying amount of cost method investments was $1.7 billion, of which the carrying amounts of our investments in Ally Financial common stock and preferred stock were $970
million and $665 million. These amounts represent the maximum exposure to loss from these investments.        Counterparty
Risk        We are exposed to counterparty risk on derivative contracts, which is the loss we could incur if a counterparty
to a derivative contract defaulted. We enter into agreements with counterparties that allow the set-off of certain exposures in order to manage this risk.      Our counterparty risk is managed by our Risk Management Committee, which establishes exposure limits by counterparty. We monitor and report our exposures to the Risk Management Committee on a periodic
basis. At December 31, 2010 a majority of all of our counterparty exposures are with counterparties that are rated A or higher.        Concentration of Credit Risk        We are exposed to concentration of
credit risk primarily through holding cash and cash equivalents (which include money market funds), short- and long-term investments and derivatives. As part of our risk management process, we monitor and evaluate the credit standing of the
financial institutions with which we do business. The financial institutions with which we do business are generally highly rated and geographically dispersed.   
         136

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   We are exposed to credit risk related to the potential inability to access liquidity in
money market funds we invested in if the funds were to deny redemption requests. As part of our risk management process, we invest in large funds that are managed by reputable financial institutions. We also follow investment guidelines to limit our
exposure to individual funds and financial institutions.       Automotive Financing    
  Fluctuations in market interest rates affect GM Financial s credit facilities and securitization transactions. GM Financial s
gross interest rate spread, which is the difference between interest earned on finance receivables and interest paid, is affected by changes in interest rates as a result of GM Financial s dependence upon the issuance of variable rate
securities and the incurrence of variable rate debt to fund purchases of finance receivables.        Credit Facilities
       Fixed interest rate receivables purchased by GM Financial are pledged to secure borrowings under its credit
facilities. Amounts borrowed under these credit facilities bear interest at variable rates that are subject to frequent adjustments to reflect prevailing market interest rates. To protect the interest rate spread within each credit facility, GM
Financial is contractually required to enter into interest rate cap agreements in connection with borrowings under its credit facilities. The purchaser of the interest rate cap pays a premium in return for the right to receive the difference in the
interest cost at any time a specified index of market interest rates rises above the stipulated cap rate. The purchaser of the interest rate cap bears no obligation or liability if interest rates fall below the cap rate. As part of GM
Financial s interest rate risk management strategy and when economically feasible, it may simultaneously enter into a corresponding interest rate cap agreement in order to offset the premium paid by the trust to purchase the interest rate cap
and thus retain the interest rate risk. The fair value of the interest rate cap purchased is included in Total GM Financial Assets and the fair value of the interest rate cap agreement sold is included in Total GM Financial Liabilities.   
    Securitizations        The interest rate demanded by investors in GM Financial s securitization transactions depends on prevailing market interest rates for comparable transactions and the general interest rate
environment. GM Financial utilizes several strategies to minimize the effect of interest rate fluctuations on its gross interest rate margin, including the use of derivative financial instruments and the regular sale or pledging of automotive
receivables to securitization trusts.      In GM Financial s securitization transactions, it transfers fixed rate finance
receivables to securitization trusts that, in turn, sell either fixed rate or floating rate securities to investors. The fixed rates on securities issued by the trusts are indexed to market interest rate swap spreads for transactions of similar
duration or various LIBOR rates and do not fluctuate during the term of the securitization. The floating rates on securities issued by the trusts are indexed to LIBOR and fluctuate periodically based on movements in LIBOR. Derivative financial
instruments, such as interest rate swap and cap derivatives, are used to manage the gross interest rate spread on these transactions. GM Financial uses interest rate swap derivatives to convert the variable rate exposures on securities issued by its
securitization trusts to a fixed rate, thereby locking in the gross interest rate spread to be earned by it over the life of a securitization. Interest rate swap derivatives purchased by GM Financial do not affect the amount of cash flows received
by holders of the asset-backed securities issued by the trusts. The interest rate swap derivative serve to offset the effect of increased or decreased interest paid by the trusts on floating rate asset-backed securities on the cash flows received
from the trusts. GM Financial utilizes such arrangements to modify its net interest sensitivity to levels deemed appropriate based on risk tolerance. In circumstances where the interest rate risk is deemed to be tolerable, usually if the risk is
less than one year in term at inception, GM Financial may choose not to hedge potential fluctuations in cash flows due to changes in interest rates. Its special purpose entities are contractually required to purchase a derivative financial
instrument to protect the net spread in connection with the issuance of floating rate securities even if GM Financial chooses not to hedge its future cash flows. Although the interest rate cap derivatives are purchased by the trusts, cash outflows
from the trusts ultimately affect GM Financial s retained interests in the securitization transactions as cash expended by the securitization trusts will decrease the ultimate amount of cash to be received by GM Financial. Therefore, when
economically feasible, GM Financial may simultaneously sell a corresponding interest rate cap derivative to offset the premium paid   
         137

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   
by the trust to purchase the interest rate cap derivative. The fair value of the interest rate cap derivatives purchased in connection with securitization transactions are included in Total GM
Financial Assets and the fair value of the interest rate cap derivatives sold are included in Total GM Financial Liabilities. Changes in the fair value of the interest rate cap derivatives are a component of interest expense recorded in GM Financial
operating expenses and other.      GM Financial has entered into interest rate swap derivatives to hedge the variability in
interest payments on eight of its active securitization transactions. Portions of these interest rate swap derivatives are designated and qualify as cash flow hedges. The fair value of interest rate swap derivatives designated as hedges is included
in GM Financial Other liabilities. Interest rate swap derivatives that are not designated as hedges are included in GM Financial Other assets.      The following table summarizes GM Financial s interest rate sensitive assets and liabilities by year of expected maturity and the fair value of those assets and liabilities at December 31, 2010
(dollars in millions):       
 
         138

Table of Contents  

CONFIDENTIAL    
   GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES          
   GM Financial estimates the realization of financing receivables in future periods using
discount rate, prepayment and credit loss assumptions similar to its historical experience. Notional amounts on interest rate swap and cap derivatives are based on contractual terms. Credit facilities and securitization notes payable amounts have
been classified based on expected payoff. Senior notes and convertible senior notes principal amounts have been classified based on maturity.      The notional amounts of interest rate swap and cap derivatives, which are used to calculate the contractual payments to be exchanged under the contracts, represent average amounts that will be outstanding
for each of the years included in the table. Notional amounts do not represent amounts exchanged by parties and, thus, are not a measure of GM Financial s exposure to loss through its use of these derivatives.   
  GM Financial monitors hedging activities to ensure that the value of derivative financial instruments, their correlation to the contracts
being hedged and the amounts being hedged continue to provide effective protection against interest rate risk. However, there can be no assurance that these strategies will be effective in minimizing interest rate risk or that increases in interest
rates will not have an adverse effect on GM Financial s profitability. GM Financial does not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes.      *  *  *  *  *  *  *   
         139

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  General Motors Company, its Directors, and Stockholders:      We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of General Motors Company and subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in  Internal
Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting in Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material
respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons
performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or
fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our
opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of
the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of General Motors Company and subsidiaries as of and for the year ended December 31, 2010 (Successor). Our
report dated March 1, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule and included an explanatory paragraph related to the Successor s adoption of a revised accounting standard related
to consolidation principles.       

/ S / D ELOITTE    T OUCHE  LLP   
 
  Deloitte   Touche LLP   
 
  Detroit, Michigan   
 
  March 1, 2011    
         140

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
  General Motors Company, its Directors, and Stockholders:      We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of General Motors Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2010 (Successor) and 2009 (Successor), and the related Consolidated
Statements of Operations, Cash Flows and Equity (Deficit) for the year ended December 31, 2010 (Successor) and the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 (Successor), and the Consolidated Statements of Operations, Cash Flows
and Equity (Deficit) of General Motors Corporation and subsidiaries for the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 (Predecessor) and the year ended December 31, 2008 (Predecessor) (Successor and Predecessor collectively, the
Company). Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.      We conducted our audits
in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as
well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of General Motors Company and subsidiaries at December 31, 2010 (Successor) and
2009 (Successor) and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2010 (Successor) and the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 (Successor), and the results of operations and cash
flows of General Motors Corporation and Subsidiaries for the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 (Predecessor) and the year ended December 31, 2008 (Predecessor), in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.      As discussed in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, the Successor adopted amendments to Accounting
Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 810,  Consolidation , effective January 1, 2010.      As discussed in Note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements, on July 10, 2009 the Successor completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumed certain of the liabilities of the Predecessor in accordance with the Amended and Restated Master Sale and
Purchase Agreement pursuant to Section 363(b) of the Bankruptcy Code and the Bankruptcy Court sale order dated July 5, 2009. Accordingly, the accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with ASC Topic
852,  Reorganizations . The Successor applied fresh-start reporting and recognized the acquired net assets at fair value, resulting in a lack of comparability with the prior period financial statements of the Predecessor.   
  As discussed in Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements, the Predecessor adopted amendments to ASC Topic 805,  Business
Combinations , effective January 1, 2009.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Successor s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated March 1, 2011 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Successor s internal control over financial reporting.   

/ S / D ELOITTE    T OUCHE  LLP   
 
  Deloitte   Touche LLP   
 
  Detroit, Michigan   
 
  March 1, 2011    
         141

Table of Contents  

      GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS        (In millions, except per share amounts)          Item 8.
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data           
    Reference should be
made to the notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         142

Table of Contents  

      GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        (In millions, except share amounts)        
    Reference should be made to the notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         143

Table of Contents  

      GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        (In millions)        
    Reference should be made to the notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         144

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS   (Continued)        (In millions)          

    Reference should be made to the notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         145

Table of Contents  

      GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (DEFICIT)        (In millions)        
    Reference should be
made to the notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         146

Table of Contents  

    GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EQUITY (DEFICIT)        (In millions)        
    Reference should be made to the notes to consolidated financial statements.   
         147

Table of Contents  

      GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS          Note 1. Nature of Operations       General Motors
Company was formed by the United States Department of the Treasury (UST) in 2009 originally as a Delaware limited liability company, Vehicle Acquisition Holdings LLC, and subsequently converted to a Delaware corporation, NGMCO, Inc. This company,
which on July 10, 2009 acquired substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of General Motors Corporation (363 Sale) and changed its name to General Motors Company, is sometimes referred to in these consolidated financial
statements for the periods on or subsequent to July 10, 2009 as  we,   our,   us,   ourselves,  the  Company,   General Motors,  or  GM,  and is the successor entity solely
for accounting and financial reporting purposes (Successor). General Motors Corporation is sometimes referred to in these consolidated financial statements, for the periods on or before July 9, 2009, as  Old GM.  Prior to
July 10, 2009 Old GM operated the business of the Company, and pursuant to the agreement with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), as described in a no-action letter issued to Old GM by the SEC Staff on July 9, 2009 regarding our
filing requirements and those of Motors Liquidation Company (MLC), the accompanying consolidated financial statements include the financial statements and related information of Old GM as it is our predecessor entity solely for accounting and
financial reporting purposes (Predecessor). On July 10, 2009 in connection with the 363 Sale, General Motors Corporation changed its name to Motors Liquidation Company, which is sometimes referred to in these consolidated financial statements
for the periods on or after July 10, 2009 as  MLC.  MLC continues to exist as a distinct legal entity for the sole purpose of liquidating its remaining assets and liabilities.   
  On October 1, 2010 we acquired 100% of the outstanding equity interests of AmeriCredit Corp. (AmeriCredit), an automotive finance
company which we subsequently renamed General Motors Financial Company, Inc. (GM Financial).      We develop, produce and market
cars, trucks and parts worldwide. We also conduct finance operations through GM Financial. These financing operations consist principally of financing automobile purchases and leases for retail customers.   
  We analyze the results of our business through our five segments, which are GM North America (GMNA), GM Europe (GME),
GM International Operations (GMIO), GM South America (GMSA) and GM Financial. Nonsegment operations are classified as Corporate. Corporate includes investments in Ally Financial, Inc. (Ally Financial) (formerly GMAC Inc.), certain centrally
recorded income and costs, such as interest, income taxes and corporate expenditures, certain nonsegment specific revenues and expenses, including costs related to the Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements (as subsequently defined in Note 20) and a
portfolio of automotive retail leases.      We own a 9.9% equity interest in Ally Financial, which is accounted for as a cost
method investment because we cannot exercise significant influence. Ally Financial provides a broad range of financial services, including consumer vehicle financing, automotive dealership and other commercial financing, residential mortgage
services, and automobile service contracts.         Note 2. Chapter 11 Proceedings and the 363 Sale    
   Background       Over time
as Old GM s market share declined in North America, Old GM needed to continually restructure its business operations to reduce cost and excess capacity. Legacy labor costs and obligations and capacity in its dealer network made Old GM less
competitive than new entrants into the U.S. market. These factors continued to strain Old GM s liquidity. In 2005 Old GM incurred significant losses from operations and from restructuring activities such as providing support to Delphi
Corporation (Delphi) and other efforts intended to reduce operating costs. Old GM managed its liquidity during this time through a series of cost reduction initiatives, capital markets transactions and sales of assets. However, the global credit
market crisis had a dramatic effect on Old GM and the automotive industry. In the second half of 2008, the increased turmoil in the mortgage and overall credit markets (particularly the lack of financing for buyers or lessees of vehicles), the
continued reductions in U.S. housing values, the volatility in the price of oil, recessions in the U.S. and Western Europe and the slowdown of economic growth in the rest of the world created a substantially more difficult business environment. The
ability to execute capital markets transactions or sales of assets was extremely limited, vehicle sales in North America and Western Europe contracted severely, and the pace of vehicle sales in the rest of the world slowed. Old GM s liquidity
position, as well as its operating performance, were negatively affected by these economic and industry conditions and by other financial and business factors, many of which were beyond its control.   
         148

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   As a result of these economic conditions and the rapid decline in sales in the three
months ended December 31, 2008 Old GM determined that, despite the actions it had then taken to restructure its U.S. business, it would be unable to pay its obligations in the normal course of business in 2009 or service its debt in a timely
fashion, which required the development of a new plan that depended on financial assistance from the U.S. government.      In
December 2008 Old GM requested and received financial assistance from the U.S. government and entered into a loan and security agreement with the UST, which was subsequently amended (UST Loan Agreement). In early 2009 Old GM s business results
and liquidity continued to deteriorate, and, as a result, Old GM obtained additional funding from the UST under the UST Loan Agreement. Old GM also received funding from Export Development Canada (EDC), a corporation wholly-owned by the government
of Canada, under a loan and security agreement entered into in April 2009 (EDC Loan Facility).      As a condition to obtaining
the loans under the UST Loan Agreement, Old GM was required to submit a Viability Plan in February 2009 that included specific actions intended to result in the following:   

Repayment of all loans, interest and expenses under the UST Loan Agreement, and all other funding provided by the U.S. government;

Compliance with federal fuel efficiency and emissions requirements and commencement of domestic manufacturing of advanced technology vehicles;

Achievement of a positive net present value, using reasonable assumptions and taking into account all existing and projected future costs;

Rationalization of costs, capitalization and capacity with respect to its manufacturing workforce, suppliers and dealerships; and

A product mix and cost structure that is competitive in the U.S. marketplace.      
  The UST Loan Agreement also required Old GM to, among other things, use its best efforts to achieve the following restructuring targets:
       Debt Reduction         

Reduction of its outstanding unsecured public debt by not less than two-thirds through conversion of existing unsecured public debt into equity,
debt and/or cash or by other appropriate means.           Labor Modifications     

Reduction of the total amount of compensation paid to its U.S. employees so that, by no later than December 31, 2009, the average of such
total amount is competitive with the average total amount of such compensation paid to U.S. employees of certain foreign-owned, U.S. domiciled automakers (transplant automakers);      

Elimination of the payment of any compensation or benefits to U.S. employees who have been fired, laid-off, furloughed or idled, other than
customary severance pay; and          

Application of work rules for U.S. employees in a manner that is competitive with the work rules for employees of transplant automakers.
     
         149

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
     VEBA Modifications     

Modification of its retiree healthcare obligations arising under the 2008 UAW Settlement Agreement under which responsibility for providing
healthcare for International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) retirees, their spouses and dependents would permanently shift from Old GM to the New Plan funded by the UAW Retiree Medical
Benefits Trust (New VEBA), such that payment or contribution of not less than one-half of the value of each future payment was to be made in the form of Old GM common stock, subject to certain limitations.      
  The UST Loan Agreement provided that if, by March 31, 2009 or a later date (not to exceed 30 days after March 31, 2009) as
determined by the Presidential Task Force on the Auto Industry (Auto Task Force) (Certification Deadline), the Auto Task Force had not certified that Old GM had taken all steps necessary to achieve and sustain its long-term viability, international
competitiveness and energy efficiency in accordance with the Viability Plan, then the loans and other obligations under the UST Loan Agreement were to become due and payable on the thirtieth day after the Certification Deadline.   
  On March 30, 2009 the Auto Task Force determined that the plan was not viable and required substantial revisions. In conjunction
with the March 30, 2009 announcement, the administration announced that it would offer Old GM adequate working capital financing for a period of 60 days while it worked with Old GM to develop and implement a more accelerated and aggressive
restructuring that would provide a sound long-term foundation. On March 31, 2009 Old GM and the UST agreed to postpone the Certification Deadline to June 1, 2009.      Old GM made further modifications to its Viability Plan in an attempt to satisfy the Auto Task Force requirement that it undertake a substantially more accelerated and aggressive restructuring plan
(Revised Viability Plan). The following is a summary of significant cost reduction and restructuring actions contemplated by the Revised Viability Plan, the most significant of which included reducing Old GM s indebtedness and VEBA obligations.
       Indebtedness and VEBA obligations        In April 2009 Old GM commenced exchange offers for certain unsecured notes to reduce its unsecured debt in order to comply with the debt reduction condition of the UST Loan Agreement.   
  Old GM also commenced discussions with the UST regarding the terms of a potential restructuring of its debt obligations under the UST
Loan Agreement, the UST Ally Financial Loan Agreement (as subsequently defined), and any other debt issued or owed to the UST in connection with those loan agreements pursuant to which the UST would exchange at least 50% of the total outstanding
debt Old GM owed to it at June 1, 2009 for Old GM common stock.      In addition, Old GM commenced discussions with the UAW
and the VEBA-settlement class representative regarding the terms of potential VEBA modifications.        Other Cost Reduction
and Restructuring Actions        In addition to the efforts to reduce debt and modify the VEBA obligations, the Revised
Viability Plan also contemplated the following cost reduction efforts:       

Extended shutdowns of certain North American manufacturing facilities in order to reduce dealer inventory;      

Refocus its resources on four core U.S. brands: Chevrolet, Cadillac, Buick and GMC;      

Acceleration of the resolution for Saab Automobile AB (Saab), HUMMER and Saturn and no planned future investment for Pontiac, which was phased
out by the end of 2010;      
         150

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

A reduction in the U.S. hourly employment levels from 61,000 in 2008 to 40,000 in 2010 as a result of the nameplate reductions, operational
efficiencies and plant capacity reductions   through these actions, our special attrition programs and other U.S. hourly workforce reductions, we have reduced the number of U.S. hourly employees to 49,000 at December 31, 2010.
        Old GM had previously announced that it would reduce salaried employment levels on a global basis by 10,000
during 2009 and had instituted several programs to effect reductions in salaried employment levels. Old GM had also negotiated a revised labor agreement with the Canadian Auto Workers Union (CAW) to reduce its hourly labor costs to approximately the
level paid to the transplant automakers; however, such agreement was contingent upon receiving longer term financial support for its Canadian operations from the Canadian federal and Ontario provincial governments.   
   Chapter 11 Proceedings    
  Old GM was not able to complete the cost reduction and restructuring actions in its Revised Viability Plan, including the debt reductions
and VEBA modifications, which resulted in extreme liquidity constraints. As a result, on June 1, 2009 Old GM and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries filed voluntary petitions for relief under Chapter 11 (Chapter 11 Proceedings) of
the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (Bankruptcy Code) in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York (Bankruptcy Court).      In connection with the Chapter 11 Proceedings, Old GM entered into a secured superpriority debtor-in-possession credit agreement with the UST and EDC (DIP Facility) and received additional funding
commitments from EDC to support Old GM s Canadian operations.      The following table summarizes the total funding and
funding commitments Old GM received from the U.S. and Canadian governments and the additional notes Old GM issued related thereto in the period December 31, 2008 through July 9, 2009 (dollars in millions):   

(a)  
  Old GM did not receive any proceeds from the issuance of these promissory notes, which were issued as additional compensation to the UST and EDC.

(b)  
  Includes debt of $361 million, which the UST loaned to Old GM under the warranty program.     

(c)  
  Includes approximately $2.4 billion from the EDC Loan Facility received in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 and funding commitments of CAD $4.5
billion (equivalent to $3.9 billion when entered into) that were immediately converted into our equity. This funding was received on July 15, 2009.     
         151

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    363 Sale       On July 10, 2009 we completed the acquisition of substantially all of the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Old GM and certain of its direct and indirect subsidiaries (collectively, the
Sellers). The 363 Sale was consummated in accordance with the Amended and Restated Master Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated June 26, 2009, as amended, (Purchase Agreement) between us and the Sellers, and pursuant to the Bankruptcy Court s
sale order dated July 5, 2009.      In connection with the 363 Sale, the purchase price paid to Old GM was composed of:

A credit bid in an amount equal to the total of: (1) debt of $19.8 billion under Old GM s UST Loan Agreement, plus notes of $1.2
billion issued as additional compensation for the UST Loan Agreement, plus interest on such debt Old GM owed as of the closing date of the 363 Sale; and (2) debt of $33.3 billion under Old GM s DIP Facility, plus notes of $2.2 billion
issued as additional compensation for the DIP Facility, plus interest Old GM owed as of the closing date, less debt of $8.2 billion owed under the DIP Facility;      

The UST s return of the warrants Old GM previously issued to it;      

The issuance to MLC of 150 million shares (or 10%) of our common stock and warrants to acquire newly issued shares of our common stock
initially exercisable for a total of 273 million shares of our common stock (or 15% on a fully diluted basis); and          

Our assumption of certain specified liabilities of Old GM (including debt of $7.1 billion owed under the DIP Facility).
        Under the Purchase Agreement, we are obligated to issue Adjustment Shares to MLC in the event that allowed
general unsecured claims against MLC, as estimated by the Bankruptcy Court, exceed $35.0 billion. The maximum number of Adjustment Shares issuable is 30 million shares (subject to adjustment to take into account stock dividends, stock splits
and other transactions). The number of Adjustment Shares to be issued is calculated based on the extent to which estimated general unsecured claims exceed $35.0 billion with the maximum number of Adjustment Shares issued if estimated general
unsecured claims total $42.0 billion or more. In the period July 10, 2009 to December 31, 2009 we determined that it was probable that general unsecured claims allowed against MLC would ultimately exceed $35.0 billion by at least $2.0
billion. In the circumstance where estimated general unsecured claims equal $37.0 billion, we would have been required to issue 8.6 million Adjustment Shares to MLC as an adjustment to the purchase price. At December 31, 2009 we recorded a
liability of $162 million included in Accrued liabilities. In the year ended December 31, 2010 the liability was adjusted quarterly based on available information. Based on information which became available in the three months ended
December 31, 2010, we concluded it was no longer probable that general unsecured claims would exceed $35.0 billion and we reversed to income our previously recorded liability of $231 million for the contingently issuable Adjustment Shares.
       Agreements with the UST, EDC and New VEBA     
  On July 10, 2009 we entered into the UST Credit Agreement and assumed debt of $7.1 billion maturing on July 10, 2015 that Old
GM incurred under its DIP Facility (UST Loans). Immediately after entering into the UST Credit Agreement, we made a partial prepayment, reducing the UST Loans principal balance to $6.7 billion. We also entered into the VEBA Note Agreement and issued
a note in the principal amount of $2.5 billion (VEBA Notes) to the New VEBA. Through our wholly-owned subsidiary General Motors of Canada Limited (GMCL), we also entered into the amended and restated Canadian Loan Agreement with EDC, as a result of
which GMCL has a CAD $1.5 billion (equivalent to $1.3 billion when entered into) term loan (Canadian Loan).      In December
2009 and March 2010 we made quarterly payments of $1.0 billion and $1.0 billion on the UST Loans and GMCL made quarterly payments of $192 million and $194 million on the Canadian Loan. In April 2010, we used funds from our escrow
account to repay in full the outstanding amount of the UST Loans of $4.7 billion, and GMCL repaid in full the outstanding amount of the Canadian Loan of $1.1 billion. Both loans were repaid prior to maturity. On October 26, 2010 we repaid in
full the outstanding amount (together with accreted interest thereon) of the VEBA Notes of $2.8 billion.   
         152

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   Refer to Note 19 for additional information on the UST Loans, VEBA Notes and the
Canadian Loan.        Issuance of Common Stock, Preferred Stock and Warrants     
  On July 10, 2009 we issued the following securities to the UST, Canada GEN Investment Corporation (formerly 7176384 Canada Inc.), a
corporation organized under the laws of Canada (Canada Holdings), the New VEBA and MLC (shares in millions):       

(a)  
  New VEBA also received a warrant to acquire 46 million shares of our common stock and MLC received two warrants, each to acquire 136 million shares of our
common stock.         Preferred Stock       The shares of Series A Preferred Stock have a liquidation amount of $25.00 per share and accrue cumulative dividends at 9.0% per annum (payable quarterly on
March 15, June 15, September 15 and December 15) that are payable if, as and when declared by our Board of Directors. So long as any share of the Series A Preferred Stock remains outstanding, no dividend or distribution
may be declared or paid on our common stock or our Series B Preferred Stock unless all accrued and unpaid dividends have been paid on the Series A Preferred Stock, subject to exceptions, such as dividends on our common stock payable solely in shares
of our common stock. On or after December 31, 2014 we may redeem, in whole or in part, the shares of Series A Preferred Stock outstanding, at a redemption price per share equal to $25.00 per share plus any accrued and unpaid dividends, subject
to limited exceptions.      The Series A Preferred Stock was previously classified as temporary equity because the holders of the
Series A Preferred Stock, as a class, owned greater than 50% of our common stock and therefore had the ability to exert control, through the power to vote for the election of our directors, over various matters, which could include compelling us to
redeem the Series A Preferred Stock in 2014 or later. In December 2010 we purchased 84 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock, held by the UST. Since the remaining holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, Canada Holdings and the New VEBA,
do not own a majority of our common stock and therefore do not have the ability to exert control, through the power to vote for the election of our directors, over various matters, including compelling us to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock when
it becomes callable by us on or after December 31, 2014, our classification of the Series A Preferred Stock as temporary equity is no longer appropriate. As such, upon the purchase of the Series A Preferred Stock held by the UST, the Series A
Preferred Stock held by Canada Holdings and the New VEBA was reclassified to permanent equity at its carrying amount of $5.5 billion. Refer to Note 29 for additional information on the purchase of shares of Series A Preferred Stock.   
   Warrants    
  The first tranche of warrants issued to MLC is exercisable at any time prior to July 10, 2016, with an exercise price of $10.00 per
share. The second tranche of warrants issued to MLC is exercisable at any time prior to July 10, 2019, with an exercise price of $18.33 per share. The warrant issued to the New VEBA is exercisable at any time prior to December 31, 2015,
with an exercise price of $42.31 per share. The number of shares of our common stock underlying each of the warrants issued to MLC and the New VEBA and the per share exercise price are subject to adjustment as a result of certain events, including
stock splits, reverse stock splits and stock dividends.   
         153

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
     Additional Modifications to Pension and Other Postretirement Plans Contingent upon
the Completion of the 363 Sale        We modified the U.S. hourly pension plan, the U.S. executive retirement plan, the U.S.
salaried life plan, the non-UAW hourly retiree medical plan and the U.S. hourly life plan. These modifications became effective upon the completion of the 363 Sale. The key modifications were:   

Elimination of the post 65 benefits and capping the pre 65 benefits in the non-UAW hourly retiree medical plan;      

Capping the life benefit for non-UAW retirees and future retirees at $10,000 in the U.S. hourly life plan;      

Capping the life benefit for existing salaried retirees at $10,000, reduced the retiree benefit for future salaried retirees and eliminated the
executive benefit for the U.S. salaried life plan;          

Elimination of a portion of nonqualified benefits in the U.S. executive retirement plan; and      

Elimination of the flat monthly special lifetime benefit of $66.70 that was to commence on January 1, 2010 for the U.S. hourly pension
plan.          Accounting for the Effects of the Chapter 11 Proceedings and the 363 Sale    
    Chapter 11 Proceedings        Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 852,  Reorganizations,  (ASC 852) is applicable to entities operating under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code. ASC 852 generally does not affect the
application of U.S. GAAP that we and Old GM followed to prepare the consolidated financial statements, but it does require specific disclosures for transactions and events that were directly related to the Chapter 11 Proceedings and transactions and
events that resulted from ongoing operations.      Old GM prepared its consolidated financial statements in accordance with the
guidance in ASC 852 in the period June 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009. Revenues, expenses, realized gains and losses, and provisions for losses directly related to the Chapter 11 Proceedings were recorded in Reorganization gains, net.
Reorganization gains, net do not constitute an element of operating loss due to their nature and due to the requirement of ASC 852 that they be reported separately. Old GM s balance sheet prior to the 363 Sale distinguished prepetition
liabilities subject to compromise from prepetition liabilities not subject to compromise and from postpetition liabilities. Cash amounts provided by or used in the Chapter 11 Proceedings are separately disclosed in the statement of cash flows.
       Application of Fresh-Start Reporting        The Bankruptcy Court did not determine a reorganization value in connection with the 363 Sale. Reorganization value is defined as the value of our assets without liabilities. In order to apply fresh-start
reporting, ASC 852 requires that total postpetition liabilities and allowed claims be in excess of reorganization value and prepetition stockholders receive less than 50.0% of our common stock. Based on our estimated reorganization value, we
determined that on July 10, 2009 both the criteria of ASC 852 were met and, as a result, we applied fresh-start reporting.   
  Our reorganization value was determined using the sum of:   

Our discounted forecast of expected future cash flows from our business subsequent to the 363 Sale, discounted at rates reflecting perceived
business and financial risks;          

The fair value of operating liabilities;          

The fair value of our non-operating assets, primarily our investments in nonconsolidated affiliates and cost method investments; and
     
         154

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

The amount of cash we maintained at July 10, 2009 that we determined to be in excess of the amount necessary to conduct our normal business
activities.         The sum of the first, third and fourth bullet items equals our Enterprise value.   
  Our discounted forecast of expected future cash flows included:   

Forecasted cash flows for the six months ended December 31, 2009 and the years ending December 31, 2010 through 2014, for each of Old
GM s former segments including GMNA, GME, GM Latin America/Africa/Middle East (GMLAAM) and GM Asia Pacific (GMAP) and for certain subsidiaries that incorporated:      

Industry seasonally adjusted annual rate (SAAR) of vehicle sales and our related market share based on vehicle sales volumes as follows:

Projected product mix, which incorporates the 2010 introductions of the Chevrolet Volt, Chevrolet/Holden Cruze, Cadillac CTS Coupe,
Opel/Vauxhall Meriva and Opel/Vauxhall Astra Station Wagon;          

Projected changes in our cost structure due to restructuring initiatives that encompass reduction of hourly and salaried employment levels by
approximately 18,000;          

The terms of the 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement, which released us from UAW retiree healthcare claims incurred after December 31,
2009;          

Anticipated changes in global market conditions.      

A terminal value, which was determined using a growth model that applied long-term growth rates ranging from 0.5% to 6.0% and a weighted-average
long-term growth rate of 2.6% to our projected cash flows beyond 2014. The long-term growth rates were based on our internal projections as well as industry growth prospects; and      

Discount rates that considered various factors including bond yields, risk premiums, and tax rates to determine a weighted-average cost of
capital (WACC), which measures a company s cost of debt and equity weighted by the percentage of debt and equity in a company s target capital structure. We used discount rates ranging from 16.5% to 23.5% and a weighted-average rate of
22.8%.      
         155

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   To estimate the value of our investment in nonconsolidated affiliates we used multiple
valuation techniques, but we primarily used discounted cash flow analyses. Our excess cash of $33.8 billion, including Restricted cash and marketable securities of $21.2 billion, represents cash in excess of the amount necessary to conduct our
ongoing day-to-day business activities and to keep them running as a going concern. Refer to Note 15 for additional discussion of Restricted cash and marketable securities.      Our estimate of reorganization value assumes the achievement of the future financial results contemplated in our forecasted cash flows, and there can be no assurance that we will realize that value. The
estimates and assumptions used are subject to significant uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and there is no assurance that anticipated financial results will be achieved. Assumptions used in our discounted cash flow analysis that
have the most significant effect on our estimated reorganization value include:       

Our estimated WACC;          

Our estimated long-term growth rates; and          

Our estimate of industry sales and our market share in each of Old GM s former segments.      
  The following table reconciles our enterprise value to our estimated reorganization value and the estimated fair value of our Equity (in
millions except per share amounts):       

(a)  
  Operating liabilities are our total liabilities excluding the liabilities listed in the reconciliation above of our enterprise value to the fair value of our common
equity.         

(b)  
  Reorganization value does not include assets with a carrying amount of $1.8 billion and a fair value of $2.0 billion at July 9, 2009 that MLC retained.

(c)  
    The application of fresh-start reporting resulted in the recognition of goodwill. When applying fresh-start reporting, certain accounts, primarily
employee benefit and income tax related, were recorded at amounts determined under specific U.S. GAAP rather than at fair value and the difference between the U.S. GAAP and fair value amounts gives rise to goodwill, which is a residual. Further, we
recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, which under ASC 852 also resulted      
         156

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

in goodwill. Our employee related obligations were recorded in accordance with ASC 712,  Compensation-Nonretirement Postemployment Benefits  (ASC 712) and ASC 715,  Compensation
Benefits  (ASC 715) and deferred income taxes were recorded in accordance with ASC 740,  Income Taxes  (ASC 740).          

(d)  
  The 260 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock, 263 million shares of our common stock, and warrant to acquire 46 million shares of our common stock
issued to the New VEBA on July 10, 2009 were not considered outstanding until the UAW retiree medical plan was settled on December 31, 2009. The fair value of these instruments was included in the liability recognized at July 10, 2009
for this plan. The common shares issued to the New VEBA are excluded from common shares outstanding at July 10, 2009. Refer to Note 20 for a discussion of the termination of our UAW hourly retiree medical plan and Mitigation Plan and the
resulting payment terms to the New VEBA.     
         157

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Effect of 363 Sale Transaction and Application of Fresh-Start Reporting    
  The following table summarizes the adjustments to Old GM s consolidated balance sheet as a result of the 363 Sale and the
application of fresh-start reporting and presents our consolidated balance sheet at July 10, 2009 (dollars in millions):       
 
         158

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
     Reorganization Via 363 Sale Adjustments     
  The following table summarizes the reorganization adjustments previously discussed including the liabilities that were extinguished or
reclassified from Liabilities subject to compromise as part of the 363 Sale (dollars in millions):       
 
         159

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  Liabilities owed to the UST under the UST Loan Agreement of $20.6 billion, with accrued interest of $251 million, and under the DIP Facility of $30.9 billion with
accrued interest of $54 million and borrowings related to the warranty program of $361 million were extinguished in connection with the 363 Sale through the assumption of the UST Loans of $7.1 billion and the issuance of 912 million shares of
our common stock with a fair value of $12.1 billion and 84 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock with a fair value of $1.5 billion.         

(b)  
  Liabilities owed to Canada Holdings under the EDC Loan Facility of $2.6 billion and under the DIP Facility of $3.4 billion were extinguished in connection with the 363
Sale through the assumption of the Canadian Loan of CAD $1.5 billion (equivalent of $1.3 billion when entered into) and the issuance of 175 million shares of our common stock with a fair value of $2.3 billion and 16 million shares of
Series A Preferred Stock with a fair value of $279 million. In addition, we recorded an increase in Accounts and notes receivable, net of $3.9 billion at July 10, 2010 for amounts to be received from the EDC in exchange for the equity Canada
Holdings received in connection with the 363 Sale.         

(c)  
  As a result of modifications to the UAW hourly retiree medical plan that became effective upon the 363 Sale, we recorded a reorganization gain of $7.7 billion that
represented the difference between the carrying amount of our $19.7 billion plan obligation at July 9, 2009 and the July 10, 2009 actuarially determined value of $12.0 billion for our modified plan based on the revised terms of the 2009
UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement. Our obligation to the UAW hourly retiree medical plan was settled on December 31, 2009. Prior to the December 31, 2009 settlement, the VEBA Notes, Series A Preferred Stock, common stock and warrants
contributed to the New VEBA were not considered outstanding. Refer to Note 20 for additional information on the 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement.         

(d)  
  As a result of modifications to benefit plans that became effective upon the 363 Sale, we recorded a reorganization gain of $4.6 billion, which represented the
difference between the carrying amount of our obligations under certain plans at July 9, 2009, and our new actuarially determined obligations at July 10, 2009. Major changes include:     

For the non-UAW hourly retiree healthcare plan, we recorded a $2.7 billion gain resulting from elimination of post 65 benefits and placing a cap on pre
65 benefits;          

For retiree life insurance we recorded a $923 million gain, resulting from capping benefits at $10,000 for non-UAW hourly retirees and future retirees,
capping benefits at $10,000 for existing salaried retirees, reducing benefits for future salaried retirees, and elimination of executive benefits;          

For the U.S. supplemental executive retirement plan, we recorded a $221 million gain from the elimination of a portion of nonqualified benefits; and

For the U.S. hourly defined benefit pension plan, we recorded a $675 million gain, representing the net of a $3.3 billion obligation decrease resulting
from the elimination of the flat monthly special lifetime benefit that was to commence on January 1, 2010, offset by an obligation increase of $2.6 billion from a discount rate decrease from 6.25% to 5.83% and other assumption changes.

(e)  
  Represents the net liabilities MLC retained in connection with the 363 Sale, primarily consisting of Old GM s unsecured debt and amounts owed to the UST under the
DIP Facility of $1.2 billion. These net liabilities were settled in exchange for assets retained by MLC with a carrying amount of $1.8 billion and a fair value of $2.0 billion, 150 million shares of our common stock with a fair value of $2.0
billion, warrants to acquire an additional 273 million shares of our common stock with a fair value of $2.4 billion and the right to contingently receive the Adjustment Shares. We increased Other liabilities and deferred income taxes to reflect
the estimated fair value of $113 million for our obligation to issue the Adjustment Shares to MLC.     
         160

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes the carrying amount of the assets MLC retained (dollars
in millions):       

Predecessor   

Carrying amount at     July 
9, 2009   

Cash and cash equivalents   
      
  $  
  41  

Restricted cash and marketable securities, current   

1,175  

Accounts and notes receivable, net   

28  

Inventories   

140  

Equipment on operating leases, net   

(2  
  )    
 
    Other current assets and deferred income taxes   

46  

Restricted cash and marketable securities, non-current   

144  

Equity in net assets of nonconsolidated affiliates   

(4  
  )    
 
    Property, net   

137  

Deferred income taxes   

80  

Other assets, non-current   

12  

Total assets   
      
  $  
  1,797  

(f)  
  We assumed $94 million of certain employee benefit obligations that were included in Liabilities subject to compromise that are now included in Accrued liabilities ($64
million) and Other liabilities ($30 million). These primarily relate to postemployment benefits not modified as a part of the 363 Sale. In addition, in connection with the 363 Sale, we concluded that it was more likely than not that certain net
deferred tax assets, primarily in Brazil, will be realized. Therefore, we reversed the existing valuation allowances related to such deferred tax assets resulting in an increase of $121 million in Other current assets and an increase of $630 million
in Deferred income taxes, non-current. To record other tax effects of the 363 Sale, we recorded an increase to Other liabilities of $41 million. We recorded a net reorganization gain of $710 million in Income tax expense (benefit) as a result of
these adjustments.          Fresh-Start Reporting Adjustments     
  In applying fresh-start reporting at July 10, 2009, which generally follows the provisions of ASC 805,  Business
Combinations  (ASC 805), we recorded the assets acquired and the liabilities assumed from Old GM at fair value except for deferred income taxes and certain liabilities associated with employee benefits. These adjustments are final and no
determinations of fair value are considered provisional. The significant assumptions related to the valuations of our assets and liabilities recorded in connection with fresh-start reporting are subsequently discussed.   
   Accounts and Notes Receivable       We recorded Accounts and notes receivable at their fair value of $12.2 billion, which resulted in a decrease of $79 million.       Inventory       We recorded Inventory at its fair value of $9.6 billion, which
was determined as follows:       

Finished goods were determined based on the estimated selling price of finished goods on hand less costs to sell including disposal and holding
period costs, and a reasonable profit margin on the selling and disposal effort for each specific category of finished goods being evaluated. Finished goods primarily include new vehicles, off-lease and company vehicles and service parts and
accessories;          

Work in process was determined based on the estimated selling price once completed less total costs to complete the manufacturing process, costs
to sell including disposal and holding period costs, a reasonable profit margin on the remaining manufacturing, selling and disposal effort; and      
         161

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

Raw materials were determined based on current replacement cost.      
  Compared to amounts recorded by Old GM, finished goods increased by $622 million, including elimination of Old GM s LIFO reserve of
$1.1 billion, work in process decreased by $555 million, raw materials decreased by $39 million and sundry items with nominal individual value decreased by $94 million.       Equipment on Operating Leases, Current and Non-Current       We recorded
Equipment on operating leases, current and non-current at its fair value of $3.9 billion, which was determined as follows: (1) automotive leases to daily rental car companies were determined based on the market value of comparable vehicles; and
(2) automotive retail leases were determined by discounting the expected future cash flows generated by the automotive retail leases including the estimated residual value of the vehicles when sold. Equipment on operating leases, current and
non-current increased from that recorded by Old GM by $93 million as a result of our determination of fair value.       Other
Current Assets and Deferred Income Taxes       We recorded Other current assets which included prepaid assets and other current
assets at their fair value of $1.5 billion and deferred income taxes of $487 million. These amounts are $69 million higher than the amounts recorded by Old GM.       Equity in Net Assets of Nonconsolidated Affiliates       We recorded Equity in
net assets of nonconsolidated affiliates at its fair value of $5.8 billion. Fair value of these investments was determined using discounted cash flow analyses, which included the following assumptions and estimates:   

Forecasted cash flows for the seven months ended December 31, 2009 and the years ending 2010 through 2013, which incorporated projected
sales volumes, product mixes, projected capital spending to support existing and future products, research and development of new products and technologies and anticipated changes in local market conditions;      

A terminal value, which was calculated by assuming a maintainable level of after-tax debt-free cash flow and multiplying it by a capitalization
factor that reflected the investor s WACC adjusted for the estimated long-term perpetual growth rate;          

A discount rate of 13.4% that considered various factors including risk premiums and tax rates to determine the investor s WACC given the
assumed capital structure of comparable companies; and          

The fair value of investment property and investments in affiliates was determined using market comparables.      
  Equity in net assets of nonconsolidated affiliates was higher than Old GM s by $3.8 billion as a result of our determination of fair
value.       Property       We recorded Property, which includes land, buildings and land improvements, machinery and equipment, construction in progress and special tools, at its fair value of $18.5 billion. Fair value was based on
the highest and best use of specific properties. To determine fair value we considered and applied three approaches:       

The market or sales comparison approach which relies upon recent sales or offerings of similar assets on the market to arrive at a probable
selling price. Certain adjustments were made to reconcile differences in attributes between the comparable sales and the appraised assets. This method was utilized for certain assets related to land, buildings and land improvements and information
technology.          

The cost approach which considers the amount required to construct or purchase a new asset of equal utility at current prices, with adjustments
in value for physical deterioration, functional obsolescence and economic obsolescence. This method was      
         162

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

primarily utilized for certain assets related to land, buildings and land improvements, leasehold interests, and the majority of our machinery and equipment and tooling. Economic obsolescence
represents a loss in value due to unfavorable external conditions such as the economics of our industry and was a factor in establishing fair value. Our machinery, equipment and special tools amounts, determined under the cost approach, were
adjusted for economic obsolescence. Due to the downturn in the automotive industry, significant excess capacity exists and the application of the cost approach generally requires the replacement cost of an asset to be adjusted for physical
deterioration, and functional and economic obsolescence. We estimated economic obsolescence as the difference between the discounted cash flows expected to be realized from our utilization of the assets as a group, compared to the initial estimate
of value from the cost approach method. We did not reduce any fixed asset below its liquidation in place value as a result of economic obsolescence; however the effects of economic obsolescence caused some of our fixed assets to be recorded at their
liquidation in place values.          

The income approach which considers value in relation to the present worth of future benefits derived from ownership, usually measured through
the capitalization of a specific level of income which can be derived from the subject asset. This method assumed fair value could not exceed the present value of the cash flows the assets generate discounted at a risk related rate of return
commensurate with the level of risk inherent in the subject asset. This method was used to value certain assets related to buildings and improvements, leasehold interest, machinery and equipment and tooling.      
  The following table summarizes the components of Property as a result of the application of fresh-start reporting at July 10, 2009
and Property, net at July 9, 2009:       
     Goodwill       We recorded Goodwill of $30.5 billion upon application of fresh-start reporting. When applying fresh-start reporting, certain accounts, primarily employee benefit and income tax related, were recorded at
amounts determined under specific U.S. GAAP rather than fair value and the difference between the U.S. GAAP and fair value amounts gives rise to goodwill, which is a residual. Further, we recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred
tax assets, which under ASC 852 also resulted in goodwill. Our employee benefit related accounts were recorded in accordance with ASC 712 and ASC 715 and deferred income taxes were recorded in accordance with ASC 740. None of the goodwill from this
transaction is deductible for tax purposes.       Intangible Assets    
  We recorded Intangible assets of $16.1 billion at their fair values. The following is a summary of the approaches used to determine the
fair value of our significant intangible assets:       

We recorded $7.9 billion for the fair value of technology. The relief from royalty method was used to calculate the $7.7 billion fair value of
developed technology. The significant assumptions used included:          

Forecasted revenue for each technology category by Old GM s former segments;      
         163

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

Royalty rates based on licensing arrangements for similar technologies and obsolescence factors by technology category;

Discount rates ranging from 24.0% to 26.0% based on our WACC and adjusted for perceived business risks related to these developed technologies;
and          

Estimated economic lives, which ranged from seven to 20 years.      

The excess earnings method was used to determine the fair value of in-process research and development of $175 million. The significant
assumptions used in this approach included:          

Forecasted revenue for certain technologies not yet proven to be commercially feasible;      

The probability and cost of obtaining commercial feasibility;      

Discount rates ranging from 4.2% (when the probability of obtaining commercial feasibility was considered elsewhere in the model) to 36.0%; and

Estimated economic lives ranging from approximately 10 to 20 years.      

The relief from royalty method was also used to calculate the fair value of brand names of $5.5 billion. The significant assumptions used in
this method included:          

Forecasted revenue for each brand name by Old GM s former segments;      

Royalty rates based on licensing arrangements for the use of brands and trademarks in the automotive industry and related industries;

Discount rates ranging from 22.8% to 27.0% based on our WACC and adjusted for perceived business risks related to these intangible assets; and

Indefinite economic lives for our ongoing brands.      

Our most significant brands included Buick, Cadillac, Chevrolet, GMC, Opel/Vauxhall and OnStar. We also recorded defensive intangible assets
associated with brands we eliminated, which included Pontiac, Saturn and Oldsmobile.          

A cost approach was used to calculate the fair value of our dealer networks and customer relationships of $2.1 billion. The estimated fair value
of our dealer networks of $1.6 billion was determined by multiplying our estimated costs to recreate our dealer networks by our estimate of an optimal number of dealers. An income approach was used to calculate the fair value of our customer
relationships of $508 million. The significant assumptions used in this approach included:          

Forecasted revenue;          

Customer retention rates;          

Profit margins; and          

A discount rate of 20.8% based on an appropriate WACC and adjusted for perceived business risks related to these customer relationships.

We recorded other intangible assets of $560 million primarily related to existing contracts, including leasehold improvements, that were
favorable relative to available market terms.      
         164

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes the components of our intangible assets and their
weighted-average amortization periods.       
     Deferred Income Taxes, Non-Current    
  We recorded Deferred income taxes, non-current of $672 million which was an increase of $43 million compared to that recorded by Old GM.
      Other Assets, Non-Current       We recorded Other assets, non-current of $3.2 billion. Other assets, non-current differed from Old GM s primarily related to: (1) an increase of $1.3 billion and $629 million in the value of our
investments in Ally Financial common stock and preferred stock; (2) an increase of $175 million in the value of our investment in Saab; partially offset by (3) an elimination of $191 million for certain prepaid rent balances and other
adjustments.      We calculated the fair value of our investment in Ally Financial common stock of $1.3 billion using a market
multiple sum-of-the-parts methodology, a market approach. This approach considered the average price/tangible book value multiples of companies deemed comparable to each of Ally Financial s Auto Finance, Commercial Finance and Insurance
operations in determining the fair value of each of these operations, which were then aggregated to determine Ally Financial s overall fair value. The significant inputs used in our fair value analysis were as follows:   

Ally Financial s June 30, 2009 financial statements, as well as the financial statements of comparable companies in the Auto Finance,
Commercial Finance and Insurance industries;          

Expected performance of Ally Financial, as well as our view on its ability to access capital markets; and      

The value of Ally Financial s mortgage operations, taking into consideration the continuing challenges in the housing markets and mortgage
industry, and its need for additional liquidity to maintain business operations.         We calculated the fair
value of our investment in Ally Financial preferred stock of $665 million using a discounted cash flow approach. The present value of the cash flows was determined using assumptions regarding the expected receipt of dividends on Ally Financial
preferred stock and the expected call date. The discount rate of 16.9% was determined based on yields of similar Ally Financial securities.       Accounts Payable       We recorded Accounts payable at its fair value of $13.1
billion.       Debt       We recorded short-term debt, current portion of long-term debt and long-term debt at their total fair value of $15.7 billion, which was calculated using a discounted cash flow methodology using our
implied credit rating of CCC for most of our debt instruments (our credit rating was not observable as a result of the Chapter 11 Proceedings), adjusted where appropriate for any security interests.
  
         165

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

For the UST Loans and the Canadian Loan, carrying amount was determined to approximate fair value because these loans were fully collateralized by the restricted cash placed in escrow and were
entered into on July 10, 2009 at market terms. Short-term debt, current portion of long-term debt and long-term debt decreased $1.5 billion as a result of our calculation of fair value. Refer to Note 15 for additional information on the escrow
arrangement.       Pensions, Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions, Current and Non-Current, and Prepaid Pensions
      We recorded Pensions of $32.0 billion and Prepaid pensions of $97 million, which includes the actuarial measurement of
those benefit plans that were not modified in connection with the 363 Sale. As a result of these actuarial measurements, our recorded value was $2.1 billion higher than Old GM s for Pensions and Prepaid pensions for those plans not modified in
connection with the 363 Sale. When the pension plans were measured at July 10, 2009, the weighted-average return on assets was 8.5% and 8.0% for U.S. and non-U.S. plans. The weighted-average discount rate utilized to measure the plans at
July 10, 2009 was 5.9% and 5.8% for U.S. and non-U.S. plans.      We also recorded Postretirement benefits other than
pensions, current and non-current of $20.4 billion, which is an increase of $434 million compared to the amounts recorded by Old GM for those plans not modified in connection with the 363 Sale. When the other non-UAW postretirement benefit plans
were measured at July 10, 2009, the weighted-average discount rate used was 6.0% and 5.5% for the U.S. and non-U.S. plans. For the U.S. there are no significant uncapped healthcare plans remaining at December 31, 2009, and therefore, the
healthcare cost trend rate does not have a significant effect on our U.S. plans. For non-U.S. plans the initial healthcare cost trend used was 5.4% and the ultimate healthcare cost trend rate was 3.3% with eight years to the ultimate trend rate.
      Accrued Liabilities, Other Liabilities, and Deferred Income Taxes, Current and Non-Current    
  We recorded Accrued liabilities of $24.4 billion and Other liabilities and deferred income taxes of $15.5 billion. Accrued liabilities
and Other liabilities differed from those of Old GM primarily relating to:       

$1.2 billion less in deferred revenue, the fair value of which was determined based on our remaining performance obligations considering future
costs associated with these obligations;          

$349 million decrease in warranty liability, the fair value of which was determined by discounting the forecasted future cash flows based on
historical claims experience using rates ranging from 1.4% in 2009 to 4.3% in 2017;          

A decrease of $179 million to lease-related obligations;      

A decrease of $162 million related to certain customer deposits;      

$582 million increase in deferred income taxes; and      

$980 million of recorded unfavorable contractual obligations, primarily related to the Delphi-GM Settlement Agreements. The fair value of the
unfavorable contractual obligations was determined by discounting forecasted cash flows representing the unfavorable portions of contractual obligations at our implied credit rating. Refer to Note 22 for further information on the Delphi-GM
Settlement Agreements.          Equity (Deficit) and Preferred Stock    
  The changes to Equity (Deficit) reflect our recapitalization, the elimination of Old GM s historical equity, the issuance of our
common stock, preferred stock and warrants to the UST, Canada Holdings and MLC at fair value, and the application of fresh-start reporting.   
         166

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Noncontrolling Interests    
  We recorded the fair value of our Noncontrolling interests at $408 million which was $156 million higher than Old GM.   
    363 Sale and Fresh-Start Reporting Adjustments        The following table summarizes Old GM s Reorganization gains, net, arising from the 363 Sale and fresh-start reporting that primarily resulted from the adjustments previously discussed (dollars in
millions):       

Predecessor   

January 1, 
2009     Through     July 9, 2009   

Change in net assets resulting from the application of fresh-start reporting   
      
  $  
  33,829  

Fair value of New GM s Series A Preferred Stock, common shares and warrants issued in 363 Sale   

20,532  

Gain from the conversion of debt owed to UST to equity   

31,561  

Gain from the conversion of debt owed to EDC to equity   

5,964  

Gain from the modification and measurement of our VEBA obligation   

7,731  

Gain from the modification and measurement of other employee benefit plans   

4,585  

Gain from the settlement of net liabilities retained by MLC via the 363 Sale   

25,177  

Income tax benefit for release of valuation allowances and other tax adjustments   

710  

Other 363 Sale adjustments   

(21  
  )    

Total adjustment from 363 Sale Transaction and fresh-start reporting   

130,068  

Adjustment recorded to Income tax benefit for release of valuation allowances and other tax adjustments   

(710  
  )    
 
    Other losses, net   

(1,203  
  )    

Total Reorganization gains, net   
      
  $  
  128,155  

Other losses, net of $1.2 billion primarily relate to costs incurred during our Chapter 11 Proceedings, including:       

Losses of $958 million on extinguishments of debt resulting from Old GM s repayment of its secured revolving credit facility, its U.S. term
loan, and its secured credit facility;          

Losses of $398 million on contract rejections, settlements of claims and other lease terminations;      

Professional fees of $38 million; and          

Gain of $247 million related to the release of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) associated with previously designated derivative
financial instruments.            Note 3. Basis of Presentation    
   Principles of Consolidation       The consolidated financial statements include our accounts and those of our subsidiaries that we control due to ownership of a majority voting interest. We continually evaluate our involvement with
variable interest entities (VIEs) to determine whether we have variable interests and are the primary beneficiary of the VIE. When this criteria is met, we are required to consolidate the VIE. Our share of earnings or losses of nonconsolidated
affiliates is included in our consolidated operating results using the equity method of accounting when we are able to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial decisions of the affiliate. We use the cost method of accounting
if we are not able to exercise significant influence over the operating and financial decisions of the affiliate. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Old GM utilized the same principles of consolidation
in its consolidated financial statements.   
         167

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Use of Estimates in the Preparation of the Financial Statements    
  The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP, which requires the use of estimates, judgments, and
assumptions that affect the amounts of assets and liabilities at the reporting date and the amounts of revenue and expenses in the periods presented. We believe that the accounting estimates employed are appropriate and the resulting balances are
reasonable; however, due to the inherent uncertainties in making estimates actual results could differ from the original estimates, requiring adjustments to these balances in future periods.       GM Financial       The assets and liabilities of GM Financial, our automotive
finance operations, are presented on a non-classified basis. The amounts presented for GM Financial have been adjusted to include the effect of our tax attributes on GM Financial s deferred tax positions and provision for income taxes since the
date of acquisition, which are not applicable to GM Financial on a stand-alone basis, and to eliminate the effect of transactions between GM Financial and the other members of the consolidated group. Accordingly, the amounts presented will differ
from those presented by GM Financial on a stand-alone basis.       Change in Segments    
  In the year ended December 31, 2010 we changed our managerial and financial reporting structure so that certain entities
geographically located within Russia and Uzbekistan were transferred from our GME segment to our GMIO segment and certain entities geographically located in Brazil, Argentina, Colombia, Ecuador, Venezuela, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay
were transferred from our GMIO segment to our newly created GMSA segment. We have retrospectively revised the segment presentation for all periods presented.       Change in Presentation of Financial Statements       In 2010, we changed the
presentation of our consolidated balance sheet, consolidated statement of cash flows and certain footnotes to combine line items which were either of a related nature or not individually material. We have made corresponding reclassifications to the
comparable information for all periods presented.       Stock Split    
  On October 5, 2010 our Board of Directors recommended a three-for-one stock split on shares of our common stock, which was approved
by our stockholders on November 1, 2010. The stock split was effected on November 1, 2010.      Each stockholder s
percentage ownership in us and proportional voting power remained unchanged after the stock split. All applicable Successor share, per share and related information in the consolidated financial statements and notes has been adjusted retroactively
to give effect to the three-for-one stock split.       Increase in Authorized Shares    
  On October 5, 2010, our Board of Directors recommended that we amend our Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of
shares of common stock that we are authorized to issue from 2.5 billion shares to 5.0 billion shares and to increase the number of preferred shares that we are authorized to issue from 1.0 billion shares to 2.0 billion shares. Our stockholders
approved these amendments on November 1, 2010, and they were effected on November 1, 2010.       Venezuelan Exchange Regulations
      Our Venezuelan subsidiaries changed their functional currency from Bolivar Fuerte (the BsF), the local currency, to the
U.S. Dollar, our reporting currency, on January 1, 2010 because of the hyperinflationary status of the Venezuelan economy. Pursuant   
         168

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

to the official devaluation of the Venezuelan currency and establishment of the dual fixed exchange rates (essential rate of BsF 2.60 to $1.00 and nonessential rate of BsF 4.30 to $1.00) in
January 2010, we remeasured the BsF denominated monetary assets and liabilities held by our Venezuelan subsidiaries at the nonessential rate of 4.30 BsF to $1.00. The remeasurement resulted in a charge of $25 million recorded in Automotive cost
of sales in the year ended December 31, 2010. In the year ended December 31, 2010 all BsF denominated transactions have been remeasured at the nonessential rate of 4.30 BsF to $1.00.   
  In June 2010 the Venezuelan government introduced additional foreign currency exchange control regulations, which imposed restrictions on
the use of the parallel foreign currency exchange market, thereby making it more difficult to convert BsF to U.S. Dollars. We periodically accessed the parallel exchange market, which historically enabled entities to obtain foreign currency for
transactions that could not be processed by the Commission for the Administration of Currency Exchange (CADIVI). The restrictions on the foreign currency exchange market could affect our Venezuelan subsidiaries  ability to pay non-BsF
denominated obligations that do not qualify to be processed by CADIVI at the official exchange rates as well as our ability to benefit from those operations.      In December 2010 another official devaluation of the Venezuelan currency was announced that eliminated the essential rate effective January 1, 2011. The devaluation did not have an effect on the 2010
consolidated financial statements, however, it will affect results of operations in subsequent years because our Venezuelan subsidiaries will no longer realize gains that result from favorable foreign currency exchanges processed by CADIVI at the
essential rate.      The following tables provide financial information for our Venezuelan subsidiaries at and for the year ended
December 31, 2010, which include amounts receivable from and payable to, and transactions with, affiliated entities (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Includes BsF denominated and non-BsF denominated monetary assets of $393 million and $527 million.     

(b)  
  Includes BsF denominated and non-BsF denominated monetary liabilities of $661 million and $324 million.     

(c)  
  Includes a gain of $119 million related to the devaluation of the BsF in January 2010 and a gain of $273 million in the year ended December 31, 2010 due to
favorable foreign currency exchanges that were processed by CADIVI at the essential rate. The $119 million gain on the devaluation was offset by a $144 million loss recorded by U.S. entities on BsF denominated assets, which is not included in the
Net income (loss) attributable to stockholders reported above.        The total amount pending government approval for
settlement at December 31, 2010 is BsF 1.9 billion (equivalent to $432 million), for which some requests have been pending from 2007. The amount includes payables to affiliated entities of $263 million, which includes dividends payable of $144
million.         Note 4. Significant Accounting Policies    
  In connection with our application of fresh-start reporting, we established a set of accounting policies which, unless otherwise
indicated, utilized the accounting policies of our predecessor entity, Old GM.   
         169

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The accounting policies which follow are utilized by our automotive and automotive
financing operations, unless otherwise indicated.       Revenue Recognition    
    Automotive        Automotive sales are primarily composed of revenue generated from the sale of vehicles. Vehicle sales are recorded when title and risks and rewards of ownership have passed, which is generally when a
vehicle is released to the carrier responsible for transporting it to a dealer and when collectability is reasonably assured. Provisions for recurring dealer and customer sales and leasing incentives, consisting of allowances and rebates, are
recorded as reductions to Automotive sales at the time of vehicle sales. All other incentives, allowances, and rebates related to vehicles previously sold are recorded as reductions to Automotive sales when announced.   
  Vehicle sales to daily rental car companies with guaranteed repurchase obligations are accounted for as operating leases. Estimated lease
revenue is recorded ratably over the estimated term of the lease based on the difference between net sales proceeds and the guaranteed repurchase amount. The difference between the cost of the vehicle and estimated residual value is depreciated on a
straight-line basis over the estimated term of the lease.      Sales of parts and accessories to GM dealers are recorded when the
goods arrive at the dealership and when collectability is reasonably assured. Sales of aftermarket products and powertrain components are recorded when title and risks and rewards of ownership have passed, which is generally when the product is
released to the carrier responsible for transporting them to the customer and when collectability is reasonably assured.   
  Revenue from OnStar, comprised of customer subscriptions related to comprehensive in-vehicle security, communications and diagnostic
systems, is deferred and recorded on a straight-line basis over the subscription period. An OnStar subscription is provided as part of the sale or lease of certain vehicles. The fair value of the subscription is recorded as deferred revenue when a
vehicle is sold, and amortized over the subscription period. Prepaid minutes for the Hands-Free Calling system are deferred and recorded on a straight-line basis over the life of the contract.   
  Payments received from banks for credit card programs in which there is a redemption liability are recorded on a straight-line basis over
the estimated period of time the customer will accumulate and redeem their rebate points. This time period is estimated to be 60 months for the majority of the credit card programs. This redemption period is reviewed periodically to determine if it
remains appropriate. The redemption liability anticipated to be paid to the dealer is estimated and accrued at the time specific vehicles are sold to the dealer. The redemption cost is classified as a reduction of Automotive sales.   
    Automotive Financing        Finance income earned on receivables is recognized using the effective interest method. Fees and commissions (including incentive payments) received and direct costs of originating loans are deferred and
amortized over the term of the related finance receivables using the effective interest method and are removed from the consolidated balance sheets when the related finance receivables are sold, charged off or paid in full. Accrual of finance charge
income is suspended on accounts that are more than 60 days delinquent, accounts in bankruptcy, and accounts in repossession.   
  Income from operating lease assets, which includes lease origination fees, net of lease origination costs, is recorded as operating lease
revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease agreement.   
         170

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Finance Receivables         Automotive Financing         Pre-Acquisition Finance Receivables
      Finance receivables originated prior to the acquisition of AmeriCredit were adjusted to fair value at October 1,
2010. As a result of the acquisition, the allowance for loan losses at October 1, 2010 was eliminated and a net discount was recorded on the receivables. A portion of the discount attributable to future credit losses is recorded as a
non-accretable discount and utilized as such losses occur. Any deterioration in the performance of pre-acquisition receivables, indicating that the non-accretable discount has become insufficient to cover future credit losses, in the pre-acquisition
portfolio, will result in an incremental allowance for loan losses being recorded. Improvements in performance of the pre-acquisition receivables, indicating that the non-accretable discount exceeds expected future credit losses will not be a direct
offset to charge-offs, but will result in a transfer of the excess non-accretable discount to accretable discount, which will be recorded as finance charge income over the remaining life of the receivables.   
  A portion of the fair value adjustment on the finance receivables is included as an accretable premium. This premium is accreted into
finance charge income over the remaining life of the receivables utilizing the effective interest method.       Post-Acquisition
Finance Receivables       Finance receivables originated after the acquisition of AmeriCredit are carried at amortized cost,
net of allowance for loan losses. Provisions for loan losses are charged to operations in amounts sufficient to maintain an allowance for loan losses at a level considered adequate to cover probable credit losses inherent in GM Financial s
post-acquisition finance receivables.      The allowance for loan losses is established systematically based on the determination
of the amount of probable credit losses inherent in the post-acquisition finance receivables as of the balance sheet date. We review charge-off experience factors, delinquency reports, historical collection rates, estimates of the value of the
underlying collateral, economic trends, such as unemployment rates, and other information in order to make the necessary judgments as to probable credit losses. We also use historical charge-off experience to determine a loss confirmation period,
which is defined as the time between when an event, such as delinquency status, giving rise to a probable credit loss occurs with respect to a specific account and when such account is charged off. This loss confirmation period is applied to the
forecasted probable credit losses to determine the amount of losses inherent in finance receivables at the balance sheet date.       Allowance
For Doubtful Accounts   Trade Receivables         Automotive     
  We estimate the balance of allowance for doubtful accounts by analyzing accounts receivable balances by age, and our estimate includes
separately providing for specific customer balances when it is deemed probable that the balance is uncollectible. Account balances are charged off against the allowance when it is probable the receivable will not be recovered.   
   Inventory    
    Automotive        Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market (LCM). In connection with fresh-start reporting, we elected to use the FIFO costing method for all inventories previously accounted for by Old GM
using the LIFO costing method.   
         171

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   Market, which represents selling price less cost to sell, considers general market and
economic conditions, periodic reviews of current profitability of vehicles, and the effect of current incentive offers at the balance sheet date. Market for off-lease and other vehicles is current auction sales proceeds less disposal and warranty
costs. Productive material, work in process, supplies and service parts are reviewed to determine if inventory quantities are in excess of forecasted usage, or if they have become obsolete.       Advertising       The following table summarizes advertising expenditures,
which are expensed as incurred (dollars in millions):       
     Research and Development
Expenditures         Automotive        The following table summarizes research and development expenditures, which are expensed as incurred (dollars in millions):   
   
     Property, net    
  Property, plants and equipment, including internal use software, is recorded at cost. Major improvements that extend the useful life or
add functionality of property are capitalized. Expenditures for repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred. We depreciate all depreciable property using the straight-line method. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the period
of lease or the life of the asset, whichever is shorter. For depreciable property placed in service before January 2001, Old GM used accelerated depreciation methods. For depreciable property placed in service after January 2001, Old GM used the
straight-line method. Upon retirement or disposition of property, plants and equipment, the cost and related accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and any resulting gain or loss is recorded in earnings. Impairment charges related to
property are recorded in Automotive cost of sales or GM Financial operating expenses and other. Refer to Notes 12 and 26 for additional information on property and impairments.       Special Tools         Automotive     
  Special tools represent product-specific powertrain and non-powertrain related tools, dies, molds and other items used in the vehicle
manufacturing process. Expenditures for special tools are recorded at cost and are capitalized. In connection with our application of fresh-start reporting, we began amortizing all non-powertrain special tools using an accelerated amortization
method. We amortize powertrain special tools over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. Old GM amortized all special tools using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. Refer to Note 12 for additional
information on special tools.   
         172

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Goodwill       Goodwill arises from the application of fresh-start reporting and acquisitions accounted for as business combinations. Goodwill is tested for impairment for all reporting units on an annual basis during
the fourth quarter, or more frequently, if events occur or circumstances change that would warrant such a review. An impairment charge is recorded for the amount, if any, by which the carrying amount of goodwill exceeds its implied fair value. Fair
values of reporting units are established using a discounted cash flow method. Our reporting units are GMNA, GME, GM Financial and various reporting units within the GMIO and GMSA segments. Due to the integrated nature of our manufacturing
operations and the sharing of vehicle platforms among brands, assets and other resources are shared extensively within GMNA and GME and financial information by brand or country is not discrete below the operating segment level such that GMNA and
GME do not contain reporting units below the operating segment level. GM Financial also does not contain reporting units below the operating segment level. GMIO and GMSA are less integrated given the lack of regional trade pacts and other unique
geographical differences and thus contain separate reporting units below the operating segment level. Where available and as appropriate, comparative market multiples and the quoted market price for our common stock are used to corroborate the
results of the discounted cash flow method. Goodwill would be reassigned on a relative-fair-value basis to a portion of a reporting unit to be disposed of or upon the reorganization of the composition of one or more of our reporting units, unless
the reporting unit was never integrated. Refer to Note 26 for additional information on goodwill impairments.       Intangible Assets, net
      Intangible assets, excluding Goodwill, primarily include brand names (including defensive intangibles associated with
discontinued brands), technology and intellectual property, customer relationships, dealer network and favorable contracts.   
  All intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line or an accelerated method of amortization over their estimated useful lives. An
accelerated amortization method reflecting the pattern in which the asset will be consumed is utilized if that pattern can be reliably determined. If that pattern cannot be reliably determined, a straight-line amortization method is used. We
consider the period of expected cash flows and underlying data used to measure the fair value of the intangible assets when selecting a useful life.      Amortization of developed technology and intellectual property is recorded in Automotive cost of sales. Amortization of brand names, customer relationships and our dealer network is recorded in Automotive
selling, general and administrative expense or GM Financial operating expenses and other. Refer to Notes 2 and 14 for additional information on intangible assets.       Valuation of Long-Lived Assets       The carrying amount of long-lived assets
and finite-lived intangible assets to be held and used in the business are evaluated for impairment when events and circumstances warrant. If the carrying amount of a long-lived asset group is considered impaired, a loss is recorded based on the
amount by which the carrying amount exceeds the fair value for the asset group to be held and used. Product-specific long-lived asset groups are tested for impairment at the platform level. Non-product specific long-lived assets are tested for
impairment on a segment basis in GMNA, GME, and GM Financial and tested at or within our various reporting units within our GMIO and GMSA segments. Assets classified as held for sale are recorded at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less
cost to sell. Fair value is determined primarily using the anticipated cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the risk involved. Long-lived assets to be disposed of other than by sale are considered held for use until disposition.
Product-specific assets may become impaired as a result of declines in profitability due to changes in volume, pricing or costs.      We tested certain long-lived assets for impairment in the year ended December 31, 2010 and in the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 and Old GM tested certain long-lived assets
for impairment in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 and in the year ended December 31, 2008. Long-lived asset impairment charges were recorded based on the results of the analyses. Refer to Note 26 for additional
information on impairment charges.   
         173

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Valuation of Cost and Equity Method Investments    
  When events and circumstances warrant, investments accounted for under the cost or equity method of accounting are evaluated for
impairment. An impairment charge is recorded whenever a decline in value of an investment below its carrying amount is determined to be other than temporary. In determining if a decline is other than temporary, factors such as the length of time and
extent to which the fair value of the investment has been less than the carrying amount of the investment, the near-term and longer-term operating and financial prospects of the affiliate and the intent and ability to hold the investment for a
period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery are considered. Impairment charges related to equity method investments are recorded in Equity income, net of tax. Impairment charges related to cost method investments are recorded in
Interest income and other non-operating income, net.       Equipment on Operating Leases, net    
  Equipment on operating leases, net, including leased vehicles within Total GM Financial Assets, is reported at cost, less accumulated
depreciation and net of origination fees or costs. Estimated income from operating lease assets, which includes lease origination fees, net of lease origination costs, is recorded as operating lease revenue on a straight-line basis over the term of
the lease agreement. Depreciation of vehicles is provided on a straight-line basis to an estimated residual value over the term of the lease agreement.      We have and Old GM had significant investments in vehicles in operating lease portfolios, which are comprised of vehicle leases to retail customers with lease terms of up to 60 months and vehicles leased
to rental car companies with lease terms that average nine months or less. We are and Old GM was exposed to changes in the residual values of those assets. For impairment purposes, the residual values represent estimates of the values of the assets
at the end of the lease contracts and are determined based on the lower of forecasted or current auction proceeds in the U.S. and Canada and forecasted auction proceeds outside of the U.S. and Canada when there is a reliable basis to make such a
determination. Realization of the residual values is dependent on the future ability to market the vehicles under the prevailing market conditions. The adequacy of the estimate of the residual value is evaluated over the life of the lease and
adjustments may be made to the extent the expected value of the vehicle at lease termination changes. Adjustments may be in the form of revisions to the depreciation rate or recognition of an impairment charge. Impairment is determined to exist if
the undiscounted expected future cash flows, which include estimated residual values, are lower than the carrying amount of the asset. If the carrying amount is considered impaired, an impairment charge is recorded for the amount by which the
carrying amount exceeds the fair value. Fair value is determined primarily using the anticipated cash flows, including estimated residual values.      In our automotive operations, when a leased vehicle is returned the asset is reclassified from Equipment on operating leases, net to Inventories at the lower of cost or estimated selling price, less costs
to sell. In our automotive finance operations, when a leased vehicle is returned or repossessed the asset is recorded at the lower of cost or estimated selling price, less costs to sell, and upon disposition a gain or loss is recorded for any
difference between the net book value of the lease and the proceeds from the disposition of the asset.      Impairment charges
related to Equipment on operating leases, net are recorded in Automotive cost of sales or GM Financial operating expenses and other. Refer to Notes 26 and 32 for additional information on impairments and operating lease arrangements with Ally
Financial.       Foreign Currency Transactions and Translation       The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, that use the local currency as their functional currency, are translated to U.S. Dollars based on the current exchange rate prevailing at each balance
sheet date and any resulting translation adjustments are included in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries whose local currency is not their functional currency are remeasured from their
local currency to their functional currency, and then translated to U.S. Dollars. Revenues and expenses are translated into U.S. Dollars using the average exchange rates prevailing for each period presented.   
         174

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   Gains and losses arising from foreign currency transactions, which include the effects
of remeasurements discussed in the preceding paragraph, are recorded in Automotive cost of sales and GM Financial operating expenses and other.      The following table summarizes the effects of foreign currency transactions (dollars in millions):       
     Policy, Warranty and Recall
Campaigns         Automotive        The estimated costs related to policy and product warranties are accrued at the time products are sold. These estimates are established using historical information on the nature, frequency, and average
cost of claims of each vehicle line or each model year of the vehicle line. Revisions are made when necessary, based on changes in these factors. Trends of claims are actively studied and actions are taken to improve vehicle quality and minimize
claims.      The estimated costs related to product recalls based on a formal campaign soliciting return of that product are
accrued when they are deemed to be probable and can be reasonably estimated.       Environmental Costs    
    Automotive        A liability for environmental remediation costs is recorded when a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. For environmental sites where there are potentially multiple responsible parties, a
liability for the allocable share of the costs related to involvement with the site is recorded, as well as an allocable share of costs related to insolvent parties or unidentified shares, neither of which are reduced for possible recoveries from
insurance carriers. For environmental sites where we and Old GM are the only potentially responsible parties, a liability is recorded for the total estimated costs of remediation before consideration of recovery from insurers or other third parties.
The process of estimating environmental remediation liabilities is complex and dependent primarily on the nature and extent of historical information and physical data relating to a contaminated site, the complexity of the site, the uncertainty as
to what remediation and technology will be required, and the outcome of discussions with regulatory agencies and other potentially responsible parties at multi-party sites.      We have an established process to develop environmental liabilities that is used globally. This process consists of a number of phases that begins with visual site inspections and an examination of
historical site records. Once a potential problem is identified, physical sampling of the site, which may include analysis of ground water and soil borings, is performed. The evidence obtained is then evaluated and if necessary, a remediation
strategy is developed and submitted to the appropriate regulatory body for approval. The final phase of this process involves the commencement of remediation activities according to the approved plan.   
  When applicable, estimated liabilities for costs relating to ongoing operating, maintenance, and monitoring at environmental sites where
remediation has commenced are recorded. Subsequent adjustments to initial estimates are recorded as necessary based upon additional information obtained. In future periods, new laws or regulations, advances in remediation technologies and additional
information about the ultimate remediation methodology to be used could significantly change our estimates.   
         175

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Cash Equivalents       Cash equivalents are defined as short-term, highly-liquid investments with original maturities of 90 days or less.       Fair Value Measurements       A three-level valuation hierarchy is used for
fair value measurements. The three-level valuation hierarchy is based upon observable and unobservable inputs. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect market assumptions based on the
best evidence available. These three types of inputs create the following fair value hierarchy:       

Level 1   Quoted prices for  identical  instruments in active markets;      

Level 2   Quoted prices for  similar  instruments in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets
that are not active; and model-derived valuations whose significant inputs are observable; and          

Level 3   Instruments whose significant inputs are  unobservable .      
  Financial instruments are transferred in and/or out of Level 3 in the valuation hierarchy at the beginning of the accounting period based
upon the significance of the unobservable inputs to the overall fair value measurement. Level 3 financial instruments typically include, in addition to the unobservable inputs, observable components that are validated to external sources.
      Marketable Securities       We classify marketable securities as available-for-sale or trading. Various factors, including turnover of holdings and investment guidelines, are considered in determining the classification of
securities. Available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value with unrealized gains and losses recorded, net of related income taxes, in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until realized. Trading securities are recorded at fair
value with changes in fair value recorded in Interest income and other non-operating income, net. We determine realized gains and losses for all securities using the specific identification method.   
  Old GM classified all marketable securities as available-for-sale.   
  Securities are classified in Level 1 when quoted prices in an active market for identical securities are available. If quoted market
prices are not available, fair values of securities are determined using prices from a pricing vendor, pricing models, quoted prices of securities with similar characteristics or discounted cash flow models and are generally classified in Level 2.
These prices represent non-binding quotes. U.S. government and agency securities, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, and corporate debt securities are classified in Level 2. Our pricing vendor utilizes industry-standard pricing models that
consider various inputs, including benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads and benchmark securities as well as other relevant economic measures. Securities are classified in Level 3 in certain cases where there are
unobservable inputs to the valuation in the marketplace.      We conduct an annual review of our pricing vendor. This review
includes discussion and analysis of the inputs used by the pricing vendor to provide prices for the types of securities we hold. These inputs included interest rate yields, bid/ask quotes, prepayment speeds and prices for comparable securities.
Based on our review we believe the prices received from our pricing vendor are a reliable representation of fair value.      An
evaluation is made monthly to determine if unrealized losses related to non-trading investments in debt and equity securities are other than temporary. Factors considered in determining whether a loss on a debt security is other than temporary
include: (1) the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been below cost; (2) the financial condition and near-term prospects of the issuer; and (3) the intent to sell or likelihood to be forced to sell the security
before any anticipated recovery. Prior to April 1, 2009 Old GM   
         176

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

considered its ability and intent to hold the investment for a sufficient period of time to allow for any anticipated recovery. If losses are determined to be other than temporary, the loss is
recorded in Interest income and other non-operating income, net and the investment carrying amount is adjusted to a revised fair value.   
   Derivative Instruments    
  We are party to a variety of foreign currency exchange rate, interest rate swap, interest rate cap and commodity derivative contracts
entered into in connection with the management of exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices.      Our financial risk management program is under the responsibility of the Risk Management Committee, which reviews and, where appropriate, approves strategies to be pursued to mitigate these risks. The
Risk Management Committee is composed of members of our management and functions under the oversight of the Finance and Risk Committee, a committee of the Board of Directors. The Finance and Risk Committee assists and guides the Board in its
oversight of our financial and risk management strategies. A risk management control framework is utilized to monitor the strategies, risks and related hedge positions, in accordance with the policies and procedures approved by the Risk Management
Committee.      In August 2010 we changed our automotive operations risk management policy with respect to foreign exchange and
commodities. Under our prior policy we intended to reduce volatility of forecasted cash flows primarily through the use of forward contracts and swaps. The intent of the new policy is to protect against risk arising from extreme adverse market
movements on our key exposures and involves a shift to greater use of purchased options.      GM Financial is exposed to market
risks arising from adverse changes in interest rates due to floating interest rate exposure on its credit facilities and on certain securitization notes payable. GM Financial s special purpose entities (SPEs) are contractually required to
purchase derivative instruments as credit enhancements in connection with securitization transactions and credit facilities. These financial exposures and contractual requirements are managed in accordance with corporate policies and procedures and
a risk management control system is used to assist in monitoring hedging programs, derivative positions and hedging strategies. Hedging documentation includes hedging objectives, practices and procedures and the related accounting treatment.
     The accounting for changes in the fair value of each derivative financial instrument depends on whether it has been
designated and qualifies as an accounting hedge, as well as the type of hedging relationship identified. Derivative financial instruments entered into by our automotive operations are not designated in hedging relationships. Certain of the
derivatives entered into by GM Financial have been designated in cash flow hedging relationships. Derivatives that receive hedge accounting treatment are evaluated for effectiveness at the time they are designated as well as throughout the hedging
period. We do not hold derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes.      All derivatives are recorded at fair value
and presented gross in the consolidated balance sheets. Internal models are used to value a majority of derivatives. The models use, as their basis, readily observable market inputs, such as time value, forward interest rates, volatility factors,
and current and forward market prices for commodities and foreign currency exchange rates. Derivative contracts that are valued based upon models with significant unobservable market inputs, primarily estimated forward and prepayment rates, are
classified in Level 3.      The valuation of derivative liabilities takes into account our nonperformance risk. At
December 31, 2010 and 2009 our nonperformance risk was not observable through a liquid credit default swap market. Our nonperformance risk was estimated using internal analysis to develop conclusions on our implied credit rating, which we used
to determine the appropriate credit spread, which would be applied to us by market participants. Prior to receiving published credit ratings we developed our credit rating conclusions using an analysis of comparable industrial companies. At
December 31, 2010 we incorporated published credit agency ratings of GM into our credit rating conclusions. At December 31, 2009 all derivatives whose fair values contained a significant credit adjustment based on our nonperformance risk
were classified in Level 3. At December 31, 2010 we have determined that our non-performance   
         177

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

risk no longer represents a significant input in the determination of the fair value of our derivatives. Consequently, at December 31, 2010 all automotive operations derivatives were
reclassified to Level 2.      We record the earnings effect resulting from the change in fair value of automotive operations
derivative instruments in Interest income and other non-operating income, net. We record the earnings effect resulting from the change in fair value of derivative instruments entered into by GM Financial in GM Financial operating expenses and other.
     Effective changes in fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in Cash flow hedging gain (losses)
within a separate component of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Amounts are reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) when the underlying hedged item affects earnings. All ineffective changes in fair value are
recorded in earnings. We also discontinue hedge accounting prospectively when it is determined that a derivative instrument has ceased to be effective as an accounting hedge or if the underlying hedged cash flow is no longer probable of occurring.
     Prior to October 1, 2008, Old GM recorded changes in fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges in
earnings offset by changes in fair value of the hedged item to the extent the derivative was effective as a hedge. Old GM recorded the change in fair value of derivative instruments in the same line item in the consolidated statements of operations
as the underlying exposure being hedged.      As part of Old GM s quarterly tests for hedge effectiveness in the three months
ended December 31, 2008, Old GM was unable to conclude that its cash flow and fair value hedging relationships continued to be highly effective. Therefore, Old GM discontinued the application of hedge accounting for derivative instruments used
in cash flow and fair value hedging relationships. Old GM recorded certain releases of deferred gains and losses arising from previously designated cash flow and fair value hedges in earnings. The earnings effect resulting from the change in fair
value of derivative instruments was recorded in the same line item in the consolidated statements of operations as the underlying exposure being hedged.      We enter into contracts with counterparties that we believe are creditworthy and generally settle on a net basis. We perform a quarterly assessment of our counterparty credit risk, including a review of
credit ratings, credit default swap rates and potential nonperformance of the counterparty. Based on our most recent quarterly assessment of our counterparty credit risk, we consider this risk to be low.   
  The cash flows from derivative instruments are classified in the same categories as the hedged items in the consolidated statement of
cash flows.      Refer to Note 21 for additional information related to derivative transactions.   
   Income Taxes       The
liability method is used in accounting for income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements,
using the statutory tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recorded in the results of operations in the period that includes
the enactment date under the law.      Deferred income tax assets are evaluated quarterly to determine if valuation allowances are
required or should be adjusted. We establish and Old GM established valuation allowances for deferred tax assets based on a more likely than not standard. The ability to realize deferred tax assets depends on the ability to generate sufficient
taxable income within the carryback or carryforward periods provided for in the tax law for each applicable tax jurisdiction. We consider and Old GM considered the following possible sources of taxable income when assessing the realization of
deferred tax assets:       

Future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences;      

Future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards;      
         178

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

Taxable income in prior carryback years; and          

Tax-planning strategies.         The assessment regarding whether a valuation allowance is required or should be adjusted also considers all available positive and negative evidence factors, including but not limited to:   

Nature, frequency, and severity of recent losses;      

Duration of statutory carryforward periods;          

Historical experience with tax attributes expiring unused; and      

Near- and medium-term financial outlook;         Concluding a valuation allowance is not required is difficult when there is significant negative evidence that is objective and verifiable, such as cumulative losses in recent years. We utilize and Old GM
utilized a rolling three years of actual and current year anticipated results as the primary measure of cumulative losses in recent years, as adjusted for non-recurring matters.   
  Income tax expense (benefit) for the year is allocated between continuing operations and other categories of income such as Discontinued
operations or other comprehensive income (loss). In periods in which there is a pre-tax loss from continuing operations and pre-tax income in another income category, the tax benefit allocated to continuing operations is determined by taking into
account the pre-tax income of other categories.      We record interest and penalties on uncertain tax positions in Income tax
expense (benefit). Old GM recorded interest income on uncertain tax positions in Interest income and other non-operating income, net, interest expense in Automotive interest expense and penalties in Automotive selling, general and administrative
expense.       Pension and Other Postretirement Plans         Attribution, Methods and Assumptions        The cost of benefits provided
by defined benefit pension plans is recorded in the period employees provide service. The cost of pension plan amendments that provide for benefits already earned by plan participants is amortized over the expected period of benefit which may be:
(1) the duration of the applicable collective bargaining agreement specific to the plan; (2) expected future working lifetime; or (3) the life expectancy of the plan participants.   
  The cost of medical, dental, legal service and life insurance benefits provided through postretirement benefit plans is recorded in the
period employees provide service. The cost of postretirement plan amendments that provide for benefits already earned by plan participants is amortized over the expected period of benefit which may be the average period to full eligibility or the
average life expectancy of the plan participants.      U.S. salaried retiree medical plan amendments are amortized over the period
to full eligibility and actuarial gains and losses are amortized over the average remaining years of future service.   
  Actuarial (gains) losses and new prior service costs (credits) for the U.S. hourly healthcare plans are amortized over a time period
corresponding with the average life expectancy of the plan participants.   
         179

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   An expected return on plan asset methodology is utilized to calculate future pension
expense for certain significant funded benefit plans. A market-related value of plan assets methodology is also utilized that averages gains and losses on the plan assets over a period of years to determine future pension expense. The methodology
recognizes 60.0% of the difference between the fair value of assets and the expected calculated value in the first year and 10.0% of that difference over each of the next four years.   
  The discount rate assumption is established for each of the retirement-related benefit plans at their respective measurement dates. In
the U.S. and Canada, we use a cash flow matching approach that uses projected cash flows matched to spot rates along a high quality corporate yield curve to determine the present value of cash flows to calculate a single equivalent discount rate.
     In the U.S., Old GM established a discount rate assumption to reflect the yield of a hypothetical portfolio of high quality,
fixed-income debt instruments that would produce cash flows sufficient in timing and amount to satisfy projected future benefits.      In countries other than the U.S. and Canada, discount rates are established depending on the local financial markets, using a high quality yield curve based on local bonds, a yield curve adjusted to
reflect local conditions using foreign currency swaps or local actuarial standards.        Plan Asset Valuation
        Cash Equivalents and Other Short-Term Investments    
  Money market funds and other similar short-term investment funds are valued using the net asset value per share (NAV) as provided by the
investment sponsor or third party administrator. Prices for short-term debt securities are received from independent pricing services or from dealers who make markets in such securities. Independent pricing services utilize matrix pricing which
considers readily available inputs such as the yield or price of bonds of comparable quality, coupon, maturity and type as well as dealer supplied prices. Cash equivalents and other short-term investments are generally classified in Level 2.
      Group Annuity Contracts       Group annuity contracts are the contracts or policies issued by a life insurance company, which are used as a funding instrument for specified benefits payments to be made in accordance with the defined
benefit pension plans. The contracts or policies may be backed by one or more separately managed investment accounts, which hold investments in high quality fixed income securities. The value of each contract or policy depends, in part, on the
values of the units of the separately managed investment accounts backing the contract. The fair value of the separately managed investment account assets is based on the fair value of the underlying assets owned by the separately managed investment
accounts. The separately managed investment accounts, which typically calculate NAV (or its equivalent), and underlying assets are valued in accordance with the valuation policies of the respective insurers. From time to time, the defined benefit
pension plans  liabilities may increase as a result of these contracts when the required reserves, as estimated by an insurer under the terms of the contract or policy, exceed the fair value of contract assets. The resulting difference
represents an outstanding contract asset deficiency that must be funded by the defined benefit pension plan s sponsor. Group annuity contracts are generally classified in Level 3.   
   Common and Preferred Stock       Equity securities for which market quotations are readily available are valued at the last reported sale price or official closing price as reported by an independent pricing service on the primary market
or exchange on which they are traded and are classified in Level 1. In the event there were no sales during the five-day period before the reporting date and the five-day period after the reporting date or closing prices are not available,
securities are valued at the last quoted bid price or may be valued using the last available price and are typically classified in Level 2. Common and preferred stock classified in Level 3 are typically those that are thinly traded, delisted, or
privately issued securities or other issues that are priced by a dealer or pricing service using inputs such as   
         180

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

aged (stale) pricing, and/or other qualitative factors. We may consider other security attributes such as liquidity and market activity in assessing the observability of inputs used by pricing
services or dealers, which may affect classification in the fair value hierarchy.       Government, Agency and Corporate Debt
Securities       U.S. government and government agency obligations, foreign government and government agency obligations,
municipal securities, supranational obligations, corporate bonds, bank notes, floating rate notes, and preferred securities are valued based on quotations received from independent pricing services or from dealers who make markets in such
securities. Pricing services utilize matrix pricing which considers readily available inputs such as the yield or price of bonds of comparable quality, coupon, maturity and type as well as dealer supplied prices and are generally classified in Level
2. Securities within this asset class that are classified in Level 3 are typically priced by dealers and pricing services that use proprietary pricing models which incorporate unobservable inputs. These inputs primarily consist of yield and credit
spread assumptions. We may consider other security attributes such as liquidity, market activity, price level, credit ratings and geo-political risk in assessing the observability of inputs used by pricing services or dealers, which may affect
classification.       Agency and Non-Agency Mortgage and Other Asset-Backed Securities    
  U.S. and foreign government agency mortgage and asset-backed securities, non-agency collateralized mortgage obligations, commercial
mortgage securities, residential mortgage securities and other asset-backed securities are valued based on quotations received from independent pricing services or from dealers who make markets in such securities. Pricing services utilize matrix
pricing which considers prepayment speed assumptions, attributes of the collateral, yield or price of bonds of comparable quality, coupon, maturity and type as well as dealer supplied prices and are generally classified in Level 2. Securities within
this asset class that are classified in Level 3 are typically priced by dealers and pricing services that use proprietary pricing models which incorporate unobservable inputs. These inputs primarily consist of prepayment curves, discount rates,
default assumptions and recovery rates. We may consider other security attributes such as liquidity, market activity, price level, credit ratings and geo-political risk in assessing the observability of inputs used by pricing services or dealers,
which may affect classification.       Investment Funds, Private Equity and Debt Investments and Real Estate Investments
      Exchange traded funds and real estate investment trusts, for which market quotations are readily available, are valued at
the last reported sale price or official closing price as reported by an independent pricing service on the primary market or exchange on which they are traded and are classified in Level 1. Investments in non-exchange traded funds and certain SPEs
(e.g., limited partnerships, limited liability companies), which may be fully redeemed at NAV in the near-term (within 90 days), are generally measured at fair value on the basis of the NAV provided by the investment sponsor or its third party
administrator, and generally classified in Level 2. Investments within this asset class that are classified in Level 3 include investments in funds, which may not be fully redeemed at NAV in the near-term, and are typically measured on the basis of
the NAV. Level 3 investments also include direct private equity, debt, and real estate investments, which have inherent restrictions on near-term redemption. Fair value estimates for direct private equity, private debt, and real estate investments
are provided by the respective investment sponsors and are subsequently reviewed and approved by management. In the event management concludes a reported NAV or fair value estimate (collectively, external valuation) does not reflect fair value or is
not determined as of the financial reporting measurement date, we will consider whether an adjustment is necessary. In determining whether an adjustment to the external valuation is required, we will review material factors that could affect the
valuation, such as changes to the composition or performance of the underlying investment(s) or comparable investments, overall market conditions, and other economic factors that may possibly have a favorable or unfavorable effect on the reported
external valuation. We may adjust the external valuation to ensure fair value as of the balance sheet date.       Derivatives
      Exchange traded derivatives, for which market quotations are readily available, are valued at the last reported sale
price or official closing price as reported by an independent pricing service on the primary market or exchange on which they are traded and are   
         181

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

classified in Level 1. Over-the-counter derivatives are typically valued through independent pricing services and are generally classified in Level 2. Derivatives classified in Level 3 are
typically priced by dealers and pricing services that use proprietary pricing models which incorporate unobservable inputs. These inputs include extrapolated or model-derived assumptions such as volatilities and yield and credit spread assumptions.
     Due to the lack of timely available market information for certain investments in the asset classes described above as well
as the inherent uncertainty of valuation, reported fair values may differ from fair values that would have been used had timely available market information been available.       Early Retirement Programs       An early retirement program was offered to
certain German employees that allows these employees to transition from employment into retirement before their legal retirement age. Eligible employees who elect to participate in this pre-retirement leave program work full time in half of the
pre-retirement period, the active period, and then do not work for the remaining half, the inactive period, and receive 50.0% of their salary in this pre-retirement period. Program related benefits are recognized over the period from when the
employee signed the program contract until the end of the employee s active service period.       Extended Disability Benefits
      Estimated extended disability benefits are accrued ratably over the employee s active service period using
measurement provisions similar to those used to measure our other postretirement benefits (OPEB) obligations. The liability is composed of the future obligations for income replacement, healthcare costs and life insurance premiums for employees
currently disabled and those in the active workforce who may become disabled. Future disabilities are estimated in the current workforce using actuarial methods based on historical experience. We record actuarial gains and losses immediately in
earnings. Old GM amortized net actuarial gains and losses over the remaining duration of the obligation.       Labor Force    
  On a worldwide basis, we have and Old GM had a concentration of the workforce working under the guidelines of unionized collective
bargaining agreements. At December 31, 2010 49,000 of our U.S. employees (or 64%) were represented by unions, of which 48,000 employees were represented by the UAW. The current labor contract with the UAW is effective for a four-year term that began
in October 2007 and expires in September 2011. The contract included a $3,000 lump sum payment in the year ended December 31, 2007 and performance bonuses of 3.0%, 4.0% and 3.0% of wages in the years ended December 31, 2008, 2009 and 2010
for each UAW employee. These payments are amortized over the 12-month period following the respective payment dates. In February 2009 Old GM and the UAW agreed to suspend the 2009 and 2010 performance bonus payments.   
   Job Security Programs    
  In May 2009 Old GM and the UAW entered into an agreement that suspended the Job Opportunity Bank (JOBS) Program, modified the
Supplemental Unemployment Benefit (SUB) program and added the Transitional Support Program (TSP). These job security programs provide employee reduced wages and continued coverage under certain employee benefit programs depending on the
employee s classification as well as the number of years of service that the employee has accrued. A similar tiered benefit is provided to CAW employees. We recognize a liability for these SUB/TSP benefits over the expected service period of
employees, based on our best estimate of the probable liability at the measurement date.      Prior to the implementation of the
modified job security programs, costs for postemployment benefits to hourly employees idled on an other than temporary basis were accrued based on our best estimate of the wage, benefit and other costs to be incurred, and costs related to the
temporary idling of employees were expensed as incurred.   
         182

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Stock Incentive Plans         GM        We measure and record compensation expense for all share-based
payment awards based on the award s estimated fair value. We grant awards to our employees through the 2009 Long Term Incentive Plan and the GM Salary Stock Plan. We record compensation expense over the applicable vesting period of an award.
     In November and December 2010 we consummated a public offering of 550 million shares of our common stock. Prior to this
offering, the fair value of awards granted was based on the estimated fair value of our common stock. Commencing in November 2010 the fair value of our common stock is based on the New York Stock Exchange trading price. Refer to Note 31 for
additional information regarding stock incentive plans.      Salary stock awards granted are fully vested and nonforfeitable upon
grant, therefore compensation cost is recorded on the date of grant.        Old GM     
  All of Old GM s awards for the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009, and the year ended December 31, 2008 were
accounted for at fair value, and compensation expense was recorded based on the award s estimated fair value. No share-based compensation expense was recorded for the top 25 most highly compensated employees in 2009, in compliance with the Loan
and Security Agreement with the UST.      Stock options granted were measured on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option-pricing model to determine fair value. Compensation expense was recorded on a graded vesting schedule. Old GM issued treasury shares upon exercise of employee stock options.   
  Option awards contingent on performance and market conditions were measured on the date of grant using a Monte-Carlo simulation model to
determine fair value. Vesting was contingent upon a one-year service period and multiple performance and market requirements and was recorded on a graded vesting schedule over a weighted-average derived service period.   
  Market condition based cash-settled awards were granted to participants based on a minimum percentile ranking of Old GM s total
stockholder return compared to all other companies in the S P 500 for the same performance period. The fair value of each market condition based cash-settled award was estimated on the date of grant, and for each subsequent reporting period,
remeasured using a Monte-Carlo simulation model that used multiple input variables.      Cash restricted stock units were granted
to certain of Old GM s global executives that provided cash equal to the value of underlying restricted share units at predetermined vesting dates. Compensation expense was recorded on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for
each separately vesting portion of the award. The fair value of each cash-settled award was remeasured at the end of each reporting period, and the liability and related expense adjusted based on the new fair value of Old GM s common stock.
     All outstanding Old GM awards remained with Old GM and we did not replace them in the 363 Sale.   
   Recently Adopted Accounting Principles         Variable Interest Entities        In January 2010 we adopted amendments
to ASC 810,  Consolidation  (ASC 810). These amendments require an enterprise to qualitatively assess the determination of the primary beneficiary of a VIE based on whether the enterprise: (1) has the power to direct
  
         183

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

the activities of a VIE that most significantly affect the entity s economic performance; and (2) has the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from
the entity that could potentially be significant to the VIE. These amendments also require, among other considerations, an ongoing reconsideration of the primary beneficiary. In February 2010 the Financial Accounting Standard Board (FASB) issued
guidance that permitted an indefinite deferral of these amendments for entities that have all the attributes of an investment company or that apply measurement principles consistent with those followed by investment companies. An entity that
qualifies for the deferral will continue to be assessed under the overall guidance on the consolidation of VIE s in effect prior to the adoption of these amendments. This deferral was applicable to certain investment companies associated with
our employee benefit plans and investment companies managing investments on behalf of unrelated third parties.      The amendments
were adopted prospectively. Upon adoption, we consolidated General Motors Egypt (GM Egypt). Due to our application of fresh-start reporting on July 10, 2009 and because our investment in GM Egypt was accounted for using the equity method of
accounting, there was no difference between the net assets added to the consolidated balance sheet upon consolidation and the amount of previously recorded interest in GM Egypt. As a result, there is no cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle to Accumulated deficit. However, the consolidation of GM Egypt resulted in an increase in Total assets of $254 million, an increase in Total liabilities of $178 million, and an increase in Noncontrolling interest of $76 million. The effect
of these amendments was measured based on the amount at which the asset, liability and noncontrolling interest would have been carried or recorded in the consolidated financial statements if these amendments had been effective since inception of our
relationship with GM Egypt. Refer to Note 17 for additional information regarding the effect of the adoption of these amendments.        Transfers of Financial Assets        In January 2010 we adopted certain
amendments to ASC 860,  Transfer and Servicing  (ASC 860). ASC 860 eliminated the concept of a qualifying SPE, establishes a new definition of participating interest that must be met for transfers of portions of financial assets to be
eligible for sale accounting, clarifies and amends the derecognition criteria for a transfer of financial assets to be accounted for as a sale, and changes the amount that can be recorded as a gain or loss on a transfer accounted for as a sale when
beneficial interests are received by the transferor. The adoption of these amendments did not have an effect on the consolidated financial statements.       Accounting Standards Not Yet Adopted       In September 2009 the FASB issued
Accounting Standard Update (ASU) 2009-13,  Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements  (ASU 2009-13). ASU 2009-13 addresses the unit of accounting for multiple-element arrangements. In addition, ASU 2009-13 revises the method by which
consideration is allocated among the units of accounting. Specifically, the overall consideration is allocated to each deliverable by establishing a selling price for individual deliverables based on a hierarchy of evidence, involving
vendor-specific objective evidence, other third party evidence of the selling price, or the reporting entity s best estimate of the selling price of individual deliverables in the arrangement. ASU 2009-13 will be effective prospectively for
revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. ASU 2009-13 is not expected to have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.   
  In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-28,  Intangibles Goodwill and Other: When to Perform Step 2 of the Goodwill
Impairment Test for Reporting Units with Zero or Negative Carrying Amounts  (ASU 2010-28). The amendments in this ASU modify Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting
units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test if it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. ASU 2010-28 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after
December 15, 2010. Any resulting goodwill impairment is recorded as a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning Retained earnings (accumulated deficit) in the period of adoption.   
  GME has a negative carrying amount; as such, we will apply the provisions of ASU 2010-28 effective January 1, 2011. When a reduction
occurs in the fair-value-to-U.S. GAAP differences attributable to those assets and liabilities that gave rise to goodwill upon   
         184

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

our application of fresh-start reporting, the amount of our implied goodwill can decline. Prior to the adoption of ASU 2010-28, any such decline does not result in recognition of an impairment
loss as long as Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test is passed (as was the case at our October 1, 2010 annual testing date). However, proceeding directly to Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test as required in this circumstance upon adoption
of ASU 2010-28 would result in recognition of any such impairment.      We are currently in the process of valuing the amount of
the implied goodwill as of January 1, 2011 for GME, and estimate the high end of the range of possible adjustment to be approximately $1.3 billion. Our estimate represents the net decrease, from July 10, 2009 through January 1, 2011,
in the fair-value-to-U.S. GAAP differences attributable to those assets and liabilities that gave rise to goodwill upon our application of fresh-start reporting resulting primarily from an overall improvement in our incremental borrowing rate and
corresponding decrease in our nonperformance risk since July 10, 2009. The actual goodwill impairment determination can also be affected by other factors in the Step 2 impairment test which we have not yet finalized. As a result, the actual
adjustment may be different than our current estimate upon the finalization of our valuation procedures and determination of our implied goodwill for GME at January 1, 2011.         Note 5. Acquisition and Disposal of Businesses        Acquisition
of AmeriCredit Corp.       On October 1, 2010 we acquired 100% of the outstanding equity interests of AmeriCredit, an
automotive finance company, renamed General Motors Financial Company, Inc., for cash of approximately $3.5 billion. The acquisition of AmeriCredit will allow us to provide a more complete range of financing options to our customers across the U.S.
and Canada, specifically focusing on providing additional capabilities in leasing and sub-prime vehicle financing options.   
  The following table summarizes the consideration paid, acquisition-related costs, and the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
recognized at the acquisition date in connection with the acquisition of AmeriCredit (dollars in millions, except per share amounts):       

(a)  
  Acquisition-related costs of $43 million were expensed as incurred. The acquisition related costs include $27 million recorded in Automotive selling, general and
administrative expense and $16 million recorded in GM Financial operating expenses and other.     
         185

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(b)  
  The Finance receivables were recorded at fair value, which was determined using a discounted cash flow approach. The contractual cash flows were adjusted for estimated
prepayments, defaults, recoveries, finance charge income and servicing costs and discounted using a discount rate commensurate with risks and maturity inherent in the finance contracts. As of the acquisition date, the contractually required payments
receivable was $10.7 billion of which $9.7 billion was expected to be collected.         

(c)  
  The fair value of securitization notes payable and other borrowings was principally determined using quoted market rates.     
  We recorded goodwill in the amount of $1.3 billion for the excess of consideration paid over the fair value of the individual assets
acquired and liabilities assumed. Goodwill includes $153 million recorded to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets that was not applicable to GM Financial on a stand-alone basis. All of the goodwill was assigned to the newly formed
GM Financial reporting segment. The goodwill expected to be tax deductible is $159 million and was generated from previous acquisitions by GM Financial.      The results of operations of GM Financial are included in our results beginning October 1, 2010. The following table summarizes the actual amounts of revenue and earnings of GM Financial included in
our consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2010 and the supplemental pro forma revenue and earnings of the combined entity as if the acquisition had occurred on January 1, 2009 (dollars in millions):   
   
    The supplemental pro
forma information was adjusted to give effect to the tax effected amortization of a premium on finance receivables and a premium on securitization notes payable and other borrowings, depreciation and amortization related to other assets and
acquisition related costs. The pro forma information should not be considered indicative of the results had the acquisition been consummated on January 1, 2009, nor are they indicative of future results.   
   Sale of Nexteer       On
November 30, 2010 we completed the sale of Nexteer, a manufacturer of steering components and half-shafts, to Pacific Century Motors. The sale of the Nexteer business included the global steering business which was acquired in October 2009 as
discussed under Acquisition of Delphi Businesses below. The 2009 acquisition of Nexteer included 22 manufacturing facilities, six engineering facilities and 14 customer support centers located in North and South America, Europe and Asia.   
  We received consideration of $426 million in cash and a $39 million promissory note in exchange for 100% of our ownership interest in
Nexteer and recorded a gain of $60 million on the sale which is recorded in Interest income and other non-operating income, net. Subsequent to the sale, Nexteer became one of our third party suppliers and we remain a significant customer. During
2010 Nexteer recorded revenue of $1.8 billion, of which $939 million were sales to us. During the period from October 6, 2009, the date of acquisition, to December 31, 2009, Nexteer reported revenue of $453 million, of which $218 million
were sales to us. We did not provide the pro forma financial information because we do not believe the information is material.   
         186

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Acquisition of Strasbourg    
  On October 1, 2010 we acquired 100% of the outstanding equity interest of General Motors Strasbourg S.A.S (GMS) for cash of one Euro
from MLC. GMS is an entity engaged in the business of developing and manufacturing automatic transmissions for luxury and performance light automotive vehicles which was previously owned by Old GM but retained by MLC in connection with the 363 Sale.
MLC was unable to sell GMS and upon notification of their plan to liquidate GMS, we agreed to repurchase the business. We believe the repurchase of GMS allows us to maintain good relationships and to help expand our business within the European
region.      We recorded the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of October 1, 2010, the date we
obtained control, and have included GMS s results of operations and cash flows from that date forward. The following table summarizes the amounts recorded in connection with the acquisition of GMS, which are included in our GME segment (dollars
in millions):       

(a)  
  Accounts receivable includes $32 million that is due from us.         

(b)  
  Current liabilities include $8 million that is due to us.        We determined that the excess of fair value over consideration paid was attributable to potential future restructuring scenarios made necessary due to the uncertainty in sales demand beyond in-place
supply agreements. Restructuring costs, if incurred, would be expensed in future periods. As potential future restructuring activities do not qualify to be recorded as a liability in the application of the acquisition method of accounting, none was
recorded, and we recorded the excess as a bargain purchase gain, classified as Interest income and other non-operating income, net. We did not provide the pro forma financial information because we do not believe the information is material. We
began to record the results of GMS operations in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition.       Sale of India
Operations       In December 2009 we and SAIC Motor Hong Kong Investment Limited (SAIC-HK) entered into a joint venture, SAIC
GM Investment Limited (HKJV) to invest in automotive projects outside of markets in China, initially focusing on markets in India. On February 1, 2010 we sold certain of our operations in India (GM India), part of our GMIO segment to HKJV, in
exchange for a promissory note due in 2013. The amount due under the promissory note may be partially reduced, or increased, based on GM India s cumulative earnings before interest and taxes for the three year period ending December 31,
2012. In connection with the sale we recorded net consideration of $185 million and an insignificant gain. The sale transaction resulted in a loss of control and the deconsolidation of GM India on February 1, 2010. Accordingly, we removed the
assets and liabilities of GM India from our consolidated financial statements and recorded an equity interest in HKJV to reflect cash of $50 million we contributed to HKJV and a $123 million commitment to provide additional capital that we are
required to make in accordance with the terms of the joint venture agreement. We have recorded a corresponding liability to reflect our obligation to provide additional capital.   
         187

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Acquisition of Delphi Businesses    
  In July 2009 we entered into the Delphi Master Disposition Agreement (DMDA) with Delphi and other parties. Under the DMDA, we agreed
to acquire Delphi s global steering business (Nexteer), which supplies us and other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs) with steering systems and columns, and four domestic facilities that manufacture a variety of automotive components,
primarily sold to us. In addition, we and several third party investors who held the Delphi Tranche DIP facilities (collectively the Investors) agreed to acquire substantially all of Delphi s remaining assets through DIP HOLDCO, LLP,
subsequently named Delphi Automotive LLP (New Delphi). Certain excluded assets and liabilities were retained by a Delphi entity (DPH) to be sold or liquidated. In connection with the DMDA, we agreed to pay or assume Delphi obligations of $1.0
billion related to Delphi s senior DIP credit facility, including certain outstanding derivative instruments, its junior DIP credit facility, and other Delphi obligations, including certain administrative claims. At the closing of the
transactions contemplated by the DMDA, we waived administrative claims associated with the advance agreements with Delphi, the payment terms acceleration agreement with Delphi, and the claims associated with previously transferred pension costs for
hourly employees. Refer to Note 22 for additional information on the DMDA.      We agreed to acquire, prior to the consummation of
the transactions contemplated by the DMDA, all Class A Membership Interests in New Delphi for a cash contribution of $1.7 billion with the Investors acquiring Class B Membership Interests and the Pension Benefit Guarantee Corporation (PBGC)
receiving Class C Membership Interests. We and the Investors also agreed to establish: (1) a secured delayed draw term loan facility for New Delphi, with us and the Investors each committing to provide loans of up to $500 million; and
(2) a note of $41 million to be funded at closing by the Investors. In addition, the DMDA settled outstanding claims and assessments against and from MLC, us and Delphi, including the settlement of commitments under the MRA (as defined in
Note 22) with limited exceptions, and establishes an ongoing commercial relationship with New Delphi. We also agreed to continue all existing Delphi supply agreements and purchase orders for GMNA to the end of the related product program, and New
Delphi agreed to provide us with access rights designed to allow us to operate specific sites on defined triggering events to provide us with protection of supply. The DMDA contains specific waterfall provisions for the allocation of distributions
among the Class A, Class B and Class C New Delphi Membership Interests. Once the cumulative amount distributed by New Delphi exceeds $7.0 billion, our Class A Membership Interests will represent 35% of New Delphi with Class B representing
the remaining 65%, excluding certain distributions to New Delphi directors and management and the unsecured creditors of Old Delphi. Our Class A Membership Interest entitles us to 49.12% of the first $1.0 billion of cumulative distributions and
57.78% of the next $1.0 billion of cumulative distributions excluding certain distributions to New Delphi directors and management. Additional distributions are applied to specific distribution levels until cumulative distributions reach $7.0
billion.      In October 2009 we consummated the transactions contemplated by the DMDA. The terms of the DMDA provided a means for
Delphi to emerge from bankruptcy and to effectively serve its customers by focusing on its core business. The DMDA also enabled us to access essential components and steering technologies through the businesses we acquired.   
  We funded the acquisitions, transaction related costs and settlements of certain pre-existing arrangements through net cash payments of
$2.7 billion and assumption of liabilities and wind-down obligations of $120 million. Additionally, we waived our rights to $550 million and $300 million previously advanced to Delphi under the advance agreements and the payment terms acceleration
agreement and our rights to claims associated with previously transferred pension costs for hourly employees. Of these amounts, we contributed $1.7 billion to New Delphi and paid the PBGC $70 million.   
  The terms of the DMDA resulted in the settlement of certain obligations related to various commitments accrued as of the transaction date
under the Delphi-GM Settlement Agreements. A settlement loss of $127 million was recorded upon consummation of the DMDA. Additional net charges of $49 million were recorded in the three months ended December 31, 2009 associated with the DMDA.
Refer to Note 22 for additional information on the Delphi-GM Settlement Agreements.   
         188

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes the consideration provided under the DMDA and the
allocation to its various elements based on their estimated fair values (dollars in millions):       

Successor   

October 6, 2009   

Net cash paid   
      
  $  
  2,656  

Waived advance agreements, payment terms acceleration agreement and other administrative claims (a)   

966  

Wind-down obligations and assumed liabilities   

120  

Total consideration provided   
      
  $  
  3,742  

Fair value of Nexteer and four facilities   
      
  $  
  287  

Fair value of Class A Membership Interests in New Delphi   

1,912  

Separately acquired assets of Delphi   

41  

Settlement of obligation to PBGC   

387  

Settlement of other obligations to Delphi   

1,066  

Expenses of the transaction   

49  

Allocation of fair value to DMDA elements   
      
  $  
  3,742  

(a)  
  Previously advanced amounts of $850 million and value of other administrative claims of $116 million.     
  The Class A Membership Interests in New Delphi are accounted for using the equity method of accounting.   
  The following table summarizes the amounts allocated to the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed of Nexteer and the
four domestic facilities, which are included in the results of our GMNA segment (dollars in millions):       

Successor   

October 6, 2009   

Cash and cash equivalents   
      
  $  
  40  

Accounts and notes receivable, net   

541  

Inventories   

245  

Other current assets and deferred income taxes   

28  

Property, net   

202  

Deferred income taxes   

39  

Other assets   

3  

Goodwill (a)   

61  

Accounts payable (principally trade)   

(316  
  )    
 
    Short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt   

(67  
  )    
 
    Accrued expenses   

(101  
  )    
 
    Long-term debt   

(10  
  )    
 
    Other liabilities and deferred income taxes   

(364  
  )    
 
    Noncontrolling interests   

(14  
  )    

Fair value of Nexteer and four domestic facilities   
      
  $  
  287  

(a)  
  Goodwill of $61 million recorded in the GMNA reporting unit arises from the difference between the economic value of long-term employee related liabilities and their
recorded amounts at the time of acquisition and deferred taxes. The total amount of goodwill deductible for tax purposes is expected to be $398 million. The difference between book goodwill and tax goodwill results from different allocations for tax
purposes than that utilized for book purposes.     
         189

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   Nexteer and the four domestic facilities had revenue of $3.7 billion in the year ended
December 31, 2008 of which 68% was related to sales to Old GM. Furthermore, through the terms of the MRA, we provided Delphi labor cost subsidies and production cash burn support to many of the facilities acquired. Refer to Note 22 for
additional information on the MRA. Since we and Old GM accounted for a significant portion of Nexteer s and the four domestic facilities  sales and because we were providing subsidies to Delphi related to these facilities, the acquisition
of these businesses did not have a significant effect on our consolidated financial results as the costs associated with these facilities have been recorded as inventory costs and recorded in Automotive cost of sales. We did not provide pro forma
financial information because we do not believe this information would be material given the intercompany nature of Nexteer and the four domestic facilities sales activity.       Saab Bankruptcy and Sale       In February 2009 Saab, part of our GME segment,
filed for protection under the reorganization laws of Sweden in order to reorganize itself into a stand-alone entity. Old GM determined that the reorganization proceeding resulted in a loss of the elements of control necessary for consolidation and
therefore Old GM deconsolidated Saab in February 2009. Old GM recorded a loss of $824 million in Other automotive expenses, net related to the deconsolidation. The loss reflected the remeasurement of Old GM s net investment in Saab to its
estimated fair value of $0, costs associated with commitments and obligations to suppliers and others, and a commitment to provide up to $150 million of DIP financing. We acquired Old GM s investment in Saab in connection with the 363 Sale. In
August 2009 Saab exited its reorganization proceeding, and we regained the elements of control and consolidated Saab at an insignificant fair value.      Saab s assets and liabilities were classified as held for sale at December 31, 2009. Saab s total assets of $388 million included cash and cash equivalents, inventory and receivables, and
its total liabilities of $355 million included accounts payable, warranty and pension obligations and other liabilities.      In
February 2010 we completed the sale of Saab and in May 2010 we completed the sale of Saab Automobile GB (Saab GB) to Spyker Cars NV. Of the negotiated cash purchase price of $74 million, we received $50 million at closing and received the remaining
$24 million in July 2010. We also received preference shares in Saab with a face value of $326 million and an estimated fair value that is insignificant and received $114 million as repayment of the DIP financing that we provided to Saab during
2009. In the year ended December 31, 2010 we recorded a gain of $123 million in Interest income and other non-operating income, net reflecting cash received of $166 million less net assets with a book value of $43 million.   
     Note 6. Finance Receivables, net        Automotive Financing       The following table summarizes the components of
Finance receivables, net (dollars in millions):       

Successor   

December 31, 2010   

Pre-acquisition finance receivables (pre-acquisition carrying amount)   
      
  $  
  7,724  

Post-acquisition finance receivables   

924  

Total finance receivables   

8,648  

Purchase price premium   

423  

Less non-accretable discount on pre-acquisition finance receivables   

(848  
  )    
 
    Less allowance for loan losses on post-acquisition receivables   

(26  
  )    

Total finance receivables, net   
      
  $  
  8,197  

Finance contracts are purchased by GM Financial from automobile dealers without recourse, and accordingly,
the dealer has no liability to GM Financial if the consumer defaults on the contract. Finance receivables are collateralized by vehicle titles and GM Financial has the right to repossess the vehicle in the event the consumer defaults on the payment
terms of the contract.   
         190

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   At December 31, 2010 the accrual of finance charge income has been suspended on
delinquent finance receivables of $491 million.      The following table summarizes purchase price premium (dollars in millions):
      
    The following table summarizes non-accretable discount (dollars in millions):   
   
    The following table summarizes the allowance for loan losses (dollars in millions):   

191

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
     Credit Quality     
  Credit bureau scores, generally referred to as FICO scores, are determined during GM Financial s automotive loan origination
process. The following table summarizes the credit risk profile of finance receivables by FICO score band, determined at origination (dollars in millions):       
      Delinquency        The following summarizes finance receivables more than 30 days delinquent, but not yet in repossession, and in repossession, but not yet charged off (dollars in millions):   
   
    An account is considered delinquent if a substantial portion of a scheduled payment has not been received by
the date such payment was contractually due. Delinquencies may vary from period to period based upon the average age of the portfolio, seasonality within the calendar year and economic factors.   
     Note 7. Securitizations        Automotive Financing       The following table summarizes securitization
activity and cash flows from SPEs used for securitizations (dollars in millions):       
    GM Financial retains
servicing responsibilities for receivables transferred to certain SPEs. At December 31, 2010 GM Financial serviced finance receivables that have been transferred to certain SPEs of $7.2 billion.   
         192

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
      Note 8. Marketable Securities    
   Automotive       The
following table summarizes information regarding marketable securities (dollars in millions):       
    We maintained $89 million and $79 million of the above trading securities as compensating balances to
support letters of credit of $74 million and $66 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009. We have access to these securities in the normal course of business; however, the letters of credit may be withdrawn if the minimum collateral balance is
not maintained.      The following table summarizes securities classified as Cash and cash equivalents and Restricted cash and
marketable securities (dollars in millions):       
    Refer to Note 24 for
classes of securities underlying Cash and cash equivalents and Restricted cash and marketable securities.      The following table
summarizes proceeds from and realized gains and losses on disposals of investments in marketable securities classified as available-for-sale and sold prior to maturity (dollars in millions):   

193

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes the fair value of investments classified as
available-for-sale securities by contractual maturity at December 31, 2010 (dollars in millions):       
    Refer to Note 26 for the amounts recorded as other than temporary impairments on debt and equity securities.
        Note 9. Inventories        Automotive       The following table summarizes the components of Inventories
(dollars in millions):       
    In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 and in the year ended December 31, 2008
Old GM s U.S. LIFO eligible inventory quantities were reduced. These reductions resulted in liquidations of LIFO inventory quantities, which were carried at lower costs prevailing in prior years as compared with the costs of purchases in the
period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 and in the year ended December 31, 2008. These liquidations decreased Old GM s Automotive cost of sales by $5 million in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 and
$355 million in the year ended December 31, 2008.         Note 10. Equipment on Operating Leases, net
       Automotive       Equipment on operating leases, net is comprised of vehicle sales to daily rental car companies and to retail customers.      The following table summarizes information related to Equipment on operating leases, net and the related accumulated depreciation (dollars in millions):   

194

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes depreciation expense and impairment charges related to
Equipment on operating leases, net (dollars in millions):       
    Refer to Note 26 for
additional information on impairment charges related to Equipment on operating leases, net.         Note 11. Equity in
Net Assets of Nonconsolidated Affiliates        Automotive       Nonconsolidated affiliates are entities in which an equity ownership interest is maintained and for which the equity method of accounting is used, due to the ability to exert significant influence over
decisions relating to their operating and financial affairs.      The following table summarizes information regarding equity in
income (loss) of and disposition of interest in nonconsolidated affiliates (dollars in millions):       

(b)  
  New United Motor Manufacturing, Inc. (NUMMI) (50%) was retained by MLC as a part of the 363 Sale.     

(c)  
  New Delphi was acquired in October 2009. Refer to Note 5 for additional information on acquisition of Delphi businesses.     
    Investment in China JVs        Our Chinese operations, which we established beginning in 1997, are comprised of the following joint ventures: SGM, SGMW, FAW-GM Light Duty Commercial Vehicle, Ltd. (FAW-GM), Pan Asia Technical Automotive
Center Co., Ltd. (PATAC), Shanghai OnStar Telematics Co. Ltd. (Shanghai OnStar) and Shanghai Chengxin Used Car Operation and Management Co., Ltd. (Used Car   
         195

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

JV), collectively referred to as the China JVs. Sales and income of these joint ventures are not consolidated into our financial statements; rather, our proportionate share of the earnings of
each joint venture is reflected as Equity income, net of tax.      SGM is a joint venture established by Shanghai Automotive
Industry Corporation (SAIC) (51%) and us (49%) in 1997. SGM has interests in three other joint ventures in China   Shanghai GM (Shenyang) Norsom Motor Co., Ltd (SGM Norsom), Shanghai GM Dong Yue Motors Co., Ltd (SGM DY) and Shanghai
GM Dong Yue Powertrain (SGM DYPT). These three joint ventures are jointly held by SGM (50%), SAIC (25%) and us (25%). The four joint ventures (SGM Group) are engaged in the production, import, and sale of a comprehensive range of products under
the brands of Buick, Chevrolet and Cadillac.      SGMW produces mini-commercial vehicles and passenger cars utilizing local
architectures under the Wuling, Chevrolet and Baojun brands. FAW-GM, of which we own 50% and China FAW Group Corporation (FAW) owns 50%, produces light commercial vehicles under the Jiefang brand and medium vans under the FAW brand. Our joint
venture agreements allow for significant rights as a member.      SAIC, one of our joint venture partners, currently produces
vehicles under its own brands for sale in the Chinese market. At present vehicles that SAIC produces primarily serve markets that are different from markets served by our joint ventures.   
  PATAC is our China-based engineering and technical joint venture with SAIC. Shanghai OnStar is our joint venture with SAIC that provides
Chinese customers with a wide array of vehicle safety and information services. Used Car JV is our joint venture with SAIC that will cooperate with current distributors of SGM products in the establishment of dedicated used car sales and service
facilities across China.      In February 2010 we sold a 1% ownership interest in SGM to SAIC-HK, reducing our ownership interest
to 49%. The sale of the 1% ownership interest to SAIC was predicated on our ability to work with SAIC to obtain a $400 million line of credit from a commercial bank to us. We also received a call option to repurchase the 1% which is contingently
exercisable based on events which we do not unilaterally control. As part of the loan arrangement SAIC provided a commitment whereby, in the event of default, SAIC will purchase the ownership interest in SGM that we pledged as collateral for the
loan. We recorded an insignificant gain on this transaction in the year ended December 31, 2010.      In November 2010 we
purchased an additional 10% interest in SGMW from the Liuzhou Wuling Motors Co., Ltd. and Liuzhou Mini Vehicles Factory, collectively the Wuling Group, for cash of $52 million plus an agreement to provide technical services to the Wuling Group for a
period of three years. As a result of this transaction, we own 44%, SAIC owns 50.1% and certain Liuzhou investors own 5.9% of the outstanding stock of SGMW. The fair value of the additional 10% interest in SGMW was $394 million at the date of the
transaction, as determined using a discounted cash flow methodology. The difference between the cash consideration and the fair value of the 10% interest in SGMW is being deferred and amortized over the three year period we will provide technical
services to the Wuling Group. During the year ended December 31, 2010 $14 million was amortized and recorded in Interest income and other non-operating income, net.        Investment in and Summarized Financial Data of Nonconsolidated Affiliates        The following table summarizes the carrying amount of investments in significant nonconsolidated affiliates (dollars in millions):   

196

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   On July 10, 2009 our investments in SGM and its subsidiaries were adjusted to their
fair values. Our investment in SGM was increased by fresh-start reporting adjustments of $3.5 billion. This fair value adjustment of $3.5 billion was allocated as follows: (1) goodwill of $2.9 billion; (2) intangible assets of $0.6
billion; and (3) property of $38 million. The increase in basis related to intangible assets is being amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining useful lives of the assets ranging from seven to 25 years, with amortization expense of
$24 million per year. The increase in basis related to property is being depreciated on a straight-line basis over the remaining useful lives of the assets ranging from two to 22 years, with depreciation expense of $5 million per year.   
  On July 10, 2009 our investment in SGMW was adjusted to its fair value. Our investment in SGMW was increased by fresh-start reporting
adjustments of $265 million which were allocated as follows: (1) goodwill of $165 million; (2) intangible assets of $93 million; and (3) property of $7 million. The increase in basis related to intangible assets is being amortized on a straight-line
basis over the remaining useful lives of 25 years, with amortization expense of $4 million per year. The increase in basis related to property is being depreciated on a straight-line basis over the remaining useful lives of the assets ranging from
three to 22 years.      As a result of our purchase of an additional 10% interest in SGMW, our additional investment was recorded
at its fair value of $394 million, an increase of $322 million from SGMW s book value. This fair value increase was allocated as follows: (1) goodwill of $231 million; (2) intangible assets of $82 million; (3) inventory of $5 million; and (4)
property of $4 million. The increase in basis related to intangible assets is being amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining useful lives of 25 years, with amortization expense of $3 million per year. The increase in basis related to
property is being depreciated on a straight-line basis over the remaining useful lives of the assets ranging from three to 22 years.      The following table presents summarized financial data for all of our nonconsolidated affiliates, excluding Ally Financial (dollars in millions):   

197

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  Summarized financial information is not included for a joint venture that we dissolved in June 2010. We recognized equity income of $10 million in the six months ended
June 30, 2010.         
      Transactions with Nonconsolidated Affiliates
       Nonconsolidated affiliates are involved in various aspects of the development, production and marketing of cars,
trucks and parts, and we purchase component parts and vehicles from certain nonconsolidated affiliates for resale to dealers. The following tables summarize the effects of transactions with nonconsolidated affiliates, excluding transactions with
Ally Financial which are disclosed in Note 32, which are not eliminated in consolidation (dollars in millions):       

Investment in
Ally Financial        As part of the approval process for Ally Financial to obtain Bank Holding Company status in December
2008, Old GM agreed to reduce its ownership in Ally Financial to less than 10% of the voting and total equity of Ally Financial by December 24, 2011. At December 31, 2010 our equity ownership in Ally Financial was 9.9%.   
  In January 2009 Old GM entered into the UST Ally Financial Loan Agreement pursuant to which Old GM borrowed $884 million (UST Ally
Financial Loan) and utilized those funds to purchase 190,921 Class B Common Membership Interests in Ally Financial. The UST Ally Financial Loan was scheduled to mature in January 2012 and bore interest, payable quarterly, at the same rate of
interest as the UST Loans. The UST Ally Financial Loan Agreement was secured by Old GM s Common and Preferred Membership Interests in Ally Financial. The UST had the option to convert outstanding amounts into a maximum of 190,921 shares of Ally
Financial s Class B Common Membership Interests on a pro rata basis.   
         198

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   In May 2009 the UST exercised this option, the outstanding principal and interest under
the UST Ally Financial Loan was extinguished, and Old GM recorded a net gain of $483 million. The net gain was comprised of a gain on the disposition of Ally Financial Common Membership Interests of $2.5 billion recorded in Equity in income of and
disposition of interest in Ally Financial and a loss on extinguishment of the UST Ally Financial Loan of $2.0 billion recorded in Loss on extinguishment of debt. After the exchange, Old GM s ownership was reduced to 24.5% of Ally
Financial s Common Membership Interests.      Ally Financial converted its status to a C corporation effective June 30,
2009. At that date, Old GM began to account for its investment in Ally Financial using the cost method rather than the equity method as Old GM could not exercise significant influence over Ally Financial. Prior to converting to a C corporation, Old
GM s investment in Ally Financial was accounted for in a manner similar to an investment in a limited liability partnership and the equity method was applied because Old GM s influence was more than minor. In connection with Ally
Financial s conversion into a C corporation, each unit of each class of Ally Financial Membership Interests was converted into shares of capital stock of Ally Financial with substantially the same rights and preferences as such Membership
Interests. On July 10, 2009 we acquired the investment in Ally Financial s common and preferred stocks in connection with the 363 Sale.      In December 2009 the UST made a capital contribution to Ally Financial of $3.8 billion. The UST also exchanged all of its existing Ally Financial non-convertible preferred stock for newly issued mandatory
convertible preferred securities valued at $5.3 billion and converted mandatory convertible preferred securities valued at $3.0 billion into Ally Financial common stock. These actions resulted in the dilution of our investment in Ally Financial
common stock from 24.5% to 16.6%, of which 6.7% was held directly and 9.9% was held indirectly through an independent trust.   
  In December 2010 the UST agreed to convert its optional conversion feature on the shares of mandatory convertible preferred securities
held by the UST. Through this transaction, Ally Financial converted 110 million shares of preferred securities into 532 thousand shares of common stock. This action resulted in the dilution of our investment in Ally Financial common stock
from 16.6% to 9.9%, of which 4.0% is held directly and 5.9% is held indirectly through an independent trust. Pursuant to previous commitments to reduce influence over and ownership in Ally Financial, the trustee, who is independent of us, has the
sole authority to vote and is required to dispose of all Ally Financial common stock held in the trust by December 24, 2011. We can cause the trustee to return any Ally Financial common stock to us to hold directly, so long as our directly held
voting and total common equity interests remain below 10%.      The following tables summarize financial information of Ally
Financial for the period Ally Financial was accounted for as a nonconsolidated affiliate (dollars in millions):       
 
         199

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

Ally Financial
  Preferred and Common Membership Interests       The following tables summarize the activity with respect to the
investment in Ally Financial Common and Preferred Membership Interests for the period Ally Financial was accounted for as a nonconsolidated affiliate (dollars in millions):   

Predecessor   

Ally 
Financial     Common     Membership Interests   

Ally Financial     Preferred     Membership Interests   

Balance at January 1, 2009   
      
  $  
  491  

$  
  43  

Old GM s proportionate share of Ally Financial s losses (a)   

(1,130  
  )   

(7  
  )    
 
    Investment in Ally Financial Common Membership Interests   

884  

Gain on disposition of Ally Financial Common Membership Interests   

2,477  

Conversion of Ally Financial Common Membership Interests   

(2,885  
  )   

Other, primarily accumulated other comprehensive loss   

163  

Balance at June 30, 2009   
      
  $  

$  
  36  

(a)  
  Due to impairment charges and Old GM s proportionate share of Ally Financial s losses, the carrying amount of Old GM s investments in Ally Financial
Common Membership Interests was reduced to $0. Old GM recorded its proportionate share of Ally Financial s remaining losses to its investment in Ally Financial Preferred Membership Interests.     
         200

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
      Note 12. Property, net    
   Automotive       The
following table summarizes the components of Property, net (dollars in millions):       
    The following table summarizes the amount of interest capitalized and excluded from Automotive interest
expense related to Property, net (dollars in millions):       
    The following table
summarizes the amount of capitalized software included in Property, net (dollars in millions):       
    The following table
summarizes depreciation, impairment charges and amortization expense related to Property, net, recorded in Automotive cost of sales, Automotive selling, general and administrative expense and Other automotive expenses, net (dollars in millions):

(a)  
  Included in Total depreciation, impairment charges and amortization expense.     
         201

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   Old GM initiated restructuring plans prior to the 363 Sale to reduce the total number of
powertrain, stamping and assembly plants and to eliminate certain brands and nameplates. In addition, MLC retained certain assets that we did not acquire in connection with the 363 Sale and were deemed not to have a useful life beyond July 9,
2009. As a result, Old GM recorded incremental depreciation and amortization on certain of these assets as they were expected to be utilized over a shorter period of time than their previously estimated useful lives. We record incremental
depreciation and amortization for changes in useful lives subsequent to the initial determination. We recorded incremental depreciation and amortization of $18 million and $20 million in the year ended December 31, 2010 and the period
July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009. Old GM recorded incremental depreciation and amortization of approximately $2.8 billion and $0.8 billion in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 and the year ended
December 31, 2008.         Note 13. Goodwill        Consolidated       The following table summarizes the changes in the carrying
amounts of Goodwill (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Reflects the revised segment presentation for our newly created GMSA segment. Refer to Note 35 for additional information.     

(b)  
  In the year ended December 31, 2010 we changed our managerial and financial reporting structure so that certain entities geographically located within Russia and
Uzbekistan were transferred from our GME segment to our GMIO segment. Goodwill was reassigned between reporting units on a relative-fair-value basis.         

(c)  
  On October 1, 2010 our acquisition of AmeriCredit became effective. Pursuant to ASC 805 we assigned fair value to all assets, including identifiable intangible
assets, and liabilities acquired. Subsequent to assigning fair values and recording deferred income taxes in accordance with ASC 740, a residual amount of $1.3 billion was recorded as Goodwill. Goodwill includes $153 million that was recorded at the
acquisition date to establish a valuation allowance for deferred tax assets that were not applicable to GM Financial on a stand-alone basis.     
         202

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(d)  
  We recorded Goodwill of $30.5 billion upon application of fresh-start reporting. If all identifiable assets and liabilities had been recorded at fair value upon
application of fresh-start reporting, no goodwill would have resulted. However, when applying fresh-start reporting, certain accounts, primarily employee benefit plan and income tax related, were recorded at amounts determined under specific U.S.
GAAP rather than fair value and the difference between the U.S. GAAP and fair value amounts gave rise to goodwill, which is a residual. Our employee benefit related accounts were recorded in accordance with ASC 712 and 715 and deferred income taxes
were recorded in accordance with ASC 740. Further, we recorded valuation allowances against certain of our deferred tax assets, which under ASC 852 also resulted in Goodwill. These valuation allowances were due in part to Old GM s history of
recurring operating losses, and our projections at the 363 Sale date of continued near-term operating losses in certain jurisdictions. While the 363 Sale constituted a significant restructuring that eliminated many operating and financing costs, Old
GM had undertaken significant restructurings in the past that failed to return certain jurisdictions to profitability. At the 363 Sale date, we concluded that there was significant uncertainty as to whether the recent restructuring actions would
return these jurisdictions to sustained profitability, thereby necessitating the establishment of a valuation allowance against certain deferred tax assets. None of the goodwill from this transaction is deductible for tax purposes.
       In the three months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 we performed our annual goodwill impairment analysis
of our reporting units at October 1, 2010 and 2009, and in the three months ended June 30, 2010 an event-driven impairment analysis for GME which resulted in no goodwill impairment charges.   
  The valuation methodologies utilized to perform our goodwill impairment testing were consistent with those used in our application of
fresh-start reporting on July 10, 2009, as discussed in Note 2, and in any subsequent annual or event-driven impairment tests and resulted in Level 3 measures.      Our fair value estimate assumes the achievement of the future financial results contemplated in our forecasted cash flows, and there can be no assurance that we will realize that value. The estimates and
assumptions used are subject to significant uncertainties, many of which are beyond our control, and there is no assurance that anticipated financial results will be achieved.      Refer to Note 26 for additional information on goodwill impairments in prior periods.        
 Note 14. Intangible Assets, net        Automotive       The following table summarizes the components of Intangible assets, net (dollars in millions):       
 
         203

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes the amortization expense related to intangible assets
(dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Amortization expense in the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 includes an impairment charge of $21 million related to technology and intellectual
property. Refer to Note 26 for additional information on the impairment charge.        The following table summarizes
estimated amortization expense related to intangible assets in each of the next five years (dollars in millions):       
       Note
15. Restricted Cash and Marketable Securities        Automotive       Cash and marketable securities subject to contractual restrictions and not readily available are classified as Restricted cash and marketable securities. Restricted cash and marketable securities are
invested in accordance with the terms of the underlying agreements. Funds previously held in the UST Credit Agreement and currently held in the Canadian Health Care Trust (HCT) escrow and other accounts have been invested in government securities
and money market funds in accordance with the terms of the escrow agreements. At December 31, 2010 and 2009 we held securities of $1.5 billion and $14.2 billion that were classified as Restricted cash and marketable securities. Refer to
Note 24 for additional information on securities classified as Restricted cash and marketable securities.      The following table
summarizes the components of automotive Restricted cash and marketable securities (dollars in millions):       
 
         204

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  In April 2010 the UST Loans and Canadian Loan were paid in full and funds remaining in escrow were no longer subject to restrictions.     

(b)  
  Under the terms of an escrow agreement between GMCL, the EDC and an escrow agent, GMCL established a CAD $1.0 billion (equivalent to $893 million when entered into)
escrow to fund certain of its healthcare obligations.         

(c)  
  The Receivables Program provided financial assistance to automotive suppliers by guaranteeing or purchasing certain receivables payable by us. In April 2010 the
Receivable Program was terminated in accordance with its terms.         

(d)  
  Includes amounts related to various letters of credit, deposits, escrows and other cash collateral requirements.     
   Automotive Financing    
  Cash subject to contractual restrictions and not readily available is classified as restricted cash.   
  The following table summarizes the components of automotive financing restricted cash (dollars in millions):   

(a)  
  Cash pledged to support securitization transactions and credit facilities is invested in highly liquid securities with original maturities of 90 days or less or in
highly rated guaranteed investment contracts.         

(b)  
  Other restricted cash is pledged in association with derivative transactions.           Note 16. Other Assets        Automotive    
  The following table summarizes the components of Other assets (dollars in millions):   

(a)  
  At December 31, 2010 a note receivable of $245 million is included related to the sale of GM India. Refer to Note 5 for additional information.
    
         205

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
      Note 17. Variable Interest Entities    
   Consolidated VIEs    
    Automotive        VIEs that we do not control through a majority voting interest that are consolidated because we are or Old GM was the primary beneficiary primarily include: (1) previously divested suppliers for
which we provide or Old GM provided guarantees or financial support; (2) a program announced by the UST in March 2009 to provide financial assistance to automotive suppliers (Receivables Program); (3) vehicle sales and marketing joint
ventures that manufacture, market and sell vehicles in certain markets; (4) leasing SPEs which held real estate assets and related liabilities for which Old GM provided residual guarantees; and (5) an entity which manages certain private
equity investments held by our and Old GM s defined benefit plans, along with seven associated general partner entities.   
  Certain creditors and beneficial interest holders of these VIEs have or had limited, insignificant recourse to our general credit or Old
GM s general credit. In the event that creditors or beneficial interest holders were to have such recourse to our or Old GM s general credit, we or Old GM could be held liable for certain of the VIEs  obligations. GM Daewoo
Auto   Technology Co. (GM Daewoo), a non-wholly owned consolidated subsidiary that we control through a majority voting interest, is also a VIE because in the future it may require additional subordinated financial support. The creditors of
GM Daewoo s short-term debt of $70 million, preferred shares classified as long-term debt of $835 million and current derivative liabilities of $111 million at December 31, 2010 do not have recourse to our general credit. In February 2011
we provided a guarantee to Korean Development Bank, a minority shareholder in GM Daewoo, to redeem GM Daewoo s preferred shares should GM Daewoo not have sufficient legally distributable earnings.   
  The following table summarizes the carrying amount of consolidated VIEs that we do not control through a majority voting interest or are
part of GM Financial s securitization transactions (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Amounts exclude GM Daewoo.         
 
         206

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes the amounts recorded in earnings related to consolidated
VIEs we do not control through a majority voting interest or are part of GM Financial s securitization transactions (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Amounts exclude GM Daewoo.         
 
   GM Egypt    
  GM Egypt, of which we own 31%, is an automotive manufacturing organization that was previously accounted for using the equity method of
accounting. GM Egypt was founded in March 1983 to assemble and manufacture vehicles. Certain voting and other rights permit us to direct those activities of GM Egypt that most significantly affect its economic performance. In connection with our
adoption of amendments to ASC 810, we consolidated GM Egypt in January 2010.       Receivables Program    
  At December 31, 2009 our equity contributions were $55 million and the UST had outstanding loans of $150 million to the Receivables
Program. In March 2010 we repaid these loans in full. The Receivables Program was terminated in accordance with its terms in April 2010. Upon termination, we shared residual capital of $25 million in the program equally with the UST and paid a
termination fee of $44 million.       CAMI       In March 2009 Old GM determined that due to changes in contractual arrangements related to CAMI Automotive Inc. (CAMI), it was required to reconsider its previous conclusion that CAMI was not a VIE. As a
result of Old GM s analysis, it determined that CAMI was a VIE and Old GM was the primary beneficiary, and therefore Old GM consolidated CAMI. The equity interests held by Old GM and held by the noncontrolling interest had a fair value of
approximately $12 million. Total assets were approximately $472 million comprised primarily of property, plants, and equipment and related party accounts receivable and inventory. Total liabilities were approximately $460 million, comprised
primarily of long-term debt, accrued liabilities and pension and other post-employment benefits. In December 2009 we acquired the remaining noncontrolling interest of CAMI from Suzuki Motor Corporation for $100 million, increasing our ownership
interest from 50% to 100%. CAMI is a wholly-owned subsidiary and therefore not included in the previous tabular disclosure.   
         207

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
     Automotive Financing     
  GM Financial finances its loan origination volume through the use of credit facilities and securitization trusts that issue asset-backed
securities to investors. GM Financial retains an interest in these securitization trusts which are structured without recourse.   
  GM Financial s continuing involvement with the credit facilities and securitization trusts includes servicing loans held by the SPEs
and holding a residual interest in the SPE. The SPEs are considered VIEs because they do not have sufficient equity at risk, and are consolidated because GM Financial is the primary beneficiary and has the power over those activities that most
significantly affect the economic performance of the SPEs, and has an obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits from the SPEs which are potentially significant. Refer to Notes 6, 7 and 19 for additional information on GM
Financial s involvement with the SPEs.      GM Financial is not required to provide any additional financial support to its
sponsored credit facilities and securitization SPEs. The finance receivables and other assets held by these subsidiaries are not available to our creditors or creditors of our other subsidiaries. Refer to Notes 6 and 7 for disclosures related to the
amounts held by the SPEs as of the balance sheet dates.       Nonconsolidated VIEs    
    Automotive        VIEs that are not consolidated because we are not or Old GM was not the primary beneficiary primarily include: (1) troubled suppliers for which we provide or Old GM provided guarantees or financial
support; (2) vehicle sales and marketing joint ventures that manufacture, market and sell vehicles and related services; (3) leasing entities for which residual value guarantees were made; (4) certain research entities for which
annual ongoing funding requirements exist; and (5) Ally Financial.      Guarantees and financial support are provided to
certain current or previously divested suppliers in order to ensure that supply needs for production are not disrupted due to a supplier s liquidity concerns or possible shutdowns. Types of financial support that we provide and Old GM provided
include, but are not limited to: (1) funding in the form of a loan; (2) guarantees of the supplier s debt or credit facilities; (3) one-time payments to fund prior losses of the supplier; (4) indemnification agreements to
fund the suppliers  future losses or obligations; (5) agreements to provide additional funding or liquidity to the supplier in the form of price increases or changes in payment terms; and (6) assisting the supplier in finding
additional investors. The maximum exposure to loss related to these VIEs is not expected to be in excess of the amount of net accounts and notes receivable recorded with the suppliers and any related guarantees and loan commitments.   
  We have and Old GM had investments in joint ventures that manufacture, market and sell vehicles in certain markets. The majority of these
joint ventures are typically self-funded and financed with no contractual terms that require us to provide future financial support. Future funding is required for HKJV, as subsequently discussed. The maximum exposure to loss is not expected to be
in excess of the carrying amount of the investments recorded in Equity in net assets of nonconsolidated affiliates, and any related capital funding requirements.   
         208

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes the amounts recorded for nonconsolidated VIEs and the
related off-balance sheet guarantees and maximum exposure to loss, excluding Ally Financial that is disclosed in Note 32 (dollars in millions):       

(b)  
  Amounts at December 31, 2010 and 2009 include undrawn loan commitments, primarily $100 million related to American Axle and Manufacturing Holdings, Inc. (American
Axle).         

(c)  
  Amounts at December 31, 2010 include capital funding requirements, primarily an additional contingent future funding requirement of up to $223 million related to
HKJV.        Stated contractual voting or similar rights for certain of our joint venture arrangements provide various
parties with shared power over the activities that most significantly affect the economic performance of certain nonconsolidated VIEs. Such nonconsolidated VIEs are operating joint ventures located in developing international markets.   
   American Axle       In September 2009 we paid $110 million to American Axle, a former subsidiary and current supplier, to settle and modify existing commercial arrangements and acquire warrants to purchase 4 million
shares of American Axle s common stock. We also provided American Axle with a second lien term loan facility of up to $100 million. Additional warrants will be granted if amounts are drawn on the second lien term loan facility.   
  As a result of these transactions, we concluded that American Axle was a VIE for which we were not the primary beneficiary and we
currently lack the power through voting or similar rights to direct those activities of American Axle that most significantly affect its economic performance. Our variable interests in American Axle include the warrants we received and the second
lien term loan facility, which expose us to possible future losses depending on the financial performance of American Axle. At December 31, 2010 no amounts were outstanding under the second lien term loan facility. At December 31, 2010 our
maximum contractual exposure to loss related to American Axle was $144 million, which represented the fair value of the warrants of $44 million and the potential   
         209

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

exposure of $100 million related to the second lien term loan facility. In February 2011 we exercised the warrants and sold the shares and received proceeds of $48 million.   
   Ally Financial       We own 9.9% of Ally Financial s common stock and preferred stock with a liquidation preference of $1.0 billion. Ally Financial is a VIE as it does not have sufficient equity at risk; however, we are
not the primary beneficiary and we currently lack the power through voting or similar rights to direct those activities of Ally Financial that most significantly affect its economic performance. Refer to Notes 11 and 32 for additional information on
our investment in Ally Financial, our significant agreements with Ally Financial and our maximum exposure under those agreements.       Saab       Our primary variable interest in Saab is the preference shares that
we received in connection with the sale, which have a face value of $326 million and were recorded at an estimated fair value that is insignificant. We concluded that Saab is a VIE as it does not have sufficient equity at risk. We also determined
that we are not the primary beneficiary because we lack the power to direct those activities that most significantly affect its economic performance. We continue to be obligated to fund certain Saab related liabilities, primarily warranty
obligations related to vehicles sold prior to the disposition of Saab. At December 31, 2010 our maximum exposure to loss related to Saab was $105 million. Refer to Note 5 for additional information on the sale of Saab.   
   HKJV    
  In December 2009 we established the HKJV operating joint venture to invest in automotive projects outside of China, initially focusing on
markets in India. HKJV purchased GM India in February 2010. We determined that HKJV is a VIE because it will require additional subordinated financial support, and we determined that we are not the primary beneficiary because we share the power with
SAIC-HK to direct those activities that most significantly affect HKJV s economic performance. Refer to Note 5 for additional information on HKJV.   
         210

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
      Note 18. Accrued Liabilities, Other Liabilities and Deferred Income Taxes
       Automotive       The following table summarizes the components of Accrued liabilities, other liabilities and deferred income taxes:       
 
         211

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes activity for policy, product warranty, recall campaigns
and certified used vehicle warranty liabilities (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  In August 2009 Saab met the criteria to be classified as held for sale and, as a result, Saab s warranty liability was classified as held for sale at
December 31, 2009.           Note 19. Short-Term and Long-Term Debt    
   Automotive       The
following table summarizes the components of automotive short-term debt and current portion of long-term debt (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Primarily dealer financing from Ally Financial for dealerships we consolidate.     

(b)  
  Commitment fees are paid on credit facilities at rates negotiated in each agreement. Amounts paid and expensed for these commitment fees during the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009 were insignificant.         

(c)  
  Includes zero coupon debt.         

(d)  
  Includes coupon rates on debt denominated in various foreign currencies.     
         212

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes the components of automotive long-term debt (dollars in
millions):       

(a)  
  Commitment fees are paid on credit facilities at rates negotiated in each agreement. Amounts paid and expensed for these commitment fees during the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009 were insignificant.         Automotive Financing    
  The following table summarizes the components of GM Financial debt (dollars in millions):   

(a)  
  Senior notes and convertible senior notes are included in GM Financial Other liabilities.         Automotive         Secured Revolving Credit Facility     
  In October 2010 we entered into a five year, $5.0 billion secured revolving credit facility, which includes a letter of credit
sub-facility of up to $500 million. While we do not believe that we will draw on the secured revolving credit facility to fund operating activities, the facility is expected to provide additional liquidity and financing flexibility. Availability
under the secured revolving credit facility is subject to borrowing base restrictions.      Our obligations under the secured
revolving credit facility are guaranteed by certain of our domestic subsidiaries and by substantially all of our domestic assets, including accounts receivable, inventory, property, plants, and equipment, real estate, intercompany loans,
intellectual property, trademarks and direct investments in Ally Financial. Obligations are also secured by the equity interests in certain of our direct domestic subsidiaries, as well as up to 65% of the voting equity interests in certain of our
direct foreign subsidiaries, in each case, subject to certain exceptions. The collateral securing the secured revolving credit facility does not include, among other assets, cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities, as well as our investment in
GM Financial, our investment in New Delphi and our equity interests in our China JVs and in GM Daewoo.      Depending on certain
terms and conditions in the secured revolving credit facility, including compliance with the borrowing base requirements and certain other covenants, we will be able to add one or more  pari passu  first lien loan facilities. We will also have
the   
         213

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

ability to secure up to $2.0 billion of certain non-loan obligations that we may designate from time to time as additional  pari passu  first lien obligations. Second-lien debt is generally
allowed but second lien debt maturing prior to the final maturity date of the secured revolving credit facility is limited to $3.0 billion in outstanding obligations.      Interest rates on obligations under the secured revolving credit facility are based on prevailing per annum interest rates for Eurodollar loans or an alternative base rate plus an applicable margin, in
each case, based upon the credit rating assigned to the debt evidenced by the secured revolving credit facility.      The secured
revolving credit facility contains representations, warranties and covenants customary for facilities of this nature, including negative covenants restricting us and our subsidiary guarantors from incurring liens, consummating mergers or sales of
assets and incurring secured indebtedness, and restricting us from making restricted payments, in each case, subject to exceptions and limitations. The secured revolving credit facility contains minimum liquidity covenants, which require us to
maintain at least $4.0 billion in consolidated global liquidity and at least $2.0 billion in consolidated U.S. liquidity.   
  Events of default under the secured revolving credit facility include events of default customary for facilities of this nature
(including customary notice and/or grace periods, as applicable) such as:       

The failure to pay principal at the stated maturity, interest or any other amounts owed under the secured revolving credit agreement or related
documents;          

The failure of certain of our representations or warranties to be correct in all material respects;      

The failure to perform any term, covenant or agreement in the secured revolving credit agreement or related documents;

The existence of certain judgments that are not vacated, discharged, stayed or bonded;      

Certain cross defaults or cross accelerations with certain other debt;      

Certain defaults under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA);      

A change of control;          

Certain bankruptcy events; and          

The invalidation of the guarantees.         While the occurrence and continuance of an event of default will restrict our ability to borrow under the secured revolving credit facility, the lenders will not be permitted to exercise rights or
remedies against the collateral unless the obligations under the secured revolving credit facility have been accelerated.      We
incurred up-front fees, arrangement fees, and will incur ongoing commitment and other fees customary for a facility of this nature.        UST Loans and UST Loan Agreement        Old GM received total proceeds of
$19.8 billion ($15.8 billion subsequent to January 1, 2009, including $361 million under the U.S. government sponsored warranty program) from the UST under the UST Loan Agreement entered into on December 31, 2008. In connection with the
Chapter 11 Proceedings, Old GM obtained additional funding of $33.3 billion from the UST and EDC under its DIP Facility. From these proceeds, there was no deposit remaining in escrow at December 31, 2010.   
  On July 10, 2009 we entered into the UST Credit Agreement and assumed debt of $7.1 billion maturing on July 10, 2015 which Old
GM incurred under its DIP Facility. Immediately after entering into the UST Credit Agreement, we made a partial repayment due to the termination of the U.S. government sponsored warranty program, reducing the UST Loans principal balance to $6.7
billion. In   
         214

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

March 2010 and December 2009 we made quarterly payments of $1.0 billion on the UST Loans. In April 2010 we repaid the full outstanding amount of $4.7 billion using funds from our escrow account.
     While we have repaid the UST Loans in full, certain of the covenants in the UST Credit Agreement and the executive
compensation and corporate governance provisions of Section 111 of the Emergency Stabilization Act of 2008, as amended, including the Interim Final Rule implementing Section 111 (the Interim Final Rule), remain in effect until the earlier
to occur of the UST ceasing to own direct or indirect equity interests in us or our ceasing to be a recipient of Exceptional Financial Assistance, as determined pursuant to the Interim Final Rule, and impose obligations on us with respect to, among
other things, certain expense policies, executive privileges and compensation requirements.      The following table summarizes
interest expense and interest paid on the UST Loans, the loans under the UST Loan Agreement (UST Loan Facility) and the DIP Facility (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  UST Loans.         

(b)  
  UST Loan Facility and the DIP Facility.          VEBA Notes        In connection with the 363 Sale, we entered into the
VEBA Note Agreement and issued VEBA Notes of $2.5 billion to the New VEBA. The VEBA Notes had an implied interest rate of 9.0% per annum. The VEBA Notes and accrued interest were contractually scheduled to be repaid in three equal installments
of $1.4 billion on July 15 of 2013, 2015 and 2017.      The obligations under the VEBA Note Agreement were secured by
substantially all of our U.S. assets, subject to certain exceptions, including our equity interests in certain of our foreign subsidiaries, limited in most cases to 65% of the equity interests of the pledged foreign subsidiaries due to tax
considerations.      In October 2010 we repaid in full the outstanding amount (together with accreted interest thereon) of the
VEBA Notes of $2.8 billion, which resulted in a gain of $198 million included in Gain (loss) on extinguishment of debt.      The
following table summarizes interest expense on the VEBA Notes (dollars in millions):       
      Canadian Loan
Agreement and EDC Loan Facility        On July 10, 2009 we entered into the Canadian Loan Agreement and assumed a CAD
$1.5 billion (equivalent to $1.3 billion when entered into) term loan maturing on July 10, 2015. In March 2010 and December 2009 we made quarterly payments of $194 million and $192 million on the Canadian Loan. In April 2010 GMCL repaid in full
the outstanding amount of the Canadian Loan of $1.1 billion.   
         215

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes interest expense and interest paid on the Canadian Loan
and the EDC Loan Facility (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Canadian Loan.         

(b)  
  EDC Loan Facility.          GM
Daewoo Revolving Credit Facility        GM Daewoo s revolving credit facility was a Korean Won denominated facility
secured by substantially all of GM Daewoo s property, plants, and equipment. Amounts borrowed under this facility accrued interest based on the Korean Won denominated 91-day certificate of deposit rate. The facility was used by GM Daewoo for
general corporate purposes, including working capital needs. During 2010 GM Daewoo repaid in full its KRW 1.4 trillion (equivalent of $1.2 billion at the time of payment) revolving credit facility.   
    German Revolving Bridge Facility        In May 2009 Old GM entered into a revolving bridge facility with the German government and certain German states (German Facility) with a total commitment of up to Euro 1.5 billion (equivalent to $2.1
billion when entered into). In November 2009 the debt was paid in full and extinguished.      The following table summarizes
interest expense and interest paid on the German Facility, including amortization of related discounts (dollars in millions):       
      Other Long-Term
Debt         

216

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
     Technical Defaults and Covenant Violations     
  Several of our loan facilities require compliance with certain financial and operational covenants as well as regular reporting to
lenders, including providing certain subsidiary financial statements. Failure to meet certain of these requirements may result in a covenant violation or an event of default depending on the terms of the agreement. An event of default may allow
lenders to declare amounts outstanding under these agreements immediately due and payable, to enforce their interests against collateral pledged under these agreements or restrict our ability to obtain additional borrowings. No technical defaults or
covenant violations existed at December 31, 2010.       Automotive Financing    
    Credit Facilities        The following table summarizes details regarding terms and availability of GM Financial s credit facilities at December 31, 2010 (in millions):   

(a)  
  These amounts do not include cash collected on finance receivables pledged of $28 million which is included in GM Financial Restricted cash at December 31, 2010.

(b)  
  In February 2011 GM Financial extended the maturity date of the syndicated warehouse facility to May 2012 and increased the borrowing capacity to $2.0 billion from $1.3
billion.         

(c)  
  The revolving period under this facility has ended and the outstanding debt balance will be repaid over time based on the amortization of the receivables pledged until
October 2016 when any remaining amount outstanding will be due and payable.         

(d)  
  The revolving period under this facility has ended and the outstanding balance under the bank funding facilities are secured by asset-backed securities of $65 million.
       GM Financial s credit facilities are administered by agents on behalf of institutionally managed
commercial paper or medium-term note conduits. Under these funding agreements, GM Financial transfers finance receivables to its special purpose financing trusts. These subsidiaries, in turn, issue notes to the agents, collateralized by such finance
receivables and cash. The agents provide funding under the notes to the subsidiaries pursuant to an advance formula, and the subsidiaries forward the funds to GM Financial in consideration for the transfer of finance receivables. These subsidiaries
are separate legal entities and the finance receivables and other assets held by these subsidiaries are legally owned by these subsidiaries and are not available to GM Financial s creditors or their other subsidiaries. Advances under the
funding agreements bear interest at commercial paper, London Interbank Offered Rates (LIBOR) or prime rates plus a credit spread and specified fees depending upon the source of funds provided by the agents.   
   Credit Facility Covenants       GM Financial is required to hold certain funds in restricted cash accounts to provide additional collateral for borrowings under certain of its credit facilities. The credit facilities contain various
covenants requiring minimum financial ratios, asset quality and portfolio performance ratios including portfolio net loss and delinquency ratios, and pool level cumulative net loss ratios, as well as limits on deferment levels. Failure to meet any
of these covenants could result in an event of default under these agreements. If an   
         217

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

event of default occurs under these agreements, the lenders could elect to declare all amounts outstanding under these agreements to be immediately due and payable, enforce their interests
against collateral pledged under these agreements or restrict GM Financial s ability to obtain additional borrowings under this facility. At December 31, 2010 GM Financial was in compliance with all covenants in its credit facilities.
Refer to Note 15 for additional discussion on GM Financial s restricted cash.        Securitization Notes Payable
       Securitization notes payable represents debt issued by GM Financial in securitization transactions. Debt issuance
costs are amortized over the expected term of the securitizations on an effective yield basis. As a result of the acquisition, GM Financial recorded a purchase price premium of $133 million that is being amortized over the expected term of the
notes. At December 31, 2010 unamortized purchase price premium of $107 million is included in Securitization notes payable.      The following table summarizes securitization notes payable at December 31, 2010 (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Maturity date represents final legal maturity of securitization notes payable. Securitization notes payable are expected to be paid based on amortization of the finance
receivables pledged to the trusts.         

(b)  
  Note balance does not include asset-backed securities of $65 million pledged to the bank funding facilities.     

(c)  
  Transactions relate to certain special purpose financing trusts acquired by GM Financial.     
  At the time of securitization of finance receivables, GM Financial is required to pledge assets equal to a specified percentage of the
securitization pool to support the securitization transaction. The assets pledged consist of cash deposited to a restricted account and additional receivables delivered to the trust, which create overcollateralization. The securitization
transactions require the percentage of assets pledged to support the transaction to increase until a specified level is attained. Excess cash flows generated by the trusts are added to the restricted cash account or used to pay down outstanding debt
in the trusts, creating overcollateralization until the targeted percentage level of assets has been reached. Once the targeted percentage level of assets is reached and maintained, excess cash flows generated by the trusts are released to GM
Financial as distributions from trusts. As the balance of the securitization pool declines, the amount of pledged assets needed to maintain the required percentage level is reduced. Assets in excess of the required percentage are also released to GM
Financial as distributions from trusts.       Securitization Notes Payable Covenants    
  With respect to GM Financial s securitization transactions covered by a financial guaranty insurance policy, agreements with the
insurers provide that if portfolio performance ratios (delinquency, cumulative default or cumulative net loss) in a trust s pool of receivables exceed certain targets, the specified credit enhancement levels would be increased.   
         218

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   Agreements with GM Financial s financial guaranty insurance providers contain
additional specified targeted portfolio performance ratios that are higher than those described in the preceding paragraph. If, at any measurement date, the targeted portfolio performance ratios with respect to any insured trust were to exceed these
higher levels, provisions of the agreements permit GM Financial s financial guaranty insurance providers to declare the occurrence of an event of default and terminate GM Financial s servicing rights to the receivables transferred to that
trust. At December 31, 2010 no such servicing right termination events have occurred with respect to any of the trusts formed by GM Financial.        Senior Notes and Convertible Senior Notes        As a result of the
acquisition of AmeriCredit, the holders of the senior notes and the convertible senior notes had the right to require GM Financial to repurchase some or all of their notes as provided in the indentures for such notes. The repurchase dates for any
notes tendered to GM Financial pursuant to procedures previously delivered to holders of senior notes and convertible senior notes were December 3, 2010 with respect to the senior notes, and December 10, 2010 with respect to the
convertible senior notes. The repurchase price with respect to the senior notes is 101% of the principal amount of the notes plus accrued interest, and the repurchase price with respect to the convertible senior notes is the principal amount of the
notes plus accrued interest. Pursuant to the terms of the convertible senior notes indentures a payment of $0.69 per $1,000 of principal amount of the convertible senior notes due in 2011 and $0.81 per $1,000 of principal amount of the convertible
senior notes due in 2013 was made to those who elected to convert as a result of the acquisition. During the three months ended December 31, 2010 GM Financial repurchased convertible senior notes of $461 million and senior notes of $2 million.
      Long-Term Debt Maturities    
   Consolidated       The
following table summarizes long-term debt maturities including capital leases (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  GM Financial credit facilities and securitization notes payable are based on expected payoff date. Senior notes and convertible senior notes principal amounts are based
on maturity.        At December 31, 2010 future interest payments on automotive capital lease obligations was
$564 million. GM Financial does not have capital lease obligations at December 31, 2010.       Old GM    
    Secured Revolving Credit Facility, U.S. Term Loan and Secured Credit Facility     
  In March 2009 Old GM entered into an agreement to amend its $1.5 billion U.S. term loan. Because the terms of the amended U.S. term loan
were substantially different than the original terms, primarily due to the revised borrowing rate, Old GM accounted for the amendment as a debt extinguishment. As a result, Old GM recorded the amended U.S. term loan at fair value and recorded a gain
on the extinguishment of the original loan facility of $906 million in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009.   
         219

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   In connection with the Chapter 11 Proceedings, Old GM s $4.5 billion secured
revolving credit facility, $1.5 billion U.S. term loan and $125 million secured credit facility were paid in full on June 30, 2009. Old GM recorded a loss of $958 million in Reorganization gains, net related to the extinguishments of the debt
primarily due to the face value of the U.S. term loan exceeding the carrying amount.      Contractual interest expense not accrued
or recorded on pre-petition debt was $200 million in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 (includes contractual interest expense related to contingent convertible debt of $44 million).   
    Contingent Convertible Debt        Old GM adopted the provisions of ASC 470-20,  Debt with Conversion and Other Options  (ASC 470-20) in January 2009, with retrospective application to prior periods. At July 9, 2009 Old
GM s contingent convertible debt outstanding was $7.4 billion, comprised of principal of $7.9 billion and unamortized discounts of $551 million. Upon adoption of ASC 470-20, the effective interest rate on Old GM s outstanding contingent
convertible debt ranged from 7.0% to 7.9%. In connection with the 363 Sale, MLC retained the contingent convertible debt.      The
following table summarizes the components of Interest expense related to contingent convertible debt (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Contractual interest expense not accrued or recorded on pre-petition debt as a result of the Chapter 11 Proceedings totaled $44 million in the period January 1,
2009 through July 9, 2009.           Note 20. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits
       Consolidated    
   Employee Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Plans         Defined Benefit Pension Plans        Defined benefit pension plans
covering eligible U.S. hourly employees (hired prior to October 15, 2007) and Canadian hourly employees generally provide benefits of negotiated, stated amounts for each year of service and supplemental benefits for employees who retire with 30
years of service before normal retirement age. Non-skilled trades hourly U.S. employees hired after October 15, 2007 participate in a defined benefit cash balance plan. In September 2010 the U.S. hourly defined benefit pension plan was amended
to create a legally separate new defined benefit pension plan for the participants who are covered by the cash balance benefit formula. The underlying benefits offered to plan participants were unchanged. The benefits provided by the defined benefit
pension plans covering eligible U.S. (hired prior to January 1, 2001) and Canadian salaried employees and employees in certain other non-U.S. locations are generally based on years of service and compensation history. There is also an unfunded
nonqualified pension plan covering certain U.S. executives for service prior to January 1, 2007, and it is based on an  excess plan  for service after that date.   
    Defined Contribution Plans        The Savings-Stock Purchase Plan (S-SPP) is a defined contribution retirement savings plan for eligible U.S. salaried employees. The S-SPP provides discretionary matching contributions up to certain
predefined limits based upon eligible base salary. The matching contribution for the S-SPP was suspended by Old GM in November 2008, and we reinstated the matching contribution for   
         220

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

the S-SPP in October 2009. The contribution equal to 1.0% of eligible base salary for U.S. salaried employees with a service commencement date on or after January 1, 1993 was discontinued
effective on January 1, 2010. For eligible U.S. salaried employees with a service commencement date on or after January 1, 2001 a retirement contribution to the S-SPP equal to 4.0% of eligible base salary is provided. Contributions are
also made to certain non-U.S. defined contribution plans. Certain U.S. hourly employees are not eligible for postretirement healthcare. Such employees receive a $1.00 per compensated hour contribution into their Personal Saving Plan account.
     The following table summarizes contributions to defined contribution plans (dollars in millions):   
   
      Other
Postretirement Benefit Plans        Certain hourly and salaried defined benefit plans provide postretirement medical,
dental, legal service and life insurance to eligible U.S. and Canadian retirees and their eligible dependents. Certain other non-U.S. subsidiaries have postretirement benefit plans, although most non-U.S. employees are covered by government
sponsored or administered programs.       Significant Plan Amendments, Benefit Modifications and Related Events    
    Remeasurements        Significant interim remeasurements are included in the change in benefit obligation for the year ended December 31, 2010. There were no significant remeasurements, curtailments or settlements as a
result of changes to the underlying benefits offered to the plan participants.        Patient Protection and Affordable Care
Act        The Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act was signed into law in March 2010 and contains provisions that
require all future reimbursement receipts under the Medicare Part D retiree drug subsidy program to be included in taxable income. This taxable income inclusion will not significantly affect us because effective January 1, 2010 we no longer
provide prescription drug coverage to post-age 65 Medicare-eligible participants and we have a full valuation allowance against our net deferred tax assets in the U.S. We have assessed the other provisions of this new law, based on information known
at this time and we have included the effect, which is not significant, in our benefit obligations at December 31, 2010.   
    Expected Contributions        In January 2011 we completed the previously announced voluntary contribution of 61 million shares of our common stock to our U.S. hourly and salaried pension plans, valued at approximately $2.2
billion for funding purposes. This was a voluntary contribution that is above our minimum funding requirements of the pension plans. The contributed shares qualify as a plan asset for funding purposes immediately, and will qualify as a plan asset
for accounting purposes when certain transfer restrictions are removed, which is expected in 2011. We are evaluating whether we will make additional voluntary contributions to our U.S. pension plans in 2011. We expect to contribute $95 million to
our U.S. non-qualified pension plans and $740 million to our non-U.S. pension plans in 2011.   
         221

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following tables summarize the significant defined benefit plan interim
remeasurements, the related changes in accumulated postretirement benefit obligations (APBO), projected benefit obligations (PBO) and the associated curtailments, settlements and termination benefits recorded in our earnings in the period
July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 and the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009, which are subsequently discussed (dollars in millions):   

(a)  
  The increase (decrease) includes effect of the event, gain or loss from remeasurement, net periodic benefit cost and benefit payments. Excludes effect of asset returns
that are higher or lower than expected.         

(b)  
  Reflects the effect on PBO. There was no remeasurement.         

(c)  
  Includes reclassification of contingent liability to benefit plan obligation.     
         222

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  The increase (decrease) includes effect of the event, gain or loss from remeasurement, net periodic benefit cost, benefit payments and effect of foreign currency
translation. Excludes effect of asset returns that are higher or lower than expected.        During 2009 we and Old GM
implemented various programs which reduced the hourly and salary workforce. Significant workforce reductions, settlements of pre-bankruptcy claims with various represented employee groups and plan amendments resulted in plan remeasurements as
follows:       

Special attrition programs resulted in a reduction in the hourly workforce;      

Global salaried workforce actions reduced employment;      

The Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements were affected by the settlement of the PBGC claims from the termination of the hourly Delphi pension
plan. We maintained the obligation to provide the difference between the pension benefits paid by the PBGC and those originally guaranteed by Old GM under the Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements; and      

U.S. salaried benefit changes reduced the salaried life benefits and a negative amendment to the U.S. salaried retiree healthcare program
reduced coverage and increased cost sharing.           2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement
       In 2009 we and the UAW agreed to a 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement which permanently shifted responsibility for
providing retiree healthcare to the new plan funded by the New VEBA. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, we are released from UAW retiree healthcare claims incurred after December 31, 2009. All obligations of ours and any other entity
or benefit plan of   
         223

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

ours for retiree medical benefits for the class and the covered group arising from any agreement between us and the UAW terminated at December 31, 2009. Our obligations to the new healthcare
plan and the New VEBA are limited to the terms of the settlement agreement.      At December 31, 2009 we accounted for the
termination of our UAW hourly retiree medical plan and Mitigation Plan as a settlement. The resulting settlement loss of $2.6 billion recorded on December 31, 2009 represented the difference between the sum of the accrued OPEB liability of
$10.6 billion and the existing internal VEBA assets of $12.6 billion, and $25.8 billion representing the fair value of the consideration transferred on December 31, 2009, including the contribution of the existing internal VEBA assets. Upon the
settlement of the UAW hourly retiree medical plan at December 31, 2009 the VEBA Notes, Series A Preferred Stock, common stock, and warrants contributed to the New VEBA were recorded at fair value and classified as outstanding debt and equity
instruments.      Prior to December 31, 2009 the 260 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock issued to the New VEBA
were not considered outstanding for accounting purposes due to the terms of the settlement agreement with the UAW. As a result, $105 million of the $146 million of dividends paid on September 15, 2009 and $147 million of the $203 million of
dividends paid on December 15, 2009 were recorded as employer contributions resulting in a reduction of Postretirement benefits other than pensions.        IUE-CWA and USW Settlement Agreement        In September 2009 we entered
into a settlement agreement with MLC, The International Union of Electronic, Electrical, Salaried, Machine and Furniture Workers   Communication Workers of America (IUE-CWA) and United Steel, Paper and Forestry, Rubber, Manufacturing, Energy,
Allied Industrial and Service Workers International Union (USW). The approved settlement agreement resulted in remeasurements of the U.S. hourly defined benefit pension plan, the non-UAW hourly retiree healthcare plan and the U.S. hourly life plan
to reflect the terms of the agreement. The settlement agreement was expressly conditioned upon and did not become effective until approved by the Bankruptcy Court in MLC s Chapter 11 proceedings, which occurred in November 2009. Several
additional unions representing MLC hourly retirees joined the IUE-CWA and USW settlement agreement with respect to healthcare and life insurance. The remeasurement of these plans resulted in a decrease in a contingent liability accrual and an
offsetting increase in the PBO or APBO of the benefit plan.        2009 CAW Agreement     
  In March 2009 Old GM announced that the members of the CAW had ratified an agreement intended to reduce costs in Canada through
introducing co-payments for healthcare benefits, increasing employee healthcare cost sharing, freezing pension benefits and eliminating cost of living adjustments to pensions for retired hourly workers. The 2009 CAW Agreement was conditioned on Old
GM receiving longer term financial support from the Canadian and Ontario governments and those governments agreed to the terms of a loan agreement, approved the GMCL viability plan and provided funding to GMCL. The Canadian hourly defined benefit
pension plan was remeasured in June 2009.      The CAW hourly retiree healthcare plan and the CAW retiree life plan were also
remeasured in June 2009. Additionally, as a result of the termination of employees from the former Oshawa, Ontario truck facility, GMCL recorded a curtailment gain associated with the CAW hourly retiree healthcare plan.   
  In June 2009 GMCL and the CAW agreed to the terms of an independent HCT to provide retiree healthcare benefits to certain active and
retired employees and it will be implemented when certain preconditions are achieved. Certain of the preconditions have not been achieved and the HCT is not yet implemented at December 31, 2010. GMCL is obligated to make a payment of CAD $1.0
billion on the HCT implementation date which it will fund out of its CAD $1.0 billion escrow funds, adjusted for the net difference between the amount of retiree monthly contributions received during the period January 1, 2010 through the HCT
implementation date less the cost of benefits paid for claims incurred by covered employees during this period. GMCL will provide a CAD $800 million note payable to the HCT on the HCT implementation date which will accrue interest at an annual rate
of 7.0% with five equal annual installments of CAD $256 million due December 31 of 2014 through 2018. Concurrent with the implementation of the HCT,   
         224

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

GMCL will be legally released from all obligations associated with the cost of providing retiree healthcare benefits to CAW active and retired employees bound by the class action process, and we
will account for the related termination of CAW hourly retiree healthcare benefits as a settlement, based upon the difference between the fair value of the notes and cash contributed and the healthcare plan obligation at the settlement date. As a
result of the conditions precedent to this agreement not having yet been achieved, there was no accounting recognition for the healthcare trust at December 31, 2010.      The following tables summarize the change in benefit obligations and related plan assets (dollars in millions):       
 
         225

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  U.S. other benefits includes the $2.6 billion settlement loss resulting from the termination of the UAW hourly retiree medical plan and Mitigation Plan.
    
         226

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

In the year ended December 31, 2010 we experienced actual return on plan assets on our U.S. pension
plan assets of $11.6 billion compared to expected returns of $6.6 billion that were recognized as a component of our net pension expense. As a result of the U.S. hourly defined benefit pension plan interim remeasurement, a portion of the effect of
the actual plan asset gains was recognized in the market-related value of plan assets during the remainder of the period subsequent to the interim remeasurement. The market related   
         227

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

value of plan assets used in the calculation of expected return on pension plan assets at December 31, 2010 is $4.1 billion lower than the actual fair value of plan assets for U.S. pension
plans and $319 million lower than the actual fair value of plan assets for non-U.S. pension plans. Therefore, the effect of the improvement in the financial markets will not be fully reflected in net pension expense in the year ending
December 31, 2011. Refer to Note 4 for additional information on our use of the market-related value of plan assets accounting policy.      The following table summarizes the total accumulated benefit obligations (ABO), the fair value of plan assets for defined benefit pension plans with ABO in excess of plan assets, and the PBO and fair
value of plan assets for defined benefit pension plans with PBO in excess of plan assets (dollars in millions):       
    The following tables
summarize the components of net periodic pension and OPEB expense along with the assumptions used to determine benefit obligations (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  U.S. pension plan service cost includes plan administrative expenses of $97 million.     

(b)  
  Determined at the beginning of the period and updated for remeasurements.     
         228

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  U.S. pension plan service cost includes plan administrative expenses of $38 million.     

(b)  
  Determined at the beginning of the period and updated for remeasurements. Appropriate discount rates were used to measure the effects of curtailments and plan
amendments on various plans.     
         229

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  Determined at the beginning of the period and updated for remeasurements. Appropriate discount rates were used to measure the effects of curtailments and plan
amendments on various plans.     
         230

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Assumptions         Healthcare Trend Rate        As a result of modifications made to
healthcare plans in connection with the 363 Sale, there are no significant uncapped U.S. healthcare plans remaining, therefore, the healthcare cost trend rate does not have a significant effect on our U.S. plans.   

(a)  
  The implementation of the HCT in Canada is anticipated and will significantly reduce our exposure to changes in the healthcare cost trend rate.
       Healthcare trend rate assumptions are determined for inclusion in healthcare OPEB valuation at each
remeasurement. The healthcare trend rates are developed using historical cash expenditures and near-term outlook for retiree healthcare. This information is supplemented with information gathered from actuarial based models, information obtained
from healthcare providers and known significant events.      The following table summarizes the effect of a one-percentage point
change in the assumed healthcare trend rates (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  The implementation of the HCT in Canada is anticipated and will significantly reduce our exposure to changes in the healthcare cost trend rate.
         Investment Strategies and Long-Term Rate of Return     
  Detailed periodic studies conducted by outside actuaries and an internal asset management group, consisting of an analysis of capital
market assumptions and employing Monte-Carlo simulations, are used to determine the long-term strategic mix among asset classes, risk mitigation strategies, and the expected return on asset assumptions for U.S. pension plans. The U.S. study includes
a review of alternative asset allocation and risk mitigation strategies, anticipated future long-term performance of individual asset classes, risks evaluated using standard deviation techniques and correlations among the asset classes that comprise
the plans  asset mix. Similar studies are performed for the significant non-U.S. pension plans with the assistance of outside actuaries and asset managers. While the studies incorporate data from recent fund performance and historical returns,
the expected return on plan asset assumptions are determined based on long-term, prospective rates of return.      The strategic
asset mix and risk mitigation strategies for the U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans are tailored specifically for each plan. Individual plans have distinct liabilities, liquidity needs, and regulatory requirements. Consequently, there are different
investment policies set by individual plan fiduciaries. Although investment policies and risk mitigation strategies may differ among certain U.S. and non-U.S. pension plans, each investment strategy is considered to be optimal in the context of the
specific factors affecting each plan.   
         231

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   In setting a new strategic asset mix, consideration is given to the likelihood that the
selected mix will effectively fund the projected pension plan liabilities, while aligning with the risk tolerance of the plans  fiduciaries. The strategic asset mix for U.S. defined benefit pension plans is intended to reduce exposure to equity
market risks, to utilize asset classes which reduce volatility and to utilize asset classes where active management has historically generated above market returns.      In December 2010 an analysis of the investment policy was completed for the U.S. pension plans which reduced the expected return on assets to 8.0% from 8.5% at December 31, 2009. The decrease in
expected return on assets is primarily related to lower bond yields and updated assumptions for equities and equity-like asset classes. This analysis included a study of capital market assumptions and the selection of a policy portfolio that is
optimal in the context of the plans  fiduciaries objectives. The selected portfolio is composed of a number of asset classes with favorable return characteristics including: a significant allocation to debt securities with credit exposure, some
of which have expected returns that are similar to that of equities, significant exposures to private market securities (equity, debt, and real estate) and absolute return strategies (i.e., hedge fund strategies with low exposure to market risks).
The expected long-term rate of return assumption is enhanced by these diversified strategies and is consistent with the long-term historical return for the U.S. plans.      The expected return on plan asset assumptions used in determining pension expense for non-U.S. pension plans is determined in a similar manner to the U.S. plans, and the rate of 7.42% for the year ended
December 31, 2010 is a weighted-average of all of the funded non-U.S. plans.        Target Allocation Percentages
       Minor changes were made to the U.S. target allocation percentages by asset category as a result of the asset and
liability study that was approved in December 2010.      An asset and liability study conducted of the Canadian plans  target
allocation percentages was approved by GMCL s Board of Directors and became effective in July 2010. Significant changes were made to the target allocation percentages by asset category as a result of this study. The study was generated
following a contribution to the Canadian plans in September 2009 of CAD $4.0 billion which improved the funded position. A less aggressive asset mix was implemented to preserve this position by shifting the target allocation away from return seeking
equity type assets toward a liability hedging strategy that utilizes more fixed income assets.      The following table summarizes
the target allocations by asset category for U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans:       

(a)  
  Includes private equity and absolute return strategies.     
         232

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
     Pension Plan Assets and Fair Value Measurements     
  The following tables summarize the fair value of defined benefit pension plan assets by asset class (dollars in millions):   

(a)  
  Includes U.S. and sovereign government and agency issues; excludes mortgage and asset-backed securities.     

(b)  
  Includes bank debt obligations.         

(c)  
  Primarily investments in alternative investment funds.         

(d)  
  Refer to the subsequent discussion of Investment Trusts for the leveling of the underlying assets of the Investment Trusts.     

(e)  
  Cash held by the plans, net of amounts payable for investment manager fees, custody fees and other expenses.     
         233

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

234

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  Includes U.S. and sovereign government and agency issues; excludes mortgage and asset-backed securities.     

(b)  
  Includes bank debt obligations.         

(c)  
  Primarily investments in alternative investment funds.         

(d)  
  Refer to the subsequent discussion of Investment Trusts for the leveling of the underlying assets of the Investment Trusts.     

(e)  
  Cash held by the plans, net of amounts payable for investment manager fees, custody fees and other expenses.     
  The following table summarizes the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities owned by the non-U.S. plans by underlying risk
(dollars in millions):       
    The following tables summarize the activity for U.S. plan assets classified in Level 3, other than assets
held in Investment Trusts (dollars in millions):       

235

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following tables summarize the activity for non-U.S. plan assets classified in Level
3 (dollars in millions):       
 
         236

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

Transfers In and/or Out of Level 3     
  In the year ended December 31, 2010, fixed income funds of $4.2 billion within the U.S. plan assets were transferred out of Level 3
to Level 2. This resulted from management s ability to validate certain liquidity and redemption restrictions that permit the plans to redeem their interest in these investment funds in the near-term (generally within 90 days) at NAV.
     There were no significant transfers in and/or out of Level 3 within the non-U.S. plan assets.   
    Fund Investment Strategies        Cash equivalent funds asset class includes funds that primarily invest in short-term, high quality securities including U.S. government securities, U.S. dollar-denominated obligations of U.S. and foreign
depository institutions, commercial paper, corporate bonds and asset-backed securities.      Equity funds asset class includes
funds that primarily invest in U.S. equities as well as equity securities issued by companies incorporated, listed or domiciled in developed and/or emerging markets countries. Certain fund managers may attempt to profit from security mispricing in
equity markets. Equity long/short managers typically construct portfolios consisting of long and short positions, which may be determined by a variety of techniques including fundamental, quantitative, and technical analysis. Index funds, exchange
traded funds and derivatives may be used for hedging purposes to limit exposure to various risk factors.      Fixed income funds
asset class includes investments in high quality and high yield funds as well as in credit arbitrage funds. High quality fixed income funds primarily invest in U.S. government securities, investment-grade corporate bonds, mortgages and asset-backed
securities. High yield fixed income funds primarily invest in U.S. high yield fixed income securities issued by corporations which are rated below investment grade by one or more nationally recognized rating agencies, are unrated but are believed by
the investment manager to have similar risk characteristics or are rated investment grade or higher but are priced at yields comparable to   
         237

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

securities rated below investment grade and believed to have similar risk characteristics. Credit arbitrage funds typically invest in a variety of credit and credit-related instruments that allow
fund managers to profit from mispricing of these credit instruments. Certain derivatives may be used for hedging purposes by some fixed income fund managers to limit exposure to various risk factors.   
  Funds of hedge funds asset class includes funds that primarily invest in a portfolio of alternative investment funds. Funds of hedge fund
managers typically seek to achieve their objectives by allocating capital across a broad array of alternative investment funds and/or investment managers.      Global macro funds asset class includes funds that primarily enter into leveraged transactions utilizing a variety of equity, fixed income and derivative instruments to benefit from anticipated price
movements of stock, interest rates, foreign exchange currencies, and physical commodities markets while minimizing downside risk. Global macro managers employ a global approach and may invest in a variety of markets to participate in expected market
movements.      Multi-strategy funds asset class includes funds that invest in broadly diversified portfolios of equity, fixed
income and derivative instruments. Certain funds may also employ multiple alternative investment strategies, in combination, such as global macro, event-driven (which seeks to profit from opportunities created by significant transactional events
such as spin-offs, mergers and acquisitions, bankruptcy reorganizations, recapitalizations and share buybacks), and relative value (which seeks to take advantage of pricing discrepancies between instruments including equities, debt, options and
futures).      Real estate funds asset class includes funds that primarily invest in entities which are principally engaged in the
ownership, acquisition, development, financing, sale and/or management of income-producing real estate properties, both commercial and residential. These funds typically seek long-term growth of capital and current income that is above average
relative to public equity funds.      Other investment funds generally consist of funds that employ broad-ranging strategies and
styles. The objective of such funds is to deliver returns having relatively low volatility and correlation to movements in major equity and bond markets. Funds in this category typically employ single strategies such as event-driven or relative
value.        Investment Trusts        A significant portion of the U.S. hourly and salaried pension plan assets are invested through a series of group trusts (Investment Trusts) which permit the commingling of assets from more than one
employer. The group trust structure permitted the formation of a series of group trust investment accounts. Each group trust has a beneficial interest in the assets of the underlying investment accounts which are invested to achieve an investment
strategy based on the desired plan asset targeted allocations. For purposes of fair value measurement, each plan s interests in the group trusts are classified as a plan asset.   
  A plan s interest in an Investment Trust is determined based on the Investment Trust s beneficial interest in the underlying
net assets. Beneficial interests in the individual Investment Trusts owned by the plans were 99.0% and 97.4% on a combined basis at December 31, 2010 and 2009.      The following table summarizes the U.S. plans  interest in certain net assets of the Investment Trusts (dollars in millions):   

238

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following tables summarize the fair value of the underlying net assets by asset
class held by the investment accounts owned by the Investment Trusts (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Underlying assets are reported at the overall trust level, which includes our plan assets as well as plan assets of non-affiliated plan sponsors.

(b)  
  Includes U.S. and sovereign government and agency issues; excludes mortgage and asset-backed securities.     

(c)  
  Includes bank debt obligations.         

(d)  
  Includes public real estate investment trusts.         

(e)  
  Primarily investments sold short.     
         239

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  Underlying assets are reported at the overall trust level, which includes our plan assets as well as plan assets of non-affiliated plan sponsors.

(b)  
  Includes U.S. and sovereign government and agency issues; excludes mortgage and asset-backed securities.     

(c)  
  Includes bank debt obligations.         

(d)  
  Includes public real estate investment trusts.         

(e)  
  Primarily investments sold short.     
         240

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes the fair value of derivative assets and liabilities owned
by the Investment Trusts by underlying risk (dollars in millions):       
    The following tables summarize the activity of the underlying net assets of the Investment Trusts classified
in Level 3 (dollars in millions):       
 
         241

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

242

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
     Investment Trusts Transfers In and/or Out of Level 3     
  During the year ended December 31, 2010 significant transfers out of Level 3 to Level 2 included government and agency debt
securities of $1.3 billion, corporate debt securities of $0.7 billion and non-agency mortgage and asset-backed securities of $0.7 billion. These transfers were primarily the result of improved pricing transparency of these securities, which allowed
management to corroborate observable pricing inputs received from independent pricing services.      During the year ended
December 31, 2010 investment funds of $0.6 billion were transferred out of Level 3 to Level 2. This resulted from management s ability to validate certain liquidity and redemption restrictions that permit the Investment Trusts to redeem
their interest in these investment funds in the near-term (generally within 90 days) at NAV.        OPEB Plan Assets and Fair
Value Measurements        As a result of the December 31, 2009 UAW hourly retiree medical plan settlement, there were
no significant OPEB plan assets at December 31, 2010.      The following table summarizes the fair value of OPEB plan assets
by asset category (dollars in millions):       
    The following tables summarize the activity for the OPEB plan assets classified in Level 3 (dollars in
millions):       
 
         243

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

Significant Concentrations of Risk     
  The pension plans  Investment Trusts include investments in certain investment funds, equity, debt and real estate investments and
derivative instruments. Some or all of these investments may be illiquid. The investment managers may be unable to quickly liquidate some or all of these investments at an amount close or equal to fair value in order to meet a plan s liquidity
requirements or to respond to specific events such as deterioration in the creditworthiness of any particular issuer or counterparty.      Illiquid investments held in the Investment Trusts are generally long-term investments that complement the long-term nature of pension obligations and are not used to fund benefit payments when currently
due. Plan management monitors liquidity risk on an ongoing basis and has procedures in place that are designed to maintain flexibility in addressing plan-specific, broader industry and market liquidity events.   
  Certain assets held by the Investment Trusts represent investments in group annuity contracts. We entered into group annuity contracts
with various life insurance companies to provide pension benefits to certain of our salaried workforce and backed these obligations by high quality fixed income securities. We, as the plans  sponsor, might be exposed to counterparty risk if any
or all of the life insurance companies fail to perform in accordance with the terms and conditions stipulated in the contracts, or any or all of the life insurance companies become insolvent or experience other forms of financial distress. We and
the plans might also be exposed to liquidity risk due to the funding obligation that may arise under these contracts. The plans  management monitors counterparty and liquidity risks on an on-going basis and has procedures in place that are
designed to monitor the financial performance of the life insurance companies that are parties to these contracts and maintain flexibility in addressing contract-specific and broader market events.   
  The pension plans  Investment Trusts may contain financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies. Consequently, the plans
might be exposed to risks that the foreign currency exchange rates might change in a manner that has an adverse effect on the value of the Investment Trusts  foreign currency denominated assets or liabilities. The Investment Trusts use forward
currency contracts to manage foreign currency risk.      The pension plans  Investment Trusts may invest in fixed income
securities for which any change in the relevant interest rates for particular securities might result in an investment manager being unable to secure similar returns upon the maturity or the sale of securities. In addition, changes to prevailing
interest rates or changes in expectations of future interest rates might result in an increase or decrease in the fair value of the securities held. The plans  Investment Trusts may use interest rate swaps and other financial derivative
instruments to manage interest rate risk.      Counterparty credit risk is the risk that a counterparty to a financial instrument
held by the Investment Trusts will default on its commitment. Counterparty risk is primarily related to over-the-counter derivative instruments used to manage risk exposures related   
         244

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

to interest rates on long-term debt securities and foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The risk of default can be influenced by various factors including macro-economic conditions,
market liquidity, fiscal and monetary policies and counterparty-specific characteristics and activities. Certain agreements with counterparties employ set-off, collateral support arrangements and other risk mitigating procedures designed to reduce
the net exposure to credit risk in the event of counterparty default. Credit policies and processes are in place to manage concentrations of counterparty risk by seeking to undertake transactions with large well-capitalized counterparties and by
monitoring the creditworthiness of these counterparties.       Plan Funding Policy and Contributions    
  The funding policy for qualified defined benefit pension plans is to contribute annually not less than the minimum required by applicable
law and regulations or to directly pay benefit payments where appropriate. At December 31, 2010, all legal funding requirements had been met.      The following table summarizes pension contributions to the defined benefit pension plans or direct payments to plan beneficiaries (dollars in millions):   
   
     Required Pension Funding Obligations       We do not have any required contributions due to our U.S. qualified plans in 2011. The next pension funding valuation to be prepared based on the requirements of the Pension Protection Act (PPA) of 2006
will be as of October 1, 2010. Based on the PPA, we have the option to select a funding interest rate for the valuation based on either the Full Yield Curve method or the 3-Segment method, both of which are considered to be acceptable methods.
A hypothetical funding valuation at December 31, 2010, using the 3-Segment rate at May 31, 2010 for the funding plan year beginning October 1, 2010 and assuming the December 31, 2010 Full Yield Curve funding interest rate for all
future funding valuations projects contributions of $2.3 billion, and $1.2 billion in 2015 and 2016. Alternatively, a hypothetical funding valuation at December 31, 2010 using the 3-Segment rate at May 31, 2010 for the funding plan year
beginning October 1, 2010 and assuming the December 31, 2010 3-Segment interest rate for all future funding valuations projects contributions of $0.3 billion in 2016. In both cases, we have assumed that the pension plans earn the expected
return of 8.0%. In addition to the discount rate and return on assets, the pension contributions could be affected by various other factors including the effect of any legislative changes. We are evaluating whether we will make additional voluntary
contributions in 2011.      In July 2009 $862 million was deposited into an escrow account pursuant to an agreement among Old GM,
EDC and an escrow agent. In July 2009 we subscribed for additional common shares in GMCL and paid the subscription price in cash. As required under certain agreements among GMCL, EDC, and an escrow agent, $3.6 billion of the subscription price was
deposited into an escrow account to fund certain of GMCL s pension plans and HCT obligations pending completion of certain preconditions. In September 2009 GMCL contributed $3.0 billion to the Canadian hourly defined benefit pension plan and
$651 million to the Canadian salaried defined benefit pension plan, of which $2.7 billion was funded from the escrow account. In accordance with the terms of the escrow agreement, $903 million was released from the escrow account to us in September
2009. At December 31, 2010 $1.0 billion remained in the escrow account.   
         245

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    OPEB Contributions       The following table summarizes contributions (withdrawals) to the U.S. OPEB plans (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Both the U.S. non-UAW hourly and salaried VEBAs were effectively liquidated by December 31, 2008 resulting in withdrawals from plan assets.
        Benefit Payments       The following table summarizes net benefit payments expected to be paid in the future, which include assumptions related to estimated future employee service, but does not reflect the effect of the 2009
CAW Agreement which provides for our independent HCT (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Benefits for most U.S. pension plans and certain non-U.S. pension plans are paid out of plan assets rather than our cash and cash equivalents.     

(b)  
  Benefit payments presented in this table reflect the effect of the implementation of the 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement which releases us from UAW retiree
healthcare claims incurred after December 31, 2009.           Note 21. Derivative Financial
Instruments and Risk Management        Automotive         Derivatives and Hedge Accounting        We are party to a variety of
foreign currency exchange rate and commodity derivative contracts entered into in connection with the management of exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and certain commodity prices.   
  Our derivative instruments consist of derivative contracts or economic hedges, including forward contracts and options that we acquired
from Old GM or purchased directly from counterparties. At December 31, 2010 and 2009 no outstanding derivative contracts were designated in hedging relationships other than those derivative contracts designated in a hedging relationship by GM
Financial.   
         246

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

Refer to Note 24 for additional information on the fair value measurements of our derivative instruments. Refer to Note 4 for additional information on our derivatives accounting policy.
       Counterparty Credit Risk        Derivative financial instruments contain an element of credit risk attributable to the counterparties  ability to meet the terms of the agreements. Since August 2010 we executed new agreements with
counterparties that will require, under certain circumstances, that the counterparty post collateral with us for net asset positions. At December 31, 2010 we held collateral of $74 million from counterparties and recorded the related obligation
in Accrued liabilities. The maximum amount of loss due to credit risk that we would incur if the counterparties to the derivative instruments failed completely to perform according to the terms of the contract was $143 million at
December 31, 2010. Agreements are entered into with counterparties that allow the set-off of certain exposures in order to manage the risk. At December 31, 2010 the total net derivative asset position for all counterparties with which we
were in a net asset position, less the collateral we held, was $108 million.      At December 31, 2010 a majority of all
derivative counterparty exposures were with counterparties that were rated A or higher.        Credit Risk Related Contingent
Features        Certain of our agreements with counterparties require that we provide cash collateral for net liability
positions that we may have with such counterparty. At December 31, 2010 no collateral was posted related to derivative instruments, and we did not have any agreements with counterparties to derivative instruments containing covenants requiring
the maintenance of certain credit rating levels or credit risk ratios that would require the posting of collateral in the event that such covenants are violated.        Fair Value of Derivatives        The following table summarizes the fair
value of our derivative instruments (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Current portion recorded in Other current assets and deferred income taxes     

(b)  
  Non-current portion recorded in Other assets.         

(c)  
  Current portion recorded in Accrued liabilities.         

(d)  
  Non-current portion recorded in Other liabilities and deferred income taxes.     
         247

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
     Gains and (Losses) on Derivatives     
  The following table summarizes derivative gains and (losses) recorded in earnings (dollars in millions):   

Successor   

Year
Ended     December 31, 2010   

July 10,
2009     Through     December 31, 2009   

Foreign Currency Exchange Derivatives    

Interest income and other non-operating income, net   
      
  $  
  82  

$  
  279  

Interest Rate Swap Derivatives    

Automotive interest expense   

(1  
  )    
 
     Commodity Derivatives    

Interest income and other non-operating income, net   

(33  
  )   

Warrants    

Interest income and other non-operating income, net   

19  

Total gains (losses) recorded in earnings   
      
  $  
  68  

$  
  278  

Commodity Notionals        The following table summarizes the notional amounts of our commodity derivative contracts (units in thousands):       
      Foreign
Currency Exchange Notionals        The following table summarizes the total notional amounts of our foreign currency
exchange derivatives (dollars in millions):       
    In 2010 we entered
into a long-term supply agreement which provides for pricing to be partially denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the parties to the contract. This pricing feature was determined to be an embedded derivative which we have
bifurcated for valuation and accounting purposes. The fair value of this embedded derivative was insignificant as of December 31, 2010.   
         248

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
     Other Derivatives     
  In September 2009 in connection with an agreement with American Axle, we received warrants to purchase 4 million shares of American
Axle common stock exercisable at $2.76 per share. Gains and losses related to these warrants were recorded in Interest income and other non-operating income, net. At December 31, 2010 the fair value of these warrants was $44 million. In
February 2011 we exercised the warrants and sold the shares and received proceeds of $48 million.      In connection with our
investment in New Delphi, which we account for using the equity method, we record our share of New Delphi s Other comprehensive income (loss) in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). In the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009
we recorded cash flow hedge losses of $22 million and $1 million related to our share of New Delphi s hedging losses.       Automotive
Financing       GM Financial is exposed to market risks arising from adverse changes in interest rates due to floating interest
rate exposure on its credit facilities and on certain securitization notes payable.      The effect of derivative instruments on
earnings and Accumulated other comprehensive income was insignificant for the three months ended December 31, 2010.      The
following table summarizes interest rate swaps, caps and foreign currency exchange derivatives (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Recorded in GM Financial Other assets.         

(b)  
  Recorded in GM Financial Other liabilities.         

(c)  
  Notional has been translated from Canadian dollars to U.S. dollars at the December 31, 2010 rate.     
    Credit Risk Related Contingent Features        Under the terms of our derivative financial instruments, GM Financial is required to pledge certain funds to be held in restricted cash accounts as collateral for the outstanding derivative transactions.
As of December 31, 2010, these restricted cash accounts totaled $33 million and are included in GM Financial Restricted cash.   
         249

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Old GM         Derivatives and Hedge Accounting         Derivatives Not Designated for
Hedge Accounting       Old GM previously entered into a variety of foreign currency exchange, interest rate and commodity
forward contracts and options to maintain a desired level of exposure arising from market risks resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and certain commodity prices.   
  In May 2009 Old GM reached agreements with certain of the counterparties to its derivative contracts to terminate the derivative
contracts prior to stated maturity. Commodity, foreign currency exchange and interest rate forward contracts were settled for cash of $631 million, resulting in a loss of $537 million. The loss was recorded in Automotive sales, Automotive cost of
sales and Automotive interest expense in the amounts of $22 million, $457 million and $58 million.      When an exposure
economically hedged with a derivative contract was no longer forecasted to occur, in some cases a new derivative instrument was entered into to offset the exposure related to the existing derivative instrument. In some cases, counterparties were
unwilling to enter into offsetting derivative instruments and, as such, there was exposure to future changes in the fair value of these derivatives with no underlying exposure to offset this risk.   
  The following table summarizes gains and (losses) recorded for derivatives originally entered into to hedge exposures that subsequently
became probable not to occur (dollars in millions):       
     Gains and (Losses)
on Derivatives       The following table summarizes derivative gains and (losses) recorded in earnings (dollars in millions):

Predecessor   

January 1, 
2009     Through     July 9, 2009   

Foreign Currency Exchange Derivatives    

Automotive sales   
      
  $  
  (688  
  )    
 
    Automotive cost of sales   

(211  
  )    
 
    Interest income and other non-operating income, net   

91  

Interest Rate Swap Derivatives    

Automotive interest expense   

(38  
  )    
 
     Commodity Derivatives    

Automotive cost of sales   

(332  
  )    
 
     Warrants    

Interest income and other non-operating income, net   

164  

Total gains (losses) recorded in earnings   
      
  $  
  (1,014  
  )    

In connection with the UST Loan Agreement, Old GM granted warrants to the UST for 122 million shares of
its common stock exercisable at $3.57 per share. Old GM recorded the warrants as a liability and recorded gains and losses related to this derivative in Interest income and other non-operating income, net. In connection with the 363 Sale, the UST
returned the warrants and they were cancelled.   
         250

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Cash Flow Hedges    
  Old GM previously designated certain financial instruments as cash flow hedges to manage its exposure to certain foreign currency
exchange risks. For foreign currency transactions, Old GM typically hedged forecasted exposures for up to three years in the future. For foreign currency exposure on long-term debt, Old GM typically hedged exposures for the life of the debt.
     On October 1, 2008 Old GM ceased hedge accounting treatment for derivatives that were previously designated as
qualifying cash flow hedges. Subsequent to that date Old GM recorded gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments in earnings, resulting in a net gain of $157 million in the three months ended
December 31, 2008. This gain was recorded in Automotive sales and Automotive cost of sales in the amounts of $127 million and $30 million.      The following table summarizes financial statement classification and amounts reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into earnings related to effective cash flow hedging
relationships (dollars in millions):       
    Hedge ineffectiveness related to instruments designated as cash flow hedges was insignificant in the year
ended December 31, 2008.      In connection with the Chapter 11 Proceedings, at June 1, 2009 Accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) balances of $247 million associated with previously designated financial instruments were reclassified into Reorganization gains, net because the underlying forecasted debt and interest payments were probable not to
occur.      The following table summarizes gains and (losses) that were reclassified from Accumulated other comprehensive income
(loss) for cash flow hedges associated with previously forecasted transactions that subsequently became probable not to occur (dollars in millions):       
 
         251

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Net Change in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)    
  The following table summarizes the net change in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) related to cash flow hedging activities
(dollars in millions):       
    In connection with our application of fresh-start reporting, the remaining previously deferred cash flow
hedging gains and losses of $391 million in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were adjusted to $0 at July 10, 2009.       Fair Value Hedges       Old GM previously used interest rate swaps designated
as fair value hedges to manage certain of its exposures associated with its borrowings. Old GM hedged its exposures to the maturity date of the underlying interest rate exposure.   
  Gains and losses on derivatives designated and qualifying as fair value hedges, as well as the offsetting gains and losses on the debt
attributable to the hedged interest rate risk, were recorded in Automotive interest expense to the extent the hedge was effective. The gains and losses related to the hedged interest rate risk were recorded as an adjustment to the carrying amount of
the debt. Previously recorded adjustments to the carrying amount of the debt were amortized to Automotive interest expense over the remaining debt term. In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Old GM amortized an insignificant
amount of previously deferred fair value hedge gains and losses to Automotive interest expense. Old GM recorded no hedging ineffectiveness in the year ended December 31, 2008.   
  On October 1, 2008 Old GM ceased hedge accounting treatment for derivatives that were previously designated as qualifying fair value
hedges. Subsequent to this date Old GM recorded gains and losses arising from changes in the fair value of the derivative instruments in earnings, resulting in a net gain of $279 million recorded in Automotive interest expense in the three months
ended December 31, 2008.      In connection with the Chapter 11 Proceedings, at June 1, 2009 Old GM had basis
adjustments of $18 million to the carrying amount of debt that ceased to be amortized to Automotive interest expense. At June 1, 2009 the debt related to these basis adjustments was classified as Liabilities subject to compromise and no longer
subject to interest accruals or amortization. We did not assume this debt from Old GM in connection with the 363 Sale.       Net
Investment Hedges       Old GM was subject to foreign currency exposure related to net investments in certain foreign
operations and used foreign currency denominated debt to hedge this exposure. For nonderivative instruments that were designated as, and qualified as, a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation, the effective portion of the unrealized and
realized gains and losses were recorded as a Foreign currency translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). In connection with the 363 Sale, MLC retained the foreign currency denominated debt and it ceased to operate as a
hedge of net investments in foreign operations. In connection with our application of fresh-start reporting, the effective portions of unrealized gains and losses previously recorded to Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) were adjusted to
$0 at July 10, 2009.   
         252

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes the gains related to net investment hedges recorded as a
Foreign currency translation adjustment in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (dollars in millions):       
      Derivatives Not
Meeting a Scope Exception from Fair Value Accounting        Old GM previously entered into purchase contracts that were
accounted for as derivatives with changes in fair value recorded in Automotive cost of sales, as these contracts did not qualify for the normal purchases and normal sales scope exception in ASC 815,  Derivatives and Hedging.  Certain of
these contracts were terminated in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009. MLC retained the remainder of these purchase contracts in connection with the 363 Sale.         Note 22. Commitments and Contingencies        Consolidated
      The following tables summarize information related to commitments and contingencies (dollars in millions):   

(a)  
  Calculated as future undiscounted payments.         

(b)  
  Excludes residual support and risk sharing programs and vehicle repurchase obligations related to Ally Financial.     

(c)  
  At December 31, 2009 includes $127 million related to a guarantee provided to Ally Financial in Brazil in connection with dealer floor plan financing. This
guarantee is collateralized by an interest in certificates of deposit of $127 million purchased from Ally Financial to which we have title and which were recorded in Restricted cash and marketable securities. The purchase of the certificates of
deposit was funded in part by contributions from dealers for which we had recorded a corresponding deposit liability of $104 million, which was recorded in Other liabilities. In the year ended December 31, 2010 this guarantee was terminated.

253

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(b)  
  Redemption liabilities are recorded in Accrued liabilities.         

(c)  
  Deferred revenue is recorded in Other liabilities and deferred income taxes. At December 31, 2010 and 2009 deferred revenue includes an unfavorable contract
liability recorded in applying fresh-start reporting at July 10, 2009.         

(d)  
  Includes $45 million and $28 million recorded in Accrued liabilities at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the remainder was recorded in Other liabilities and
deferred income taxes.         

(e)  
  Consists primarily of tax related litigation not recorded pursuant to ASC 740 as well as various non-U.S. labor related matters.     
   Guarantees       We have
provided guarantees related to the residual value of certain operating leases. These guarantees terminate in years ranging from 2011 to 2035. Certain leases contain renewal options.   
  We have agreements with third parties that guarantee the fulfillment of certain suppliers  commitments and other obligations. These
guarantees expire in years ranging from 2011 to 2015, or upon the occurrence of specific events.      In some instances, certain
assets of the party whose debt or performance we have guaranteed may offset, to some degree, the cost of the guarantee. The offset of certain of our payables to guaranteed parties may also offset certain guarantees, if triggered.   
  We also provide payment guarantees on commercial loans made by Ally Financial and outstanding with certain third parties, such as dealers
or rental car companies. These guarantees either expire in years ranging from 2012 to 2029 or are ongoing. We determined the value ascribed to the guarantees to be insignificant based on the credit worthiness of the third parties. Refer to Note 32
for additional information on guarantees that we provide to Ally Financial.      In connection with certain divestitures of assets
or operating businesses, we have entered into agreements indemnifying certain buyers and other parties with respect to environmental conditions pertaining to real property we owned. We have provided guarantees with respect to benefits to be paid to
former employees of divested businesses relating to pensions, postretirement healthcare and life insurance. We periodically enter into agreements that incorporate indemnification provisions in the normal course of business. It is not possible to
estimate our maximum exposure under these indemnifications or guarantees due to the conditional nature of these obligations. No amounts have been recorded for such obligations as they are not probable or estimable at this time, and the fair value of
the guarantees at issuance was insignificant.      In addition to the guarantees and indemnifying agreements mentioned previously,
we periodically enter into agreements that incorporate indemnification provisions in the normal course of business. Due to the nature of these agreements, the maximum potential amount of future undiscounted payments to which we may be exposed cannot
be estimated. No amounts have been recorded for such indemnities as our obligations under them are not probable or estimable at this time, and the fair value of the guarantees at issuance was insignificant.   
  In addition to the guarantees and indemnifying agreements previously discussed, we indemnify dealers for certain product liability
related claims as subsequently discussed.      With respect to other product-related claims involving products manufactured by
certain joint ventures, we believe that costs incurred are adequately covered by recorded accruals. These guarantees expire in 2020.   
         254

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Credit Card Programs       Credit card programs offer rebates that can be applied primarily against the purchase or lease of our vehicles.       Environmental Liability       In connection with the 363 Sale, we acquired
certain properties that are subject to environmental remediation.      Automotive operations, like operations of other companies
engaged in similar businesses, are subject to a wide range of environmental protection laws, including laws regulating air emissions, water discharges, waste management and environmental remediation. We are in various stages of investigation or
remediation for sites where contamination has been alleged. We are and Old GM was involved in a number of actions to remediate hazardous wastes as required by federal and state laws. Such statutes require that responsible parties fund remediation
actions regardless of fault, legality of original disposal or ownership of a disposal site.      The future effect of
environmental matters, including potential liabilities, is often difficult to estimate. An environmental reserve is recorded when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. This
practice is followed whether the claims are asserted or unasserted. Liabilities have been recorded for the expected costs to be paid over the periods of remediation for the applicable sites, which typically range from 5 to 30 years.   
  For many sites, the remediation costs and other damages for which we ultimately may be responsible may vary because of uncertainties with
respect to factors such as the connection to the site or to materials there, the involvement of other potentially responsible parties, the application of laws and other standards or regulations, site conditions, and the nature and scope of
investigations, studies and remediation to be undertaken (including the technologies to be required and the extent, duration and success of remediation).      The final outcome of environmental matters cannot be predicted with certainty at this time. Accordingly, it is possible that the resolution of one or more environmental matters could exceed the amounts
accrued in an amount that could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. At December 31, 2010 we estimate the remediation losses could range from $150 million to $370 million.   
   Product Liability       With
respect to product liability claims involving our and Old GM s products, it is believed that any judgment against us for actual damages will be adequately covered by our recorded accruals and, where applicable, excess insurance coverage.
Although punitive damages are claimed in some of these lawsuits, and such claims are inherently unpredictable, accruals incorporate historic experience with these types of claims. Liabilities have been recorded for the expected cost of all known
product liability claims plus an estimate of the expected cost for all product liability claims that have already been incurred and are expected to be filed in the future for which we are self-insured. These amounts were recorded in Accrued
liabilities and exclude Old GM s asbestos claims, which are discussed separately.      In accordance with our assumption of
dealer sales and service agreements, we indemnify dealers for certain product liability related claims. Our experience related to dealer indemnification obligations where we are not a party arising from incidents prior to July 10, 2009 is
limited. We monitor actual claims experience for consistency with this estimate and make periodic adjustments as appropriate. Since July 10, 2009, the volume of product liability claims against us has been less than projected. In addition, as
of this time due to the relatively short period for which we have been directly responsible for such claims, we have fewer pending matters than Old GM had in the past and than we expect in the future. Based on both management judgments concerning
the projected number and value of both dealer indemnification obligations and product liability claims against us, we have estimated the associated liability. We have lowered our overall product liability estimate for dealer indemnifications and our
exposure in the year ended December 31, 2010 resulting in a $132 million favorable adjustment driven primarily by a lower than expected volume of claims. We expect our product liability reserve to rise in future periods as new claims arise from
incidents subsequent to July 9, 2009.   
         255

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Liability Related to Contingently Issuable Shares    
  We are obligated to issue Adjustment Shares of our common stock to MLC in the event that allowed general unsecured claims against MLC, as
estimated by the Bankruptcy Court, exceed $35.0 billion. The maximum number of Adjustment Shares issuable is 30 million shares (subject to adjustment to take into account stock dividends, stock splits and other transactions). The number of
Adjustment Shares to be issued is calculated based on the extent to which estimated general unsecured claims exceed $35.0 billion with the maximum number of Adjustment Shares issued if estimated general unsecured claims total $42.0 billion or more.
In the period July 10, 2009 to December 31, 2009 we determined that it was probable that general unsecured claims allowed against MLC would ultimately exceed $35.0 billion by at least $2.0 billion. In that circumstance, we would have been
required to issue 8.6 million Adjustment Shares to MLC as an adjustment to the purchase price. At December 31, 2009 we recorded a liability of $162 million included in Accrued liabilities. In the year ended December 31, 2010 the
liability was adjusted quarterly based on available information. Based on information which became available in the three months ended December 31, 2010, we concluded it was no longer probable that general unsecured claims would exceed $35.0
billion, and we reversed to income our previously recorded liability of $231 million for the contingently issuable Adjustment Shares which is recorded in Interest income and other non-operating income, net. We believe it is reasonably possible that
general unsecured claims allowed against MLC will range between $32.5 billion and $36.0 billion.       Other Litigation-Related Liability and
Tax Administrative Matters       Various legal actions, governmental investigations, claims and proceedings are pending against
us or MLC including a number of shareholder class actions, bondholder class actions and class actions under ERISA and other matters arising out of alleged product defects, including asbestos-related claims; employment-related matters; governmental
regulations relating to safety, emissions, and fuel economy; product warranties; financial services; dealer, supplier and other contractual relationships; tax-related matters not recorded pursuant to ASC 740 and environmental matters.   
  With regard to the litigation matters discussed in the previous paragraph, reserves have been established for matters in which it is
believed that losses are probable and can be reasonably estimated, the majority of which are associated with tax-related matters not recorded pursuant to ASC 740 as well as various non-U.S. labor-related matters. Tax related matters not recorded
pursuant to ASC 740 (indirect tax-related matters) are items being litigated globally pertaining to value added taxes, customs, duties, sales, property taxes and other non-income tax related tax exposures. The various non-U.S. labor-related matters
include claims from current and former employees related to alleged unpaid wage, benefit, severance, and other compensation matters. Certain South American administrative proceedings are indirect tax-related and may require that we deposit funds in
escrow; such escrow deposits may range from $560 million to $760 million. Some of the matters may involve compensatory, punitive, or other treble damage claims, environmental remediation programs, or sanctions, that if granted, could require us to
pay damages or make other expenditures in amounts that could not be reasonably estimated at December 31, 2010. We believe that appropriate accruals have been established for such matters based on information currently available. Reserves for
litigation losses are recorded in Accrued liabilities and Other liabilities and deferred income taxes. These accrued reserves represent the best estimate of amounts believed to be our liability in a range of expected losses. Litigation is inherently
unpredictable, however, and unfavorable resolutions could occur. Accordingly, it is possible that an adverse outcome from such proceedings could exceed the amounts accrued in an amount that could be material to our financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows in any particular reporting period.      Commencing on or about September 29, 2010, current and
former hourly employees of GM Daewoo, our majority-owned affiliate in the Republic of Korea, filed six separate group actions in the Incheon District Court in Incheon, Korea. The cases allege that GM Daewoo failed to include certain allowances in
its calculation of Ordinary Wages due under the Presidential Decree of the Korean Labor Standards Act. Similar cases have been brought against other large employers in the Republic of Korea. At December 31, 2010 GM Daewoo accrued 122 billion
Korean Won (equivalent to $110 million) in connection with these cases (70% of which was recorded in Net income attributable to stockholders, based on our ownership interest in GM Daewoo). The current estimate of the value of plaintiffs  claim,
if allowed in full, exceeds the accrual by 395 billion Korean Won (equivalent to $344 million). GM Daewoo believes the claims in excess of the accrual are without merit but, given the inherent uncertainties of the litigation process and further
  
         256

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

uncertainties arising because this litigation is at its earliest stages, this amount represents the high end of the range of reasonably possible liability exposure. Both the scope of claims
asserted and GM Daewoo s assessment of any or all of individual claim elements may change. This accrual is included in the reserves for non-U.S. labor-related matters.      In July 2008 Old GM reached a tentative settlement of the General Motors Securities Litigation suit and recorded an additional charge of $277 million, of which $139 million was paid in the year ended
December 31, 2008. Also in the year ended December 31, 2008, Old GM recorded $215 million as a reduction to Automotive selling, general and administrative expense associated with insurance-related indemnification proceeds for previously
recorded litigation related costs, including the cost incurred to settle the General Motors Securities Litigation suit.       GME Planned
Spending Guarantee       As part of our Opel/Vauxhall restructuring plan, agreed to with European labor representatives, we
have committed to achieve specified milestones associated with planned spending from 2011 to 2014 on certain product programs. If we fail to accomplish the requirements set out under the agreement, we will be required to pay certain amounts up to
Euro 265 million for each of those years, and/or interest on those amounts, to our employees. Certain inventory with a carrying amount of $193 million at December 31, 2010 was pledged as collateral under the agreement. Management has the
intent and believes it has the ability to meet the requirements under the agreement.       Asset Retirement Obligations    
  Conditional asset retirement obligations relate to legal obligations associated with retirement of tangible long-lived assets that result
from acquisition, construction, development, or normal operation of a long-lived asset. An analysis is performed of such obligations associated with all real property owned or leased, including facilities, warehouses, and offices. Estimates of
conditional asset retirement obligations relate, in the case of owned properties, to costs estimated to be necessary for the legally required removal or remediation of various regulated materials, primarily asbestos. Asbestos abatement was estimated
using site-specific surveys where available and a per square foot estimate where surveys were unavailable. For leased properties, such obligations relate to the estimated cost of contractually required property restoration.   
  Recording conditional asset retirement obligations results in increased fixed asset balances with a corresponding increase to
liabilities. Asset balances, net of accumulated depreciation, of $36 million and $53 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009 are recorded in Property, net, while the related liabilities are included in Other liabilities. The following table
summarizes the activity related to asset retirement obligations (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Represents the asset retirement obligations associated with assets MLC retained.     
         257

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Noncancelable Operating Leases    
  The following table summarizes our minimum commitments under noncancelable operating leases having remaining terms in excess of one year,
primarily for property (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Certain of the leases contain escalation clauses and renewal or purchase options.     
   
     Asbestos-Related Liability
      In connection with the 363 Sale, MLC retained substantially all of the asbestos-related claims outstanding.   
  Like most automobile manufacturers, Old GM had been subject to asbestos-related claims in recent years.   
  Old GM recorded the estimated liability associated with asbestos personal injury claims where the expected loss was both probable and
could reasonably be estimated. Old GM retained a firm specializing in estimating asbestos claims to assist Old GM in determining the potential liability for pending and unasserted future asbestos personal injury claims.   
  Old GM reviewed a number of factors, including the analyses provided by the firm specializing in estimating asbestos claims in order to
determine a reasonable estimate of the probable liability for pending and future asbestos-related claims projected to be asserted over the subsequent 10 years, including legal defense costs. Old GM monitored actual claims experience for
consistency with this estimate and made periodic adjustments as appropriate. Old GM recorded asbestos-related expenses of $18 million and $51 million in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 and the year ended December 31, 2008.
      Delphi Corporation         Benefit Guarantee        In 1999, Old GM spun-off Delphi Automotive
Systems Corporation, which became Delphi. Prior to the consummation of the DMDA, Delphi was our and Old GM s largest supplier of automotive systems, components and parts, and we and Old GM were Delphi s largest customer. From 2005 to 2008
Old GM s annual purchases from Delphi ranged from approximately $6.5 billion to approximately $10.2 billion. At the time of the spin-off, employees of Delphi Automotive Systems Corporation became employees of Delphi. As part of the separation
agreements, Delphi assumed the pension and other postretirement benefit obligations for the transferred U.S. hourly employees who retired after January 1, 2000 and Old GM retained pension and other postretirement obligations for U.S. hourly
employees who retired on or before January 1, 2000. Additionally at the time of the spin-off, Old GM entered into the Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements with the UAW, the IUE-CWA and the USW providing contingent benefit guarantees whereby,
under certain conditions, Old GM would make payments for certain pension and OPEB benefits to certain former   
         258

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

U.S. hourly employees that became employees of Delphi. The Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements provided, in general, that in the event that Delphi or its successor companies ceased doing
business, terminated its pension plan or ceased to provide credited service or OPEB benefits at certain levels due to financial distress, Old GM could be liable to provide the corresponding benefits at the required level. With respect to pension
benefits, the guarantee arises only to the extent the pension benefits Delphi and the PBGC provided fall short of the guaranteed amount.      In October 2005 Old GM received notice from Delphi that it was more likely than not that Old GM would become obligated to provide benefits pursuant to the Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements, in
connection with Delphi s commencement in October 2005 of Chapter 11 proceedings under the Bankruptcy Code. In June 2007 Old GM entered into a memorandum of understanding with Delphi and the UAW (Delphi UAW MOU) that included terms relating
to the consensual triggering, under certain circumstances, of the Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements as well as additional terms relating to Delphi s restructuring. Under the Delphi UAW MOU, Old GM also agreed to pay for certain healthcare
costs of Delphi retirees and their beneficiaries in order to provide a level of benefits consistent with those provided to Old GM s retirees and their beneficiaries under the Mitigation Plan, if Delphi terminated OPEB benefits. In August 2007
Old GM also entered into memoranda of understanding with Delphi and the IUE-CWA and with Delphi and the USW containing terms consistent with the comprehensive Delphi UAW MOU.        Delphi-GM Settlement Agreements        In September 2007 and as amended
at various times through September 2008, Old GM and Delphi entered into the Delphi-GM Settlement Agreements consisting of the Global Settlement Agreement (GSA), the Master Restructuring Agreement (MRA) and the Implementation Agreements with the UAW,
IUE-CWA and the USW (Implementation Agreements). The GSA was intended to resolve outstanding issues between Delphi and Old GM that arose before Delphi s emergence from its Chapter 11 proceedings. The MRA was intended to govern certain
aspects of Old GM s ongoing commercial relationship with Delphi. The Implementation Agreements addressed a limited transfer of pension assets and liabilities, and the triggering of the benefit guarantees on the basis set forth in term sheets to
the Implementation Agreements. In September 2008 the Bankruptcy Court entered an order in Delphi s Chapter 11 proceedings approving the Amended Delphi-GM Settlement Agreements which then became effective.   
  The more significant items contained in the Amended Delphi-GM Settlement Agreements included Old GM s commitment to:   

Reimburse Delphi for its costs to provide OPEB to certain of Delphi s hourly retirees from December 31, 2006 through the date that
Delphi ceases to provide such benefits and assume responsibility for OPEB going forward;          

Reimburse Delphi for the normal cost of credited service in Delphi s pension plan between January 1, 2007 and the date its pension
plans are frozen;          

First hourly pension transfer   Transfer net liabilities of $2.1 billion from the Delphi Hourly Rate Plan (Delphi HRP) to Old GM s
U.S. hourly pension plan in September 2008;          

Second hourly pension transfer   Transfer the remaining Delphi HRP net liabilities upon Delphi s substantial consummation of its plan
of reorganization (POR) subject to certain conditions being met;          

Reimburse Delphi for all retirement incentives and half of the buyout payments made pursuant to the various attrition program provisions and to
reimburse certain U.S. hourly buydown payments made to certain hourly employees of Delphi;          

Award certain future product programs to Delphi, provide Delphi with ongoing preferential sourcing for other product programs, eliminate certain
previously agreed upon price reductions, and restrict the ability to re-source certain production to alternative suppliers;          

Labor cost subsidy   Reimburse certain U.S. hourly labor costs incurred to produce systems, components and parts for GM vehicles from
October 2006 through September 2015 at certain U.S. facilities owned or to be divested by Delphi;      
         259

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

Production cash burn support   Reimburse Delphi s cash flow deficiency attributable to production at certain U.S. facilities that
continue to produce systems, components and parts for GM vehicles until the facilities are either closed or sold by Delphi;          

Facilitation support   Pay Delphi $110 million in both 2009 and 2010 in quarterly installments in connection with certain U.S. facilities
owned by Delphi until Delphi s emergence from its Chapter 11 proceedings;          

Temporarily accelerate payment terms for Delphi s North American sales to Old GM upon substantial consummation of its POR, until 2012;

Reimburse Delphi, beginning in January 2009, for actual cash payments related to workers compensation, disability, supplemental unemployment
benefits and severance obligations for all current and former UAW-represented hourly active and inactive employees; and          

Guarantee a minimum recovery of the net working capital that Delphi has invested in certain businesses held for sale.
        The GSA also resolved all claims in existence at its effective date (with certain limited exceptions) that
either Delphi or Old GM had or may have had against the other. The GSA and related agreements with Delphi s unions released us, Old GM and our related parties (as defined), from any claims of Delphi and its related parties (as defined), as well
as any employee benefit related claims of Delphi s unions and hourly employees. Additionally, the GSA provided that Old GM would receive certain administrative claims against the Delphi bankruptcy estate or preferred stock in the emerged
entity.      As a result of the September 2008 implementation of the Delphi-GM Settlement Agreements Old GM paid $1.0 billion and
$1.4 billion to Delphi in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 and the year ended December 31, 2008 in settlement of amounts accrued to date against Old GM commitments. We paid $288 million in 2009 prior to the consummation
of the DMDA in settlement of amounts accrued to date against our commitments.      Upon consummation of the DMDA, the MRA was
terminated with limited exceptions, and we and Delphi waived all claims against each other under the GSA.        IUE-CWA and
USW Settlement Agreement        As more fully discussed in Note 20, in September 2009 we entered into a settlement agreement
with MLC, the IUE-CWA and the USW that resolved the Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements with these unions. The settlement agreement provides for a measure of retiree healthcare and life insurance to be provided to certain retirees represented by
these unions. The agreement also provides certain IUE-CWA and USW retirees from Delphi a pension  top up  equal to the difference between the amount of PBGC pension payments and the amount of pension benefits that otherwise would have been
paid by the Delphi HRP according to its terms had it not been terminated. Further, the settlement agreement provided certain current employees of Delphi or Delphi divested units up to seven years credited service in Old GM s U.S. hourly defined
benefit pension plan, commencing November 30, 2008, the date that Delphi froze the Delphi HRP. The agreement was approved by the Bankruptcy Court in November 2009.        Advance Agreements        In the period January 1, 2009 to
July 9, 2009 and the year ended December 31, 2008 Old GM entered into various agreements and amendments to such agreements to advance a maximum of $950 million to Delphi, subject to Delphi s continued satisfaction of certain
conditions and milestones. Through the consummation of the DMDA, we entered into further amendments to the agreements, primarily to extend the deadline for Delphi to satisfy certain milestones, which if not met, would have prevented Delphi from
continued access to the credit facility. At October 6, 2009 $550 million had been advanced under the credit facility. Upon consummation of the DMDA, we waived our rights to the advanced amounts that became consideration to Delphi and other
parties under the DMDA. Refer to Note 5 for additional information on the consummation of the DMDA.         
         260

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
     Payment Terms Acceleration Agreement     
  In October 2008 subject to Delphi obtaining an extension or other accommodation of its DIP financing through June 30, 2009, Old GM
agreed to temporarily accelerate payment of North American payables to Delphi in the three months ended June 30, 2009. In January 2009 Old GM agreed to immediately accelerate $50 million in advances towards the temporary acceleration of North
American payables. Additionally, Old GM agreed to accelerate $150 million and $100 million of North American payables to Delphi in March and April of 2009 bringing the total amount accelerated to the total agreed upon $300 million. Upon consummation
of the DMDA, we waived our rights to the accelerated payments that became consideration to Delphi and other parties under the DMDA.        Delphi Master Disposition Agreement        In July 2009 we, Delphi and
the PBGC negotiated an agreement to be effective upon consummation of the DMDA regarding the settlement of PBGC s claims from the termination of the Delphi pension plans and the release of certain liens with the PBGC against Delphi s
foreign assets. In return, the PBGC received a payment of $70 million from us and was granted a 100% interest in Class C Membership Interests in New Delphi which provide for the PBGC to participate in predefined equity distributions. We maintain the
obligation to provide the difference between pension benefits paid by the PBGC according to regulation and those originally guaranteed by Old GM under the Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements.   
  In October 2009 we consummated the transaction contemplated by the DMDA with Delphi, New Delphi, Old GM and other sellers and other
buyers that are party to the DMDA, as more fully described in Note 5. Upon consummation of the DMDA, the MRA was terminated with limited exceptions, and we and Delphi waived all claims against each other under the GSA. Upon consummation of the DMDA
we settled our commitments to Delphi accrued to date except for the obligation to provide the difference between pension benefits paid by the PBGC according to regulation and those originally guaranteed by Old GM under the Delphi Benefit Guarantee
Agreements that we continue to maintain. In addition, the DMDA establishes an ongoing commercial relationship with New Delphi. We also agreed to continue all existing Delphi supply agreements and purchase orders for GMNA to the end of the related
product program, and New Delphi agreed to provide us with access rights designed to allow us to operate specific sites on defined triggering events to provide us with protection of supply.   
    Delphi Charges        The following table summarizes charges that have been recorded with respect to the various agreements with Delphi (dollars in millions):   
   
    These charges reflect the best estimate of obligations associated with the various Delphi agreements,
including obligations under the Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements, updated to reflect the DMDA. At July 9, 2009 these charges reflect the obligation to the PBGC upon consummation of the DMDA, consisting of the estimated fair value of the PBGC
Class C Membership Interests in New Delphi of $317 million and the payment of $70 million due from us. Further, at July 9, 2009 these charges reflect an estimated value of $966 million pertaining to claims we have against Delphi that were
waived upon consummation of the DMDA. The estimated value of the claims represents the excess after settlement of certain pre-existing commitments to Delphi of the fair value of Nexteer, the four
  
         261

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

domestic facilities and the investment in New Delphi over the cash consideration paid under the DMDA. Refer to Note 5 for additional information on the total consideration paid under the
DMDA and the allocation of such consideration to the various units of account.      The charges recorded in the year ended
December 31, 2008 primarily related to estimated losses associated with the guarantee of Delphi s hourly pension plans and the write off of any estimated recoveries from Delphi. The charges also reflected a benefit of $622 million due to a
reduction in the estimated liability associated with Delphi OPEB related costs for Delphi active employees and retirees, based on the terms of the New VEBA, who were not previously participants in Old GM s plans. The terms of the New VEBA also
reduced Old GM s OPEB obligation for Delphi employees who returned to Old GM and became participants in the UAW hourly medical plan primarily in 2006. Such benefit is included in the actuarial gain recorded in our UAW hourly medical plan. Refer
to Note 22 for additional information on the Delphi benefit plans.   
         262

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
      Note 23. Income Taxes    
   Consolidated       The
following table summarizes Income (loss) before income taxes and equity income (dollars in millions):       
     Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes       The following table summarizes the provision (benefit) for income taxes (dollars in millions):       
    Annual tax provisions include amounts considered sufficient to pay assessments that may result from
examination of prior year tax returns.      The following table summarizes the cash paid (received) for income taxes (dollars in
millions):       
    Provisions are made
for estimated U.S. and non-U.S. income taxes, less available tax credits and deductions, which may be incurred on the remittance of our and Old GM s share of basis differences in investments in foreign subsidiaries and corporate joint ventures
not deemed to be permanently reinvested. Taxes have not been provided on basis differences in investments in foreign subsidiaries and corporate joint ventures which are deemed permanently reinvested of $6.9 billion and $5.5 billion at
December 31, 2010 and 2009. Quantification of the deferred tax liability, if any, associated with permanently reinvested earnings is not practicable.   
         263

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes a reconciliation of the provision (benefit) for income
taxes compared with the amounts at the U.S. federal statutory rate (dollars in millions):       
      Deferred Income Tax Assets and Liabilities     
  Deferred income tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 2010 and 2009 reflect the effect of temporary differences between amounts
of assets, liabilities and equity for financial reporting purposes and the bases of such assets, liabilities and equity as measured by tax laws, as well as tax loss and tax credit carryforwards.   
  The following table summarizes the components of temporary differences and carryforwards that give rise to deferred tax assets
(liabilities) (dollars in millions):       
 
         264

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes deferred tax assets (liabilities) (dollars in millions):
      
    The following table summarizes the amount and expiration dates of our operating loss and tax credit
carryforwards at December 31, 2010 (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  The general business credits are principally composed of research and experimentation credits.         Valuation Allowances       The valuation allowances recognized relate to
certain net deferred tax assets in U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions. The following table summarizes the change in the valuation allowance (dollars in millions):       
 
         265

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   In July 2009 Old GM recorded adjustments resulting in a net decrease in valuation
allowances of $20.7 billion as a result of the 363 Sale and fresh-start reporting. The net decrease primarily resulted from U.S. federal and state tax attribute reduction of $12.2 billion related to debt cancellation income, a net difference of $5.5
billion between fresh-start reporting and historical U.S. GAAP bases of assets and liabilities at entities with valuation allowances, net valuation allowances of $1.7 billion associated with assets and liabilities retained by Old GM, a foreign tax
attribute reduction of $0.9 billion and release of valuation allowances of $0.7 billion. After the deconsolidation of our Saab unit in February 2009, corresponding deferred taxes and valuation allowances in Sweden were no longer recorded in Old GM
financial statements.      Old GM established or released the following significant valuation allowances for jurisdictions not on
a full valuation allowance throughout the applicable period (dollars in millions):       
    Over the past several
years, we and Old GM have accumulated pre-tax losses in the U.S. and various non-U.S. jurisdictions. These historical pre-tax losses were driven by several factors including but not limited to instability of the global economic environment,
automotive price competition, relatively high cost structure, unfavorable commodity prices, unfavorable regulatory and tax environments and a challenging foreign currency exchange environment. By December 31, 2008, after weighing these
objective and verifiable negative evidence factors with all other available positive and negative evidence, Old GM determined it was more likely than not it would not realize its net deferred tax assets, and established valuation allowances for
major jurisdictions including the U.S., Canada, Brazil, Australia, South Korea, Germany, Spain and the United Kingdom. Additional concerns arose related to the U.S. parent company s liquidity which led us to establish valuation allowances for
Texas and various non-U.S. jurisdictions, even though many of these jurisdictions had historical profits and no other significant negative evidence factors.      In 2009 the U.S. parent company liquidity concerns were resolved in connection with the Chapter 11 Proceedings and the 363 Sale, and many non-U.S. jurisdictions, including Brazil, were generating and
projecting U.S. GAAP and local taxable income. To the extent there were no other significant negative evidence factors, Old GM determined it was more likely than not it would realize its net deferred tax assets and reversed valuation allowances in
Brazil and various non-U.S. jurisdictions.      Although we are a new company, and our ability to achieve future profitability was
enhanced by the cost and liability reductions that occurred as a result of the Chapter 11 Proceedings and 363 Sale, Old GM s historic operating results remain relevant as they are reflective of the industry and the effect of economic
conditions. The fundamental businesses and inherent risks in which we globally operate did not change from those in which Old GM operated. As such, subsequent to the Chapter 11 Proceedings and the 363 Sale, due to objective and verifiable negative
evidence including cumulative and current losses, we determined it was still more likely than not the net deferred tax assets would not be realized in major jurisdictions including the U.S., Canada, Australia, South Korea, Germany, Spain and the
United Kingdom.      At December 31, 2010 objective and verifiable negative evidence continues to outweigh positive evidence
in our key valuation allowance jurisdictions. If, in the future, we generate taxable income in jurisdictions where we have recorded full valuation allowances, on a sustained basis, our conclusion regarding the need for full valuation allowances in
these tax jurisdictions could   
         266

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

change, resulting in the reversal of some or all of the valuation allowances. If our operations generate taxable income prior to reaching profitability on a sustained basis, we would reverse a
portion of the valuation allowance related to the corresponding realized tax benefit for that period, without changing our conclusions on the need for a full valuation allowance against the remaining net deferred tax assets.   
   Uncertain Tax Positions    
  The following table summarizes gross unrecognized tax benefits before valuation allowances and the amount that would favorably affect the
effective tax rate in future periods after valuation allowances (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  The remaining uncertain tax positions are classified as current and non-current liabilities.     
  The following table summarizes activity of the total amounts of unrecognized tax benefits (dollars in millions):   
   
    The following tables summarize information regarding income tax related interest and penalties (dollars in
millions):       
 
         267

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

Other Matters    
  Most of the tax attributes generated by Old GM and its domestic and foreign subsidiaries (net operating loss carryforwards and various
income tax credits) survived the Chapter 11 Proceedings, and we are using or expect to use the tax attributes to reduce future tax liabilities. The ability to utilize certain of the U.S. tax attributes in future tax periods could be limited by
Section 382(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. On November 1, 2010, we amended our certificate of incorporation to minimize the likelihood of an ownership change occurring for Section 382 purposes. In Germany, we have net operating loss
carryforwards for corporate income tax and trade tax purposes through November 30, 2009 that, as a result of reorganizations that took place in 2008 and 2009, were not recorded as deferred tax assets. Although we received a ruling from the
German tax authorities confirming the availability of these losses for carry over on January 26, 2011, a European Union Commission review concluded the German law on which the ruling was based is void and therefore reaffirmed these loss
carryforwards are not available. We are evaluating options that would allow these loss carryforwards to reduce future taxable income. In Australia, we have net operating loss carryforwards which are subject to meeting a  Same Business
Test  requirement that we assess on a quarterly basis.      In the U.S., we have continuing responsibility for Old GM s
open tax years. Old GM s federal income tax returns for 2004 through 2006 were audited by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), and the review was concluded in February 2010. The IRS is currently auditing Old GM s federal 2007 and 2008 tax
years. The IRS is also reviewing the January 1 through July 9, 2009 Old GM tax year as part of the IRS Compliance Assurance Process (CAP), the objective of which is to reach early issue resolution and increase audit efficiency. Our
July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 and 2010 tax years are also under IRS CAP review. In addition to the U.S., income tax returns are filed in multiple jurisdictions and are subject to examination by taxing authorities throughout the
world. We have open tax years from 2001 to 2009 with various significant tax jurisdictions. These open years contain matters that could be subject to differing interpretations of applicable tax laws and regulations as they relate to the amount,
character, timing or inclusion of revenue and expenses or the sustainability of income tax credits for a given audit cycle. Given the global nature of our operations, there is a risk that transfer pricing disputes may arise.   
  In May 2009 the U.S. and Canadian governments resolved a transfer pricing matter for Old GM which covered the tax years 2001 through
2007. In the three months ended June 30, 2009 this resolution resulted in a tax benefit of $692 million and interest of $229 million. Final administrative processing of the Canadian case closing occurred in late 2009, and final administrative
processing of the U.S. case closing occurred in February 2010.      In June 2010 a Mexican income tax audit covering the 2002 and
2003 years was concluded and an assessment of 2.0 billion pesos (equivalent to $165 million) including tax, interest and penalties was issued. We do not agree with the assessment and intend to appeal. We believe we have adequate reserves established
and collection of the assessment will be suspended during the appeal period and any subsequent proceedings through U.S. and Mexican competent authorities.      In November 2010 an agreement was reached with the Canadian government to resolve various income tax matters in the years 2003 through 2009. In the three months ended December 31, 2010, this
resolution resulted in a tax benefit of $140 million including interest.      Based on an unfavorable Brazilian Supreme court
decision rendered to a separate Brazilian taxpayer on a similar income tax matter, it is likely we will settle a contested income tax matter for $242 million in the next twelve months. This amount was fully reserved in a prior period.   
         268

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   At December 31, 2010, aside from the Brazilian matter, it is not possible to
reasonably estimate the expected change to the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months.        
 Note 24. Fair Value Measurements        Automotive         Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis        The following tables
summarize the financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Cash and time deposits recorded in Cash and cash equivalents and Restricted cash and marketable securities have been excluded.     
         269

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  Cash and time deposits recorded in Cash and cash equivalents and Restricted cash and marketable securities have been excluded.     
    Transfers In and/or Out of Level 3        At December 31, 2010 our non-performance risk remains unobservable through a liquid credit default swap market. In the three months ended December 31, 2010 we determined that our non-performance
risk no longer represents a significant input in the determination of the fair value of our derivatives. The effect of our non-performance risk in the valuation has been reduced due to the reduction in the remaining duration and magnitude of these
net derivative liability positions. In October 2010 we transferred foreign currency derivatives with a fair market value of $183 million out of Level 3 to Level 2.      In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 Old GM s mortgage- and asset-backed securities were transferred out of Level 3 to Level 2 as the significant inputs used to measure fair
value and quoted prices for similar instruments were determined to be observable in an active market.   
         270

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   For periods presented from June 1, 2009 through September 30, 2010
nonperformance risk for us and Old GM was not observable through a liquid credit default swap market as a result of the Chapter 11 Proceedings and lack of traded instruments for us after the 363 Sale. As a result, foreign currency derivatives
with a fair market value of $1.6 billion were transferred into Level 3 from Level 2 in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009.      In the three months ended March 31, 2009 Old GM determined the credit profile of certain foreign subsidiaries was equivalent to Old GM s nonperformance risk which was observable through the
credit default swap market and bond market based on prices for recent trades. Foreign currency derivatives with a fair value of $2.1 billion were transferred from Level 3 into Level 2.   
  The following tables summarize the activity for financial instruments classified in Level 3 (dollars in millions):   

Successor   

Level 3 Financial Assets and (Liabilities)   

Mortgage- backed     Securities  

Commodity     Derivatives,     Net   

Foreign     Currency     Derivatives   

Options   

Other     Securities   

Total Net     Assets     (Liabilities)   

Balance at January 1, 2010   
      
  $  

$  

$  
  (672  
  )   
     
  $  

$  

$  
  (672  
  )    
 
    Total realized/unrealized gains (losses)   

Included in earnings   

103  

(3  
  )   

100  

Included in other comprehensive income (loss)   

(10  
  )   

(10  
  )    
 
    Purchases, issuances and settlements   

394  

(21  
  )   

10  

383  

Transfer in and/or out of Level 3   

185  

185  

Balance at December 31, 2010   
      
  $  

$  

$  

$  
  (24  
  )   
     
  $  
  10  

$  
  (14  
  )    

Amount of total gains and (losses) in the period included in earnings attributable to the change in unrealized gains or (losses)
relating to assets still held at the reporting date   
      
  $  

$  

$  

$  
  (3  
  )   
     
  $  

$  
  (3  
  )    

Successor   

Level 3 Financial Assets and (Liabilities)   

Mortgage- backed     Securities  

Commodity     Derivatives,     Net   

Foreign     Currency     Derivatives   

Options   

Other     Securities   

Total Net     Assets     (Liabilities)   

Balance at July 10, 2009   
      
  $  

$  

$  
  (1,430  
  )   
     
  $  

$  

$  
  (1,430  
  )    
 
    Total realized/unrealized gains (losses)   

Included in earnings   

238  

238  

Included in other comprehensive income (loss)   

(103  
  )   

(103  
  )    
 
    Purchases, issuances and settlements   

623  

623  

Transfer in and/or out of Level 3   

Balance at December 31, 2009   
      
  $  

$  

$  
  (672  
  )   
     
  $  

$  

$  
  (672  
  )    

Amount of total gains and (losses) in the period included in earnings attributable to the change in unrealized gains or (losses)
relating to assets still held at the reporting date   
      
  $  

$  

$  
  214  

$  

$  

$  
  214  

271

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

Short-Term and Long-Term Debt     
  We determined the fair value of debt based on a discounted cash flow model which used benchmark yield curves plus a spread that
represented the yields on traded bonds of companies with comparable credit ratings and risk profiles.      The following table
summarizes the carrying amount and estimated fair values of short-term and long-term debt (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Accounts and notes receivable, net and Accounts payable (principally trade) are not included because the carrying amount approximates fair value due to their short-term
nature.          Ally Financial Common and Preferred Stock     
  At December 31, 2010 we estimated the fair value of Ally Financial common stock using a market approach that applies the average
price to tangible book value multiples of comparable companies to the consolidated Ally Financial tangible book value. This approach provides our best estimate of the fair value of our investment in Ally Financial common stock at December 31,
2010 due to Ally Financial s transition to a bank holding company and less readily available information with which to value Ally Financial s business operations individually. The significant inputs used in our fair value analysis were
Ally Financial s December 31, 2010 financial statements, as well as the financial statements and price to tangible book value multiples of comparable companies in the banking and finance industry.   
  At December 31, 2009 we estimated the fair value of our investment in Ally Financial common stock using a market approach based on
the average price to tangible book value multiples of comparable companies to each of Ally Financial s Auto Finance, Commercial Finance, Mortgage, and Insurance operations to determine the fair value of the individual operations. These values
were aggregated to estimate the fair value of Ally Financial s common stock. The significant inputs used to determine the appropriate multiple for Ally Financial and used in our analysis were as follows:   

Ally Financial s December 31, 2009 financial statements, as well as the financial statements and price to tangible book value
multiples of comparable companies in the Auto Finance, Commercial Finance and Insurance industries;          

Historical segment equity information separately provided by Ally Financial;      
         272

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

Expected performance of Ally Financial, as well as our view on its ability to access capital markets; and      

The value of Ally Financial s mortgage operations, taking into consideration the continuing challenges in the housing markets and mortgage
industry, and its need for additional liquidity to maintain business operations.         At December 31, 2010
and 2009 we calculated the fair value of our investment in Ally Financial s preferred stock using a discounted cash flow approach. The present value of the cash flows was determined using assumptions regarding the expected receipt of dividends
on Ally Financial s preferred stock and the expected call date.      The following table summarizes the carrying amount and
estimated fair value of Ally Financial common and preferred stock (dollars in millions):       
     
     Automotive Financing         Fair Value Measurements on a Recurring Basis        The following table
summarizes the financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis (dollars in millions):       
 
         273

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  Cash deposits and cash held in Guaranteed Investment Contracts have been excluded.     

(b)  
  The fair value of interest rate cap and swap derivatives are based upon quoted market prices when available. If quoted prices are not available, the fair value is
estimated by discounting future net cash flows expected to be settled using a current risk adjusted rate.     
    Transfers In and/or Out of Level 3        The following table summarizes the activity for financial instruments classified in Level 3 (dollars in millions):       

Successor   

Assets   

(Liabilities)   

Interest Rate     Swap     Derivatives   

Interest Rate     Swap     Derivatives   

Balance at October 1, 2010   
      
  $  
  27  

$  
  (61  
  )    
 
    Transfers in and/or out of Level 3   

Total realized/unrealized gains (losses)   

Included in earnings   

1  

(1  
  )    
 
    Included in other comprehensive income (loss)   

Settlements   

(5  
  )   

15  

Balance at December 31, 2010   
      
  $  
  23  

$  
  (47  
  )    

The following table summarizes estimated fair values, carrying amounts and various methods and assumptions
used in valuing GM Financial s financial instruments (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  The fair value of the finance receivables is estimated based upon forecasted cash flows discounted using a pre-tax weighted-average cost of capital. The forecast
includes among other things items such as prepayment, defaults, recoveries and fee income assumptions.         

(b)  
  Credit facilities have variable rates of interest and maturities of three years or less. The carrying amount is considered to be a reasonable estimate of fair value.

(c)  
  The fair values of the securitization notes payable and senior notes and convertible senior notes are based on quoted market prices, when available. If quoted market
prices are not available, the fair value is estimated by discounting future net cash flows expected to be settled using a current risk-adjusted rate.     
         274

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
      Note 25. Restructuring and Other Initiatives    
   Automotive       We have and
Old GM had previously executed various restructuring and other initiatives, and we plan to execute additional initiatives in the future, if necessary, in order to preserve adequate liquidity, to align manufacturing capacity and other costs with
prevailing global automotive production and to improve the utilization of remaining facilities. Related charges are recorded in Automotive cost of sales and Automotive selling, general and administrative expense.   
  Refer to Note 26 for asset impairment charges related to our restructuring initiatives and Note 20 for pension and other postretirement
benefit charges resulting from our hourly and salaried employee separation initiatives, including special attrition programs.   
  GM Financial did not execute any new restructuring initiatives in the three months ended December 31, 2010. Charges and payments for
restructuring activities in the three months ended December 31, 2010 related to previously announced programs are not significant.      The following table summarizes Automotive restructuring reserves (excluding restructuring reserves related to dealer wind-down agreements) and charges by segment, including postemployment benefit reserves
and charges (dollars in millions):       
 
         275

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  The remaining cash payments related to these restructuring reserves primarily relate to postemployment benefits to be paid.     
   GM       GMNA recorded
charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to estimates that decreased the restructuring reserves by $275 million in the year ended December 31, 2010. The decreases were primarily related to increased production capacity utilization,
which resulted in the recall of idled employees to fill added shifts at multiple U.S. production sites and revisions to productivity initiatives, partially offset by Canadian restructuring activities.   
  GME recorded charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to estimates of $840 million in the year ended December 31, 2010
for separation programs primarily related to the following initiatives:       

Separation charges of $527 million related to the closure of the Antwerp, Belgium facility which affects 2,600 employees.      

Separation charges of $72 million and revisions to estimates to decrease the reserve by $9 million related to separation/layoff plans and an
early retirement plan in Spain which affects 1,200 employees.          

Separation charges of $31 million related to a voluntary separation program in the United Kingdom.      

Separation charges of $95 million and interest accretion and other of $104 million related to a voluntary separation program and previously
announced programs in Germany.         We have committed to a restructuring plan for GME, and as of December 31,
2010 we expect to expend up to $1.4 billion. Of this amount $0.8 billion was recorded in 2010 as charges for the separation programs described above. We expect to incur an additional $0.6 billion primarily in 2011 and 2012 to complete
these programs. Because these programs involve voluntary separations, no liabilities are recorded until offers to employees are accepted.  
         276

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   GMNA recorded charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to estimates of $89
million in the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 for separation programs primarily related to the following initiatives:       

The restructuring reserves were increased by $213 million due to an increase in the SUB and TSP accrual of $183 million related to capacity
actions, productivity initiatives, acquisition of Nexteer and four domestic facilities and Canadian restructuring activities of $30 million.          

The salaried and hourly workforce severance accruals were reduced by $146 million as a result of elections subsequently made by terminating
employees. Such amounts were reclassified as special termination benefits and were funded from the U.S. defined benefit pension plans and other applicable retirement benefit plans.      
  GME recorded charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to estimates of $72 million in the period July 10, 2009 through
December 31, 2009 primarily related to separation charges for early retirement programs and additional liability adjustments, primarily in Germany.      GMIO recorded charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to estimates of $77 million in the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009, primarily related to separation charges of
$72 million related to restructuring programs in Australia for salaried and hourly employees.        Dealer Wind-downs
       We market vehicles worldwide through a network of independent retail dealers and distributors. As part of achieving
and sustaining long-term viability and the viability of our dealer network, we determined that a reduction in the number of GMNA dealerships was necessary. At December 31, 2010 there were 5,200 dealers in GMNA compared to 6,500 at
December 31, 2009. Certain dealers in the U.S. that had signed wind-down agreements with us elected to file for reinstatement through a binding arbitration process. At December 31, 2010 the arbitration process had been resolved. As a
result of the arbitration process we offered 332 dealers reinstatement in their entirety and 460 existing dealers reinstatement of certain brands.      The following table summarizes GMNA s restructuring reserves related to dealer wind-down agreements in the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 and in the year ended
December 31, 2010 (dollars in millions):       
    Restructuring reserves related to dealer wind-down agreements in the period July 10, 2009 through
December 31, 2009 increased primarily due to additional accruals recorded for wind-down payments to Saturn dealerships in accordance with the deferred termination agreements that Saturn dealers signed.   
         277

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Old GM       GMNA recorded charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to estimates of $1.5 billion in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 for separation programs related to the
following initiatives:       

Postemployment benefit charges in the U.S. of $825 million related to 13,000 hourly employees who participated in the 2009 Special Attrition
Programs.          

SUB and TSP related charges in the U.S. of $707 million, recorded as an additional liability determined by an actuarial analysis at the
implementation of the SUB and TSP and related suspension of the JOBS Program.          

Revisions to estimates of $401 million to decrease the reserve, primarily related to $335 million for the suspension of the JOBS Program and
$141 million for estimated future wages and benefits due to employees who participated in the 2009 Special Attrition Programs; offset by a net increase of $86 million related to Canadian salaried workforce reductions and other restructuring
initiatives in Canada.          

Separation charges of $250 million for a U.S. salaried severance program to allow 6,000 terminated employees to receive ongoing wages and
benefits for up to 12 months.          

Postemployment benefit charges in Canada of $38 million related to 380 hourly employees who participated in a special attrition program at the
Oshawa Facility.         GME recorded charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to estimates of $31
million in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 primarily related to separation charges for early retirement programs and additional liability adjustments, primarily in Germany.   
  GMIO recorded charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to estimates of $27 million in the period January 1, 2009 through
July 9, 2009 primarily related to separation charges in Australia of $19 million related to a facility idling. The program affects employees who left through December 2009.   
  GMSA recorded charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to estimates of $47 million in the period January 1, 2009 through
July 9, 2009 related to voluntary and involuntary separation programs in South America affecting 3,300 salaried and hourly employees.      GMNA recorded charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to estimates of $2.5 billion in the year ended December 31, 2008 for separation programs related to the following initiatives:

Postemployment benefit costs in the U.S. and Canada of $2.1 billion, which was comprised of $1.7 billion related to previously announced
capacity actions and $407 million for special attrition programs.          

Revisions to estimates that increased the reserve of $320 million.      

Separation charges of $40 million for a U.S. salaried severance program, which allowed terminated employees to receive ongoing wages and
benefits for up to 12 months.         GME recorded charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to
estimates of $286 million in the year ended December 31, 2008 for separation programs related to the following initiatives:       

Separation charges in Germany of $107 million related to early retirement programs, along with additional minor separations under other current
programs.          

Separation charges in Belgium of $92 million related to current and previously announced programs.      

Separation charges of $43 million related to separation programs and the cost of previously announced initiatives, which include voluntary
separations, in Sweden, the United Kingdom, Spain and France.      
         278

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   GMIO recorded charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to estimates of $96
million in the year ended December 31, 2008 primarily related to separation charges of $76 million related to a facility idling in Australia.      GMSA recorded charges, interest accretion and other, and revisions to estimates of $31 million in the year ended December 31, 2008 related to separation charges in South America.   
    Dealer Wind-downs        The following table summarizes GMNA s restructuring reserves related to dealer wind-down agreements in the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 (dollars in millions):   

279

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
      Note 26. Impairments    
   Automotive       The
following table summarizes impairment charges (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  The year ended December 31, 2008 includes an increase in intersegment residual support and risk sharing reserves of $220 million recorded as a reduction of revenue
in GMNA.         

(b)  
  Refer to Note 8 and Note 24 for additional information on marketable securities and financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis.
    
         280

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   Fair value measurements, excluding vehicles leased to rental car companies and
automotive retail leases, utilized projected cash flows discounted at a rate commensurate with the perceived business risks related to the assets involved. Fair value measurements of vehicles leased to rental car companies utilized projected cash
flows from vehicle sales at auction. Fair value measurements of automotive retail leases utilized discounted projected cash flows from lease payments and anticipated future auction proceeds.   
  The following tables summarize assets measured at fair value (all of which utilized Level 3 inputs) on a nonrecurring basis subsequent to
initial recognition (dollars in millions):       GM        

(a)  
  Amounts represent the fair value measure (or range of measures) during the period.     

(a)  
  Amounts represent the fair value measure (or range of measures) during the period.     

(b)  
  In the period July 10, 2009 through September 30, 2009 we recorded impairment charges of $12 million to write down vehicles leased to rental car companies to
their fair value of $543 million. In the three months ended December 31, 2009 we recorded an impairment charge of $6 million to write down vehicles leased to rental car companies to their fair value of $567 million.     
  At December 31, 2009 we determined that indicators were present that suggested our investments in Ally Financial common and
preferred stock could be impaired. Such indicators included the continuing deterioration in Ally Financial s mortgage operations, as evidenced by the strategic actions Ally Financial took in December 2009 to position itself to sell certain
mortgage assets. These actions resulted in Ally Financial recording an increase in its provision for loan losses of $2.4 billion in the three months ended December 31, 2009. These indicators also included Ally Financial s receipt of $3.8
billion of additional financial support from the UST on December 30, 2009.   
         281

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   As a result of these impairment indicators, we evaluated the fair value of our
investments in Ally Financial common and preferred stock and recorded an impairment charge of $270 million related to our Ally Financial common stock to record the investment at its estimated fair value of $970 million. We determined the fair value
of these investments using valuation methodologies that were consistent with those we used in our application of fresh-start reporting. In applying these valuation methodologies at December 31, 2009, however, we updated the analyses to reflect
changes in market comparables and other relevant assumptions.       Old GM    

(a)  
  Amounts represent the fair value measure (or range of measures) during the period.     

(b)  
  In the three months ended March 31, 2009 Old GM recorded impairment charges of $285 million to write down product-specific tooling assets to their fair value of
$85 million. In the three months ended June 30, 2009 Old GM recorded impairment charges of $237 million to write down product-specific tooling assets to their fair value of $0.     

(c)  
  In the three months ended March 31, 2009 Old GM recorded impairment charges of $29 million to write down vehicles leased to rental car companies to their fair
value $2.1 billion. In the three months ended June 30, 2009 Old GM recorded impairment charges of $17 million to write down vehicles leased to rental car companies to their fair value of $543 million. In the period July 1, 2009 through
July 9, 2009 Old GM recorded impairment charges of $1 million to write down vehicles leased to rental car companies to their fair value of $539 million.         Contract Cancellations       The following table summarizes net contract
cancellation charges recorded in Automotive cost of sales primarily related to the cancellation of product programs (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  The year ended December 31, 2010 includes favorable changes in estimate on contract cancellations of $30 million.     
         282

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
      Note 27. Other Automotive Expenses, net    
  The following table summarizes the components of Other automotive expenses, net (dollars in millions):   
   
    Interest expense and depreciation and amortization expense recorded in Other automotive expenses, net
relates to a portfolio of automotive retail leases.         Note 28. Interest Income and Other Non-Operating, net
       Automotive       The following table summarizes the components of Interest income and other non-operating income, net (dollars in millions):   

(a)  
  Amounts for the year ended December 31, 2010 include a gain on the reversal of an accrual for contingently issuable Adjustment Shares of $162 million, a gain on
the sale of Saab of $123 million, a gain on the acquisition of GMS of $66 million and a gain on the sale of Nexteer of $60 million. Amounts for the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 include impairment charges related to Ally
Financial common stock of $270 million. Amounts for the year ended December 31, 2008 include impairment charges related to Ally Financial Preferred Membership Interests of $1.0 billion.     
     Note 29. Stockholders  Equity (Deficit) and Noncontrolling Interests    
   Consolidated    
    Preferred Stock        We have 2.0 billion shares of preferred stock authorized, with a par value of $0.01 per share.   
         283

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
     Series A Preferred Stock     
  At December 31, 2010 we had 276 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. The Series A Preferred Stock
ranks senior with respect to liquidation preference and dividend rights to our common stock and Series B Preferred Stock and any other class or series of stock that we may issue. In the event of any voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution,
or winding up of our affairs, a holder of Series A Preferred Stock will be entitled to be paid, before any distribution or payment may be made to any holders of common stock or Series B Preferred Stock, the liquidation amount of $25.00 per share and
the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends, if any, whether or not declared, prior to such distribution or payment date. Holders of the Series A Preferred Stock are entitled to receive dividends at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors
at a rate of 9.0% per annum. Unless all accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock are paid in full, no dividends or distributions may be paid on common stock or Series B Preferred Stock and no shares of common stock or Series
B Preferred Stock may be purchased or redeemed by us (subject to certain exceptions that are specified in the certificate of designations for the Series A Preferred Stock). Dividends, if declared, will be payable on March 15, June 15,
September 15 and December 15 of each year. In the year ended December 31, 2010 we paid dividends on our Series A Preferred Stock of $810 million or $2.25 per share. In the year ended December 31, 2009 we paid dividends on our
Series A Preferred Stock of $349 million or $0.97 per share. We may not redeem the Series A Preferred Stock prior to December 31, 2014. On or after December 31, 2014, the Series A Preferred Stock may be redeemed, in whole or in part, for
cash at a price per share equal to the $25.00 per share liquidation amount, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends.      The Series
A Preferred Stock was originally classified as temporary equity because the holders of Series A Preferred Stock, as a class, owned greater than 50% of our common stock and therefore had the ability to exert control, through its power to vote for the
election of our directors, over various matters, including compelling us to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock when it becomes callable by us on or after December 31, 2014. In December 2010 we purchased 84 million shares of Series A
Preferred Stock, held by the UST, at a price equal to 102% of the aggregate liquidation amount, for $2.1 billion. The purchase of the UST s Series A Preferred Stock resulted in a charge of $0.7 billion recorded in Cumulative dividends on and
charge related to purchase of preferred stock. Upon the purchase of the Series A Preferred Stock held by the UST, the Series A Preferred Stock held by Canada Holdings and the New VEBA was reclassified to permanent equity at its carrying amount of
$5.5 billion because the remaining holders of our Series A Preferred Stock, Canada Holdings and the New VEBA, do not own a majority of our common stock and therefore do not have the ability to exert control, through the power to vote for the
election of our directors, over various matters, including compelling us to redeem the Series A Preferred Stock when it becomes callable by us on or after December 31, 2014. Upon a redemption or purchase of any or all Series A Preferred Stock,
the difference, if any, between the recorded amount of the Series A Preferred Stock being redeemed or purchased and the consideration paid would be recorded as a charge to Net income attributable to common stockholders. If all of the Series A
preferred Stock were to be redeemed or purchased at its par value, the amount of the charge would be $1.4 billion.   
    Series B Preferred Stock        At December 31, 2010 we had 100 million shares of Series B Preferred Stock issued and outstanding. The Series B Preferred Stock, with respect to dividend rights and rights upon our liquidation,
winding-up or dissolution, ranks: (1) senior to our common stock and to each other class of capital stock or series of preferred stock the terms of which do not expressly provide that such class or series ranks senior to, or on a parity with,
the Series B Preferred Stock; (2) on a parity with any class of capital stock or series of preferred stock the terms of which expressly provide that such class or series will rank on a parity with the Series B Preferred Stock; (3) junior
to our Series A Preferred Stock and to each class of capital stock or series of preferred stock the terms of which expressly provide that such class or series will rank senior to the Series B Preferred Stock; and (4) junior to all of our
existing and future debt obligations. Holders of our Series B Preferred Stock are entitled to dividends that accumulate at a rate of 4.75% per annum. Dividends, if declared based on the sole discretion of our Board of Directors, will be payable
on March 1, June 1, September 1 and December 1. The Series B Preferred Stock is not redeemable and has a liquidation preference in the amount of $50.00 per share. The holders of the Series B Preferred Stock do not have
voting rights, except with respect to certain fundamental changes in the terms of the Series B Preferred Stock, in the case of certain dividend arrearages and as required under Delaware law. Each share of the Series B Preferred Stock, unless
previously converted, will automatically convert on December 1, 2013 (mandatory conversion date) into a number of shares of   
         284

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

our common stock. The number of shares of our common stock issuable upon conversion of each share of Series B Preferred Stock on the mandatory conversion date, is determined based on the
applicable market value of our common stock subject to anti-dilution adjustments and accumulated and unpaid dividends. The applicable market value of our common stock is the average of the closing prices of our common stock over the 40 consecutive
trading day period ending on the third trading day immediately preceding the mandatory conversion date. Holders of the Series B Preferred Stock have the right to convert their shares at any time prior to the mandatory conversion date at a conversion
ratio of 1.2626 shares of our common stock for each share of the Series B Preferred Stock that is optionally converted, subject to anti-dilution, make-whole and other adjustments.   
  If the applicable market value of our common stock upon mandatory conversion falls within a price range of $33.00 to $39.60 per common
share, the holder receives a variable number of shares of our common stock with a value equal to the security s liquidation value of $50.00 per share (plus accumulated dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock). If the applicable market value
of our common stock upon mandatory conversion is above or below the price range of $33.00 to $39.60 per common share, the Series B Preferred Stock converts into a fixed number of shares of our common stock based on a fixed conversion ratio. The
fixed conversion ratio will be 1.2626 shares of common stock for each share of Series B Preferred Stock when the applicable market value of our common stock is greater than $39.60. The fixed conversion ratio will be 1.5152 shares of common stock for
each share of Series B Preferred Stock when the applicable market value of our common stock is less than $33.00. The fixed conversion ratios will be adjusted for events that would otherwise dilute a Series B Preferred Stock holder s interest.
These anti-dilution provisions provide a holder of the Series B Preferred Stock a right to participate in our undistributed earnings because a dividend, if declared, would result in a transfer of value to the holder through an adjustment to the
fixed conversion ratios. Based on the nature of the Series B Preferred Stock and the nature of these anti-dilution provisions, we have concluded that the Series B Preferred Stock is a participating security and, as such, the application of the
two-class method for computing earnings per share is required. Under the two-class method for computing earnings per share, undistributed earnings will be allocated to the Series B Preferred Stock in each period in which the applicable market value
of our common stock is above or below the price range of $33.00 to $39.60 per common share. The amount of the undistributed earnings to be allocated to the Series B Preferred Stock is based on the terms of the anti-dilution provisions and reflects
the incremental value above the $50.00 per share liquidation value that the holder would receive if the market value of our common stock falls outside the price range of $33.00 to $39.60. When the applicable market value of our common stock falls
within the price range of $33.00 to $39.60 per common share, no undistributed earnings will be allocated to the Series B Preferred Stock for earnings per share purposes because a holder of Series B Preferred Stock is entitled only to the
security s liquidation value of $50.00 per share (plus accumulated dividends on the Series B Preferred Stock) upon mandatory conversion and therefore does not participate in earnings. For purposes of computing diluted earnings per share, the
if-converted method will be used to the extent that the result is more dilutive than the application of the two-class method.   
    Common Stock        We have 5.0 billion shares of common stock authorized, with a par value of $0.01 per share. At December 31, 2010 and 2009 we had 1.5 billion shares issued and outstanding. Holders of our common stock
are entitled to dividends at the sole discretion of our Board of Directors. However, the terms of the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock prohibit, subject to exceptions, the payment of dividends on our common stock, unless all
accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock are paid in full. Holders of common stock are entitled to one vote per share on all matters submitted to our stockholders for a vote. The liquidation rights of
holders of our common stock are secondary to the payment or provision for payment of all our debts and liabilities and to holders of our Series A Preferred Stock and Series B Preferred Stock, if any such shares are then outstanding.   
    Warrants        In connection with the 363 Sale, we issued two warrants, each to acquire 136 million shares of common stock, to MLC and one warrant to acquire 46 million shares of common stock to the New VEBA.
The first of the MLC warrants is exercisable at any time prior to July 10, 2016 at an exercise price of $10.00 per share, and the second of the MLC warrants is exercisable at any time prior to July 10, 2019 at an exercise price of $18.33
per share. The New VEBA warrant is exercisable at any time prior to December 31, 2015   
         285

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

at an exercise price of $42.31 per share. The number of shares of common stock underlying each of the warrants and the per share exercise price thereof are subject to adjustment as a result of
certain events, including stock splits, reverse stock splits and stock dividends.        Noncontrolling Interests
       In October 2009 we completed our participation in an equity rights offering in GM Daewoo, a majority-owned and
consolidated subsidiary, for Korean Won 491 billion (equivalent to $417 million when entered into). As a result of the participation in the equity rights offering, our ownership interest in GM Daewoo increased from 50.9% to 70.1%. Funds from our UST
escrow account were utilized for this rights offering.      In December 2009 we acquired the remaining noncontrolling interest of
CAMI from Suzuki Motor Corporation for $100 million increasing our ownership interest from 50% to 100%. This transaction resulted in no charge to Capital surplus.      The table below summarizes the changes in equity resulting from Net loss attributable to common stockholders and transfers from (to) noncontrolling interests (dollars in millions):   

Successor   

July 10,
2009     Through     December 31, 2009   

Net loss attributable to common stockholders   
      
  $  
  (4,428  
  )    
 
    Increase in capital surplus resulting from GM Daewoo equity rights offering   

108  

Changes from net loss attributable to common stockholders and transfers from (to) noncontrolling interests   
      
  $  
  (4,320  
  )    

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)    
  The following table summarizes the components of Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), net of taxes (dollars in millions):

286

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)    
  The following tables summarize the components of Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to common stockholders (dollars in
millions):       
 
         287

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

Note 30. Earnings (Loss) Per Share    
  Basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share was computed by dividing Net income (loss) attributable to common stockholders by the
weighted-average common shares outstanding in the period. Diluted earnings (loss) per share was computed by giving effect to all potentially dilutive securities that were outstanding.   
  The following table summarizes basic and diluted earnings (loss) per share (in millions, except for per share amounts):   
         288

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  The year ended December 31, 2010 includes earned but undeclared dividends of $26 million on our Series A Preferred Stock and $25 million on our Series B Preferred
Stock, which decreases Net income attributable to common stockholders.         

(b)  
  The period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 includes accumulated but undeclared dividends of $34 million on Series A Preferred Stock, which
increases Net loss attributable to common stockholders, and excludes dividends of $252 million on Series A Preferred Stock, which were paid to the New VEBA prior to December 31, 2009. The 260 million shares of Series A Preferred
Stock issued to the New VEBA were not considered outstanding until December 31, 2009 due to the terms of the 2009 UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement.         GM       In the year ended December 31, 2010 we considered potentially
dilutive securities in our diluted earnings per share computation under the treasury stock method. In periods prior to our public offering, we utilized an average stock price based upon estimates of the fair value of our common stock. Subsequent to
our public offering, we used the New York Stock Exchange price.      In the year ended December 31, 2010 because the market
value of our common stock was within the price range of $33.00 to $39.60 per common share no undistributed earnings were allocated to our Series B Preferred Stock under the two-class method for purposes of calculating basic earnings per share. The
dilutive effect of these securities was determined by assuming conversion of the securities at issuance resulting in an increase to the weighted-average common shares outstanding and an increase to Net income attributable to common stockholders for
accumulated dividends on our Series B Preferred Stock.      In the year ended December 31, 2010 warrants to purchase
318 million shares were outstanding, of which 46 million were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the warrants  exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common shares. Under the
treasury stock method, the assumed exercise of the remaining 272 million warrants resulted in 106 million dilutive shares for the year ended December 31, 2010.      In the year ended December 31, 2010 diluted earnings per share included the assumed issuance of unvested restricted stock units (RSUs) granted to certain global executives. The dilutive effect of the
RSUs was included only for the period subsequent to our public offering as the RSUs prior were accounted for as liability awards prior to that date. At December 31, 2010 there were 11 million unvested RSUs outstanding.   
         289

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   In the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009, outstanding warrants to
purchase 272 million shares of common stock were not included in the computation of diluted loss per share because the effect would have been antidilutive and RSUs were excluded from the computation of diluted earnings per share as these awards
were payable in cash during that time. At December 31, 2009 there were 1 million RSUs outstanding.      In the year
ended December 31, 2010 and the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 the Adjustment Shares were excluded from the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share as the condition that would result in the issuance of the
Adjustment Shares was not satisfied.      The 61 million shares of common stock contributed to our pension plan in January
2011 will not be included in the computation of earnings per share until they meet the criteria to qualify as plan assets for accounting purposes.       Old GM       In the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009
diluted earnings per share included the potential effect of the assumed exercise of certain stock options. Old GM excluded 208 million of stock options and warrants in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the exercise price was
greater than the average market price of the common shares.      Due to Old GM s net losses in the year ended
December 31, 2008, the assumed exercise of stock options and warrants had an antidilutive effect and therefore was excluded from the computation of diluted loss per share. Old GM excluded 101 million such options and warrants in the
computation of diluted loss per share.      No shares potentially issuable to satisfy the in-the-money amount of Old GM s
convertible debentures have been included in the computation of diluted income (loss) per share for the period January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009 and in the year ended December 31, 2008 as the conversion options in various series of
convertible debentures were not in-the-money.         Note 31. Stock Incentive Plans    
   Consolidated        GM    
  Our stock incentive plans consist of the 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended December 22, 2010 (2009 GMLTIP) and the Salary
Stock Plan as amended October 5, 2010 (GMSSP). Both plans are administered by the Executive Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. The aggregate number of shares with respect to which awards may be granted under these plans shall not
exceed 75 million.      The following table summarizes compensation expense and total Income tax expense recorded for our
stock incentive plans (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Includes an insignificant amount of restricted stock granted in December 2010.     

(b)  
  Income tax expense does not include U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions which have full valuation allowances.     
         290

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
     Long-Term Incentive Plan     
  In 2010 we granted RSUs to certain global executives under the 2009 GMLTIP. We granted 15 million RSUs valued at the grant date fair
value of our common stock in the year ended December 31, 2010 and no RSUs under this plan in the period June 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009. Awards granted under the 2009 GMLTIP will generally vest over a three year service
period. Compensation cost for these awards are recorded on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Our policy is to issue new shares upon settlement of RSUs.      The awards for the Top 25 highest compensated employees will settle three years from the grant date in 25% increments in conjunction with each 25% of our Troubled Asset Relief Program (TARP) obligations
that are repaid. The awards for the non-top 25 highest compensated employees will settle after three years in 25% increments in conjunction with each 25% of the U.S. and Canadian government loans that are repaid. The U.S. and Canadian government
loans were fully repaid in April 2010, thus these awards will be settled upon completion of the remaining three year service period.      Retirement eligible participants that are non-top 25 highest compensated employees who retire during the service period will retain and vest in a pro-rata portion of RSUs earned. The vested award will be
payable on the third anniversary date of the grant. Compensation cost for these employees is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.      Prior to our public offering, all RSU awards were classified as liability awards as they were payable in cash. On November 18, 2010 we reclassified all of the RSU liability awards to equity for those
awards that became payable in shares in accordance with the plan terms.        Salary Stock     
  In November 2009 we initiated a salary stock program for certain global executives under the GMSSP whereby, a portion of each
participant s total annual compensation was accrued and converted to RSUs at each salary payment date. In 2010 a portion of each participant s salary accrued on each salary payment date converted to RSUs on a quarterly basis. Our policy is
to issue new shares upon settlement of these awards.      The awards are fully vested and nonforfeitable upon grant, therefore
compensation cost is fully recognized on the date of grant. The awards are settled quarterly over a three year period commencing on the first anniversary date of grant. Under the terms of the plan, each installment is now redeemable one year earlier
from the original settlement date as we have repaid the financial assistance we received from the UST under the TARP program in 2010. Prior to our public offering, all RSU awards were classified as liability awards as they were payable in cash. On
November 18, 2010 we reclassified all of the RSU liability awards to equity for those awards that became payable in shares in accordance with the plan terms.      The compensation cost of each RSU granted under the 2009 GMLTIP and GMSSP that will be settled in equity is based on the fair value of our common stock on the date of grant or, for those RSUs reclassified
from liability to equity-based awards, the fair value of our common stock as of the date of the public offering.   
         291

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following table summarizes our RSU activity under the 2009 GMLTIP and GMSSP in the
period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2010 (RSUs in millions):       
    At December 31, 2010 the total unrecognized compensation expense for nonvested equity awards
granted under the 2009 GMLTIP was $313 million. This expense is expected to be recorded over a weighted-average period of 2.2 years.      In the year ended December 31, 2010 total payments for 291,753 RSUs settled under the GMSSP was $5 million.       Old GM       Old GM had various stock incentive plans which were administered
by either its Executive Compensation Committee of its Board of Directors or its Vice President of Human Resources. Stock incentive awards consisted of stock options, market-contingent stock options, stock performance awards and cash-based restricted
stock units. Stock incentive awards, some of which were subject to performance conditions, were granted at fair value and were subject to various vesting conditions. In connection with the 363 Sale, MLC retained the responsibility for administering
Old GM s stock incentive plans. We have recorded no compensation expense related to Old GM s stock incentive plans subsequent to July 9, 2009.      The following table summarizes compensation expense (benefit) and total Income tax expense (benefit) recorded for the Old GM Stock Incentive Plans (dollars in millions):   

(a)  
  Income tax expense (benefit) does not include U.S. and non-U.S. jurisdictions which have full valuation allowances.     
         292

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
      Note 32. Transactions with Ally Financial    
   Automotive       Old GM
entered into various operating and financing arrangements with Ally Financial, a related party, and in connection with the 363 Sale we assumed the terms and conditions of these arrangements. The following tables describe the financial statement
effects of and maximum obligations under these agreements (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Represents liabilities (receivables) recorded and maximum obligations for agreements entered into prior to December 31, 2008. Agreements entered into in 2010 and
2009 do not include residual support or risk sharing programs. In the year ended December 31, 2010 favorable adjustments to our residual support and risk sharing liabilities of $0.6 billion were recorded in the U.S. due to increases in
estimated residual values.         

(a)  
  Payments to Ally Financial related to U.S. marketing incentive and operating lease residual programs. Excludes payments to Ally Financial related to the contractual
exposure limit, as subsequently discussed.         Marketing Incentives and Operating Lease Residuals    
  As a marketing incentive, interest rate support, residual support, risk sharing, capitalized cost reduction and lease pull-ahead programs
are initiated as a way to lower customers  monthly lease and retail contractual payments.      Under an interest rate support
program, Ally Financial is paid an amount at the time of lease or retail contract origination to adjust the interest rate in the retail contract or implicit in the lease below Ally Financial s standard interest rate. Such marketing incentives
are referred to as rate support or subvention and the amount paid at contract origination represents the present value of the difference between the customer s contractual rate and Ally Financial s standard rate for a given program.
     Under a residual support program, a customer s contract residual value is adjusted above Ally Financial s standard
residual value. Ally Financial is reimbursed to the extent that sales proceeds are less than the customer s contract residual value, limited to Ally   
         293

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

Financial s standard residual value. As it relates to Ally Financial s U.S. lease originations and U.S. balloon retail contract originations occurring after April 30,
2006, Old GM agreed to pay the present value of the expected residual support owed to Ally Financial at the time of contract origination as opposed to after contract termination when the off-lease vehicles are sold. The actual residual support
amount owed to Ally Financial is calculated as the contracts terminate and, in cases where the actual amount differs from the expected amount paid at contract origination, the difference is paid to or paid by Ally Financial, depending if sales
proceeds are lower or higher than estimated at contract origination.      Under a risk-sharing arrangement, residual losses are
shared equally with Ally Financial to the extent that remarketing proceeds are below Ally Financial s standard residual value (limited to a floor). As a result of revisions to the risk-sharing arrangement, Old GM agreed to pay Ally Financial a
quarterly fee through 2014.      In the event it is publicly announced that a GM vehicle brand will be discontinued, phased-out,
sold or other strategic options are being considered, the residual value of the related vehicles may change. If such an announcement in the U.S. or Canada results in an estimated decrease in the residual value of the related vehicles, Ally Financial
will be reimbursed for the estimated decrease for certain vehicles for a certain period of time. If such an announcement results in an increase in the residual value of the related vehicles, Ally Financial will pay the increase in the sale proceeds
received at auction.      Under a capitalized cost reduction program, Ally Financial is paid an amount at the time of lease or
retail contract origination to reduce the principal amount implicit in the lease or retail contract below the standard manufacturers  suggested retail price.      Under a lease pull-ahead program, a customer is encouraged to terminate their lease early and buy or lease a new GM vehicle. As part of such a program, Ally Financial waives the customer s remaining
payment obligation under their current lease, and Ally Financial is compensated for any foregone revenue from the waived payments. Since these programs generally accelerate the resale of the vehicle, the proceeds are typically higher than if the
vehicle had been sold at contract maturity. The reimbursement to Ally Financial for the foregone payments is reduced by the amount of this benefit. Anticipated payments are made to Ally Financial each month based on the estimated number of customers
expected to participate in a lease-pull ahead program. These estimates are adjusted once all vehicles that could have been pulled-ahead have terminated and the vehicles have been sold. Any differences between the estimates and the actual amounts
owed to or from Ally Financial are subsequently settled.      In May 2009 Old GM entered into the Amended and Restated United
States Consumer Financing Services Agreement (Amended Financing Agreement) with an effective date of December 29, 2008. The terms of the Amended Financing Agreement included conditions of interest rate support, residual support, risk sharing,
capitalized cost reduction, and lease pull-ahead programs.       Exclusivity Arrangement    
  In November 2006 Old GM granted Ally Financial exclusivity for U.S., Canadian and international GM-sponsored consumer and wholesale
marketing incentives for products in specified markets around the world, with the exception of Saturn branded products. In return for exclusivity, Ally Financial paid an annual exclusivity fee of $105 million ($75 million for the
U.S. retail business, $15 million for the Canadian retail business, $10 million for the international operations retail business, and $5 million for the dealer business).   
  As a result of the Amended Financing Agreement, Old GM and Ally Financial agreed to modify certain terms related to the exclusivity
arrangements: (1) for a two-year period, retail financing incentive programs can be offered through a third party financing source under certain specified circumstances, and in some cases subject to the limitation that pricing offered by such
third party meets certain restrictions, and after such two-year period any such incentive programs can be offered on a graduated basis through third parties on a non-exclusive, side-by-side basis with Ally Financial provided that pricing with such
third parties meets certain requirements; (2) Ally Financial has no obligation to provide financing; and (3) Ally Financial has no targets against which it could be assessed penalties. After December 24, 2013 we will have the right to
offer retail financing incentive programs through any third party financing source, including Ally Financial, without any restrictions or limitations.   
         294

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   Beginning in 2009 under the Amended Financing Agreement, Old GM agreed to pro-rate the
exclusivity fee in the U.S. and Canada under certain circumstances if incentives were offered through a third party financing source. The international exclusivity fee arrangement remains unchanged and the dealer exclusivity fee was terminated.
     In December 2008 Old GM and FIM Holdings entered into the Ally Financial Exchange Agreement with Ally Financial. Pursuant to
the Ally Financial Exchange Agreement, Old GM and FIM Holdings exchanged their respective amounts funded under the Ally Financial Participation Agreement for 79,368 Class B Common Membership Interests and 82,608 Class A Common Membership
Interests. As the carrying amount of the amount funded under the Ally Financial Participation Agreement approximated fair value, Old GM did not recognize a gain or loss on the exchange.       Contractual Exposure Limit       An agreement between Ally Financial and Old GM
limited certain unsecured obligations arising from service agreements to Ally Financial in the U.S. to $1.5 billion. In accordance with the Amended Financing Agreement, Old GM and Ally Financial agreed to increase the probable potential
unsecured exposure limit from $1.5 billion in the United States to $2.1 billion globally. Ally Financial s maximum potential unsecured exposure to us cannot exceed $4.1 billion globally. Old GM and Ally Financial also agreed to reduce the
global unsecured obligation limit from $2.1 billion to $1.5 billion at December 31, 2010. Old GM and Ally Financial agreed that the sum of the maximum unsecured and committed secured exposures at December 31, 2010 will not exceed the
greater of $3.0 billion or 15% of Ally Financial s capital.       Vehicle Repurchase Obligations    
  In May 2009 Old GM and Ally Financial agreed to expand Old GM s repurchase obligations for Ally Financial financed inventory at
certain dealers in Europe, Asia, Brazil and Mexico. In November 2008 Old GM and Ally Financial agreed to expand repurchase obligations for Ally Financial financed inventory at certain dealers in the United States and Canada. The current agreement
with Ally Financial requires the repurchase of Ally Financial financed inventory invoiced to dealers after September 1, 2008, with limited exclusions, in the event of a qualifying voluntary or involuntary termination of the dealer s sales
and service agreement. Repurchase obligations exclude vehicles which are damaged, have excessive mileage or have been altered. The repurchase obligation ended in August 2010 for vehicles invoiced through August 2009, ends in August 2011 for vehicles
invoiced through August 2010 and ends August 2012 for vehicles invoiced through August 2011.      The maximum potential amount of
future payments required to be made to Ally Financial under this guarantee is based on the repurchase value of total eligible vehicles financed by Ally Financial in dealer stock. If vehicles are required to be repurchased under this arrangement, the
total exposure would be reduced to the extent vehicles are able to be resold to another dealer. The fair value of the guarantee, which considers the likelihood of dealers terminating and estimated loss exposure for ultimate disposition of vehicles,
was recorded as a reduction of revenue.       Automotive Retail Leases    
  In November 2006 Ally Financial transferred automotive retail leases to Old GM, along with related debt and other assets. Ally Financial
retained an investment in a note, which is secured by the automotive retail leases. Ally Financial continues to service the portfolio of automotive retail leases and related debt and receives a servicing fee. Ally Financial is obligated, as
servicer, to repurchase any equipment on operating leases that are in breach of any of the covenants in the securitization agreements. In addition, in a number of the transactions securitizing the equipment on operating leases, the trusts issued one
or more series of floating rate debt obligations and entered into derivative transactions to eliminate the market risk associated with funding the fixed payment lease assets with floating interest rate debt. To facilitate these securitization
transactions, Ally Financial entered into secondary derivative transactions with the primary derivative counterparties, essentially offsetting the primary derivatives. As part of the transfer, Old GM assumed the rights and obligations of the primary
derivative while Ally Financial retained the secondary, leaving both companies   
         295

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

exposed to market value movements of their respective derivatives. Old GM subsequently entered into derivative transactions with Ally Financial that are intended to offset the exposure each party
has to its component of the primary and secondary derivatives.       Royalty Arrangement    
  For certain insurance products, Old GM entered into 10-year intellectual property license agreements with Ally Financial giving Ally
Financial the right to use the GM name on certain products. In exchange, Ally Financial pays a royalty fee of 3.25% of revenue, net of cancellations, related to these products with a minimum annual guarantee of $15 million in the United States.
      Balance Sheet       The following table summarizes the balance sheet effects of transactions with Ally Financial (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Represents wholesale settlements due from Ally Financial, amounts owed by Ally Financial with respect to automotive retail leases and receivables for exclusivity fees
and royalties.         

(b)  
  Represents certificates of deposit purchased from Ally Financial that are pledged as collateral for certain guarantees provided to Ally Financial in Brazil in
connection with dealer floor plan financing.         

(c)  
  Primarily represents distributions due from Ally Financial on our investments in Ally Financial preferred stock.     

(d)  
  Primarily represents amounts billed to us and payable related to incentive programs.     

(e)  
  Represents wholesale financing, sales of receivable transactions and the short-term portion of term loans provided to certain dealerships which we own or in which we
have an equity interest. It includes borrowing arrangements with various foreign locations and arrangements related to Ally Financial s funding of company-owned vehicles, rental car vehicles awaiting sale at auction and funding of the sale of
vehicles to which title is retained while the vehicles are consigned to Ally Financial or dealers, primarily in the United Kingdom. Financing remains outstanding until the title is transferred to the dealers. This amount also includes the short-term
portion of a note payable related to automotive retail leases.         

(f)  
  Primarily represents accruals for marketing incentives on vehicles which are sold, or anticipated to be sold, to customers or dealers and financed by Ally Financial in
North America. This includes the estimated amount of residual support accrued under the residual support and risk sharing programs, rate support under the interest rate support programs, operating lease and finance receivable capitalized cost
reduction incentives paid to Ally Financial to reduce the capitalized cost in automotive lease contracts and retail automotive contracts, and amounts owed under lease pull-ahead programs. In addition it includes interest accrued on the transactions
in (e) above.         

(g)  
  Primarily represents the long-term portion of term loans from Ally Financial to certain consolidated dealerships.     

(h)  
  Primarily represents long-term portion of liabilities for marketing incentives on vehicles financed by Ally Financial.     
         296

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
    Statement of Operations       The following table summarizes the income statement effects of transactions with Ally Financial (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Primarily represents the increase (reduction) in Total net sales and revenue for marketing incentives on vehicles which were sold, or anticipated to be sold, to
customers or dealers and financed by Ally Financial. This includes the estimated amount of residual support accrued under residual support and risk sharing programs, rate support under the interest rate support programs, operating lease and finance
receivable capitalized cost reduction incentives paid to Ally Financial to reduce the capitalized cost in automotive lease contracts and retail automotive contracts, and costs under lease pull-ahead programs. This amount is offset by net sales for
vehicles sold to Ally Financial for employee and governmental lease programs and third party resale purposes.         

(b)  
  Primarily represents cost of sales on the sale of vehicles to Ally Financial for employee and governmental lease programs and third party resale purposes. Also includes
miscellaneous expenses on services performed by Ally Financial.         

(c)  
  Represents income on investments in Ally Financial preferred stock and Preferred Membership Interests, exclusivity and royalty fee income and reimbursements by Ally
Financial for certain services provided to Ally Financial. Included in this amount is rental income related to Ally Financial s primary executive and administrative offices located in the Renaissance Center in Detroit, Michigan. The lease
agreement expires in November 2016.         

(d)  
  Represents interest incurred on term loans, notes payable and wholesale settlements.     

(e)  
  Represents servicing fees paid to Ally Financial on certain automotive retail leases.     

(f)  
  Represents amounts recorded in connection with a derivative transaction entered into with Ally Financial as the counterparty.     
     Note 33. Transactions with MLC        Automotive       In connection with the 363 Sale, we and MLC entered into a
Transition Services Agreement (TSA), pursuant to which, among other things, we provided MLC with certain transition services and support functions in connection with their operation and ultimate liquidation in bankruptcy. MLC is required to pay the
applicable usage fees specified with respect to various types of services under the TSA. Types of services provided under the TSA included: (1) property management; (2) assistance in idling certain facilities; (3) provisions of access
rights and storage of personal property at certain facilities; (4) security; (5) administrative services including accounting, treasury and tax; (6) purchasing; (7) information systems and services support; (8) communication
services to the public; and (9) splinter union services including payroll and benefits administration. Services MLC provides to us under the TSA include: (1) provisions of access rights and storage of personal property at certain
facilities; (2) assistance in obtaining certain permits and consents to permit us to own and operate purchased assets in connection with the 363 Sale; (3) allowing us to manage and exercise our rights under the TSA; and (4) use of
certain real estate and equipment while we are in negotiation to assume or renegotiate certain leases or enter into agreements to purchase certain lease-related assets. At December 31, 2010 we are not obligated to provide any services under the
TSA.   
         297

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   On October 1, 2010 we completed the acquisition of the Strasbourg transmission
business from MLC. The purchase price was one Euro. Refer to Note 5 for additional information on the acquisition of GMS.       Statement of
Operations       The following table summarizes the income statements effect of transactions with MLC (dollars in millions):

(a)  
  Primarily related to royalty income partially offset by reimbursements for engineering expenses incurred by MLC.     
   Balance Sheet       The
following table summarizes the balance sheets effect of transactions with MLC (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Primarily related to the purchase and sale of component parts.         Cash Flow       The following table summarizes the cash flow effects of
transactions with MLC (dollars in millions):       

(a)  
  Primarily includes payments to MLC related to the purchase and the sale of component parts.     

(b)  
  Payments received from a facility in Strasbourg, France that MLC retained and we subsequently acquired in October 2010.     
         298

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
      Note 34. Supplementary Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)
       Consolidated       The following tables summarize supplementary quarterly financial information (dollars in millions, except per share amounts):   

GM    
  Results for the three months ended December 31, 2010 included:   

A charge of $677 million related to our purchase of 84 million shares of Series A Preferred Stock from the UST.

A reversal of our $231 million liability for contingently issuable Adjustment Shares based on a revised assessment of the estimate of allowed
general unsecured claims against MLC.          

A gain of $198 million related to our repayment of the VEBA Notes of $2.8 billion.      

Restructuring reserve decrease of $183 million in GMNA primarily related to capacity actions and revisions to productivity initiatives.

Restructuring charges and interest accretion and other of $154 million in GME primarily related to separation programs announced in Belgium,
Spain, Germany and the United Kingdom.          

Income before income taxes and equity income and net income of $129 million and $90 million related to the October 1, 2010 acquisition of
GM Financial including net income of $10 million related to amounts recorded to reflect the changes in the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets that were not applicable to GM Financial on a stand-alone basis.      
         299

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   Results for the three months ended September 30, 2010 included:   

Restructuring charges and interest accretion and other of $153 million in GME primarily related to separation programs announced in Belgium,
Spain, Germany and the United Kingdom.          

Impairment charges of $140 million related to product-specific tooling assets in GMNA.      
  Results for the three months ended June 30, 2010 included:   

Restructuring charges and interest accretion and other of $235 million in GME primarily related to separation programs announced in Belgium, the
United Kingdom and Germany.          

Charge of $200 million relating to a recall campaign on windshield fluid heaters.      
  Results for the three months ended March 31, 2010 included:   

Restructuring charges and interest accretion and other of $305 million in GME primarily related to separation programs announced in Belgium and
Spain. These charges were partially offset by a favorable adjustment of $104 million related to GMNA restructuring reserves due to increased production capacity utilization, which resulted in the recall of idled employees to fill added shifts at
multiple U.S. production sites.         Results for the three months ended December 31, 2009 included:

Impairment charges of $270 million related to our investment in Ally Financial common stock.      

Settlement loss of $2.6 billion related to the 2009 UAW Settlement Agreement.      
  Results for the period July 10, 2009 through September 30, 2009 included:   

Charges of $195 million related to dealer wind-down agreements.          Old GM       Results for the period July 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009
included:       

Accelerated debt discount amortization of $600 million on the DIP Facility.      

Reorganization gains, net of $129.3 billion. Refer to Note 2 for additional information on these gains.      

Charges of $398 million related to dealer wind-down agreements.      
  Results for the three months ended June 30, 2009 included:   

Gain of $2.5 billion on the disposition of Ally Financial Common Membership Interests partially offset by a loss on extinguishment of the UST
Ally Financial Loan of $2.0 billion.      
         300

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

Accelerated debt discount amortization of $1.6 billion on the DIP Facility.      

Charges of $1.9 billion related to U.S. salaried and hourly headcount reduction programs.      

Restructuring charges of $1.1 billion related to SUB and TSP.      

Reorganization costs of $1.1 billion, primarily related to loss on extinguishment of debt of $958 million.      

Impairment charges of $239 million related to product-specific tooling assets.      
  Results for the three months ended March 31, 2009 included:   

Old GM amended the terms of its U.S. term loan and recorded a gain of $906 million on the extinguishment of the original loan facility.

Upon Saab s filing for reorganization, Old GM recorded charges of $618 million related to its net investment in, and advances to, Saab and
other commitments and obligations.          

Impairment charges of $327 million related to product-specific tooling assets and cancelled powertrain programs.      
     Note 35. Segment Reporting        Consolidated       We design, build and sell cars, trucks and parts worldwide.
We also conduct our automotive finance operations through GM Financial. We manage our operations through our five segments: GMNA, GME, GMIO, GMSA and GM Financial. Each segment has a manager responsible for executing our strategies. Our automotive
manufacturing operations are integrated within the segments, benefit from broad-based trade agreements and are subject to regulatory requirements, such as Corporate Average Fuel Economy (CAFE) regulations. While not all vehicles within a segment are
individually profitable on a fully loaded cost basis, those vehicles are needed in our product mix in order to attract customers to dealer showrooms and to maintain sales volumes for other, more profitable vehicles. Because of these factors, we do
not manage our business on an individual brand or vehicle basis. The chief operating decision maker evaluates the operating results and performance of our automotive segments through Income (loss) before interest and income taxes and evaluates GM
Financial through Income (loss) before income taxes.      In the year ended December 31, 2010 we changed our managerial and
financial reporting structure so that certain entities geographically located within Russia and Uzbekistan were transferred from our GME segment to our GMIO segment, and certain entities geographically located in Brazil, Argentina, Colombia,
Ecuador, Venezuela, Bolivia, Chile, Paraguay, Peru and Uruguay were transferred from our GMIO segment to our newly created GMSA segment. We have retrospectively revised the segment presentation for all periods presented.   
  Substantially all of the cars, trucks and parts produced are marketed through retail dealers in North America, and through distributors
and dealers outside of North America, the substantial majority of which are independently owned.      In addition to the products
sold to dealers for consumer retail sales, cars and trucks are also sold to fleet customers, including daily rental car companies, commercial fleet customers, leasing companies and governments. Sales to fleet customers are completed through the
network of dealers and in some cases sold directly to fleet customers. Retail and fleet customers can obtain a wide range of aftersale vehicle services and products through the dealer network, such as maintenance, light repairs, collision repairs,
vehicle accessories and extended service warranties.   
         301

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   GMNA primarily meets the demands of customers in North America with vehicles developed,
manufactured and/or marketed under the following four brands:       

Buick   
      
           Cadillac   
      
           Chevrolet   
      
           GMC     
  The demands of customers outside of North America are primarily met with vehicles developed, manufactured and/or marketed under the
following brands:       

Buick   
      
           Daewoo   
      
           Holden   
      
           Opel    
 
          Cadillac   
      
           GMC   
      
           Isuzu   
      
           Vauxhall    
 
          Chevrolet   

At December 31, 2010 we also had equity ownership stakes directly or indirectly in entities
through various regional subsidiaries, including GM Daewoo, SGM, SGMW, FAW-GM and HKJV. In January 2011 GM Daewoo announced it will be changing its name to GM Korea and will sell most of its cars under the Chevrolet brand. These companies design,
manufacture and market vehicles under the following brands:       

Buick   
      
           Daewoo   
      
           GMC   
      
           Jiefang    
 
          Cadillac   
      
           FAW   
      
           Holden   
      
           Wuling    
 
          Chevrolet   

Nonsegment operations are classified as Corporate and Corporate assets, liabilities and results of
operations are a component of Total Automotive in our consolidated financial statements. Corporate includes investments in Ally Financial, certain centrally recorded income and costs, such as interest, income taxes and corporate expenditures,
certain nonsegment specific revenues and expenses, including costs related to the Delphi Benefit Guarantee Agreements and a portfolio of automotive retail leases.      All intersegment balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.   
         302

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   The following tables summarize key financial information by segment (dollars in
millions):       

(a)  
  The financial information presented for our GM Financial segment includes adjustments made to decrease Income tax expense and increase Net income (loss) attributable to
stockholders by $10 million and increase Total assets by $22 million to record the effect of changes in the valuation allowance on deferred tax assets that were not applicable to GM Financial on a stand-alone basis.     

(b)  
  Amounts exclude changes related to income tax expense (benefit) in jurisdictions with a full valuation allowance throughout the period.     
         303

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  Amounts exclude changes related to income tax expense (benefit) in jurisdictions with a full valuation allowance throughout the period.     
         304

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  Amounts exclude changes related to income tax expense (benefit) in jurisdictions with a full valuation allowance throughout the period.     

(b)  
  Refer to Note 2 for additional information on Reorganization gains, net.     
         305

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    

(a)  
  Amounts exclude changes related to income tax expense (benefit) in jurisdictions with a full valuation allowance throughout the period.     
         306

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
   Automotive revenue is attributed to geographic areas based on the country in which the
product is sold, except for revenue from certain joint ventures. In such case, the revenue is attributed based on the geographic location of the joint venture. Automotive Financing revenue is attributed to the geographic area where the financing is
originated. The following table summarizes information concerning principal geographic areas (dollars in millions):       
    The following table summarizes the aggregation of principal geographic information by U.S. and non-U.S.
(dollars in millions):       
 
         307

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS   (Continued)    
     
      Note 36. Supplemental Information for Consolidated Statements of Cash
Flows        Consolidated       The following table summarizes the sources (uses) of cash provided by changes in other operating assets and liabilities (dollars in millions):   
   
    *  *  *  *  *  *  *   
         308

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
     
      Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
and Financial Disclosure       None      *  *  *  *  *  *  
*         Item 9A. Controls and Procedures        Disclosure Controls and Procedures       We maintain disclosure controls and
procedures designed to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in reports filed under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act) is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the specified
time periods and accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.   
  Our management, with the participation of our Chairman and CEO and our Vice Chairman and CFO, evaluated the effectiveness of our
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) or 15d-15(e) promulgated under the Exchange Act) at December 31, 2010. Based on these evaluations, our CEO and CFO concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures required
by paragraph (b) of Rules 13a-15 or 15d-15 were effective as of December 31, 2010.       Management s Report on Internal Control
over Financial Reporting       Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting. This system is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. GAAP.   
  Our internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records
that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect our transactions and dispositions of our assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of consolidated financial statements
in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of our management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of our assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.      Our management performed an assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting at December 31, 2010, utilizing the criteria discussed in the  Internal Control
  Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The objective of this assessment was to determine whether our internal control over financial reporting was effective at
December 31, 2010.      Based on management s assessment, we have concluded that our internal control over financial
reporting was effective at December 31, 2010. The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting has been audited by Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in its report which
is included herein.       Remediation and Changes in Internal Controls    
  In our 2009 Annual Report on Form 10-K, we identified a material weakness because we did not maintain effective controls over the
period-end financial reporting process. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or
interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.      In 2009, significant
activities were performed in remediating the material weakness. However, we were not able to sufficiently test the operating effectiveness of certain remediated internal controls given the limited time that controls were in operation. During 2010,
management led various initiatives to further enhance our controls over period-end financial reporting, including training and   
         309

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    

enhanced procedures related to the preparation of the statement of cash flows, to help ensure controls over the period-end financial reporting process would operate as they had been designed and
deployed during the 2009 material weakness remediation efforts. Based upon the actions taken and our testing and evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls, we have concluded the material weakness related to controls over the
period-end financial reporting process no longer existed as of December 31, 2010.      Other than as previously discussed,
there have not been any other changes in our internal control over financial reporting in the three months ended December 31, 2010, which have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over
financial reporting.       

/s/    DANIEL F. AKERSON   

/s/    CHRISTOPHER P. LIDDELL    
 
    Daniel F. Akerson     Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer   

Christopher P. Liddell     Vice
Chairman and Chief Financial Officer    

March 1, 2011  

March 1, 2011        Limitations on the Effectiveness of
Controls       Our management, including our CEO and CFO, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or
internal control over financial reporting will prevent or detect all errors and all fraud. A control system cannot provide absolute assurance due to its inherent limitations; it is a process that involves human diligence and compliance and is
subject to lapses in judgment and breakdowns resulting from human failures. A control system also can be circumvented by collusion or improper management override. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource
constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of such limitations, disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting cannot prevent or detect all misstatements, whether
unintentional errors or fraud. However, these inherent limitations are known features of the financial reporting process, therefore, it is possible to design into the process safeguards to reduce, though not eliminate, this risk.   
  *  *  *  *  *  *  *         Item 9B.       Other Information       None   
  *  *  *  *  *  *  *   
         310

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
     
      PART III    
     Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
  We have adopted a code of ethics that applies to the Corporation s directors, officers, and employees, including the Chief Executive
Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer and any other persons performing similar functions. The text of our code of ethics,  Winning With Integrity,  has been posted on our website at
 http://investor.gm.com  at Investors   Corporate Governance.  We will provide a copy of the code of ethics without charge upon request to Corporate Secretary, General Motors Company, Mail Code 482-C25-A36, 300 Renaissance Center,
P.O. Box 300, Detroit, MI 48265-3000.      *  *  *  *  *  *  *
        I  tems   10,   11, 12, 13, and 14
      Information required by Part III (Items 10, 11, 12, 13, and 14) of this Form 10-K is incorporated by reference from our
definitive Proxy Statement for our 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later than 120 days after the end of the 2010 fiscal year, all of which
information is hereby incorporated by reference in, and made part of, this Form 10-K, except the information required by Item 10 with respect to our code of ethics in Item 10 above and disclosure of our executive officers, which is
included in Item 1 of Part I of this report.   
  *  *  *  *  *  *  *   
         311

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
     
      PART IV    
     ITEM 15. Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedule    

(a)  
  1.     All Financial Statements and Supplemental Information     

2.  
  Financial Statement Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts         

(b)  
  Exhibits         

Exhibit       Number    
      
     Exhibit Name    

3.1  
      
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of General Motors Company dated December 7, 2010, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General
Motors Company filed December 13, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

3.2  
      
  Bylaws of General Motors Company, dated December 7, 2010, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed December
13, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

4.1  
      
  Certificate of Designations of Series A Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of General Motors Company, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

4.2  
      
  Certificate of Designations of 4.75% Series B Mandatory Convertible Junior Preferred Stock of General Motors Company  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.1   
      
  Second Amended and Restated Secured Credit Agreement among General Motors Company, as Borrower, the Guarantors, and the United States Department of the Treasury, as Lender, dated
August 12, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.2   
      
  Assignment and Assumption Agreement and Third Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Secured Credit Agreement among General Motors LLC, General Motors Holdings LLC, General Motors
Company and the United States Department of the Treasury, as Lender, dated as of October 19, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.3  
      
  Letter Agreement regarding the Second Amended and Restated Secured Credit Agreement among General Motors Holdings LLC, as Borrower, the Guarantors, and the United States Department
of the Treasury, as Lender, dated September 22, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.41 to Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-168919) of General Motors Company filed September 23,
2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.4   
      
  Credit Agreement, dated as of October 27, 2010, among the General Motors Holdings LLC, the lenders party thereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and Bank of America, N.A.,
as syndication agent, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Amendment No. 5 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-168919) of General Motors Company filed November 3, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.5   
      
  Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement by and among General Motors of Canada Limited, as Borrower, and the other loan parties and Export Development Canada, as Lender, dated
July 10, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference    
         312

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    

Exhibit       Number    
      
     Exhibit Name    

10.6  
      
  Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement by and among General Motors of Canada Limited, as Borrower, and the other loan parties and Export Development Canada, as
Lender, dated October 15, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed October 23, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.7  
      
  Settlement Agreement dated as of September 10, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed September 17,
2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.8  
      
  Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2009 between General Motors Company (fka General Motors Holding Company), General Motors LLC (fka General Motors Company) and Motors Liquidation
Company, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.9  
      
  Stockholders Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2009 between General Motors Company, the United States Department of the Treasury, Canada GEN Investment Corporation (fka 7176384
Canada Inc.), the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust, and, for limited purposes, General Motors LLC, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.10  
      
  Equity Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2009, between General Motors Company, the United States Department of Treasury, Canada GEN Investment Corporation (fka
7176384 Canada Inc.), the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust, Motors Liquidation Company, and, for limited purposes, General Motors LLC, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Motors Liquidation Company
filed October 21, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.11  
      
  Letter Agreement regarding Equity Registration Rights Agreement, dated October 21, 2010, among General Motors Company, the United States Department of Treasury, Canada GEN
Investment Corporation, the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust and Motors Liquidation Company, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.43 to Amendment No. 5 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-168919) of General Motors
Company filed November 3, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.12  
      
  Master Disposition Agreement among Delphi Corporation, GM Components Holdings, LLC, General Motors Company, Motors Liquidation Company (fka General Motors Corporation), DIP Holdco
3, LLC, and the other sellers and other buyers party thereto dated July 26, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed August 7, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.13  
      
  Investment Commitment Agreement by and among Silver Point Capital Fund, LP, Silver Point Capital Offshore Fund, Ltd., Elliott Associates, LP, DIP Holdco 3, LLC, and General Motors
Company dated July 26, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed August 7, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.14  
      
  Amended and Restated Global Settlement Agreement Between Delphi Corporation and General Motors Corporation, Dated September 12, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10(b) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Motors Liquidation Company filed November 10, 2008  
      
  Incorporated by Reference    
         313

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    

Exhibit       Number    
      
     Exhibit Name    

10.15  
      
  UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement, dated July 10, 2009, between General Motors Company and the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of
America (the UAW), with the UAW also entering into the agreement as the authorized representative of certain persons receiving retiree benefits pursuant to collectively bargained plans, programs and/or agreement between General Motors Company and
the UAW, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of General Motors Company filed April 7, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.16  
      
  Form of Compensation Statement, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of General Motors Company filed April 7, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.17  
      
  Summary of Employment Arrangement between General Motors Company and Daniel F. Akerson, incorporated herein by reference to Item 5.02 of the Current Report on Form 8-K of General
Motors Company filed September 10, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.18  
      
  Employment Agreement for Christopher P. Liddell, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of General Motors Company filed May 17,
2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.19  
      
  Summary of Consulting Arrangement between General Motors Company and Stephen J. Girsky, incorporated herein by reference to Item 1.01 of the Current Report on Form 8-K of General
Motors Company filed January 15, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.20  
      
  Summary of Employment Arrangement between General Motors Company and Stephen J. Girsky, incorporated herein by reference to Item 1.01 of the Current Report on Form 8-K of General
Motors Company filed March 5, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.21  
      
  Summary of Employment Arrangement between General Motors Company and Edward E. Whitacre, Jr., incorporated herein by reference to Item 5.02 of the Current Report on Form 8-K of
General Motors Company filed February 19, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.22  
      
  Summary of Fee Arrangement between General Motors Company and Edward E. Whitacre, Jr., incorporated herein by reference to Item 5.02 of the Current Report on Form 8-K of General
Motors Company filed September 10, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.23  
      
  General Motors Executive Retirement Plan, as amended August 2, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to Amendment No. 2 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File
No. 333-168919) of General Motors Company filed October 14, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.24  
      
  General Motors Company 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended December 22, 2010  
      
  Filed Herewith   

10.25  
      
  General Motors Company Salary Stock Plan, as amended October 5, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to Amendment No. 2 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File
No. 333-168919) of General Motors Company filed October 14, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.26  
      
  General Motors Company Short Term Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to Amendment No. 2 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-168919) of
General Motors Company filed October 14, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.27  
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Grant made to top 25 highly compensated employees under General Motors Company 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as Amended March 1, 2010, incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of General Motors Company filed April 7, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference    
         314

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    

Exhibit       Number    
      
     Exhibit Name    

10.28  
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Grant (Cash Settlement) made to top 25 highly compensated employees under General Motors Company 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as Amended March 1,
2010, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of General Motors Company filed April 7, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.29  
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Grant made to certain executive officers, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.a to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Motors Liquidation
Company filed May 8, 2008  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.30  
      
  Form of General Motors Company 2010 Equity Grant Award Agreement  
      
  Filed Herewith   

10.31  
      
  Form of General Motors Company March 15, 2010 Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement, as amended December 31, 2010  
      
  Filed Herewith   

10.32  
      
  General Motors Company Vehicle Operations   Senior Management Vehicle Program (SMVP) Supplement, revised December 15, 2005, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to
the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Motors Liquidation Company filed March 28, 2006  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.33   
      
  Amended and Restated United States Consumer Financing Services Agreement between GMAC LLC and General Motors Corporation dated May 22, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.34   
      
  Amended and Restated Master Services Agreement between GMAC LLC and General Motors Corporation dated May 22, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K/A of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.35  
      
  Agreement, dated as of October 22, 2001, between General Motors Corporation and General Motors Acceptance Corporation, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10 to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Motors Liquidation Company filed March 28, 2006  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.36  
      
  United States Consumer Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2006, between General Motors Corporation and GMAC LLC, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K of Motors Liquidation Company filed November 30, 2006  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.37  
      
  Amended and Restated Warrant Agreement, dated as of October 16, 2009, between General Motors Company and U.S. Bank National Association, including Form of Warrant Certificate
attached as Exhibit D thereto, relating to warrants with a $30 original ($10 after stock split) exercise price and a July 10, 2016 expiration date, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of General Motors
Company filed April 7, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.38  
      
  Amended and Restated Warrant Agreement, dated as of October 16, 2009, between General Motors Company and U.S. Bank National Association, including Form of Warrant Certificate
attached as Exhibit D thereto, relating to warrants with a $55 original ($18.33 after stock split) exercise price and a July 10, 2019 expiration date, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of General
Motors Company filed April 7, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference    
         315

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    

Exhibit       Number    
      
     Exhibit Name    

10.39  
      
  Amended and Restated Warrant Agreement, dated as of October 16, 2009, between General Motors Company and U.S. Bank National Association, including Form of Warrant Certificate
attached as Exhibit D thereto, relating to warrants with a $126.92 original ($42.31 after stock split) exercise price and a December 31, 2015 expiration date, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K
of General Motors Company filed April 7, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.40  
      
  Amended and Restated Master Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated June 26, 2009, between General Motors Corporation, Saturn LLC, Saturn Distribution Corporation, Chevrolet-Saturn of
Harlem, Inc., and General Motors Company (fka NGMCO, Inc.), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Motors Liquidation Company filed July 2, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.41  
      
  First Amendment to Amended and Restated Master Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated June 30, 2009, between General Motors Corporation, Saturn LLC, Saturn Distribution Corporation,
Chevrolet-Saturn of Harlem, Inc., and General Motors Company (fka NGMCO, Inc.), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Motors Liquidation Company filed July 8, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.42  
      
  Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Master Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated July 5, 2009, between General Motors Corporation, Saturn LLC, Saturn Distribution Corporation,
Chevrolet-Saturn of Harlem, Inc., and General Motors Company (fka NGMCO, Inc.), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Motors Liquidation Company filed July 8, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.43  
      
  Letter Agreement regarding Series A Purchase, dated October 27, 2010, between General Motors Company and the United States Department of the Treasury, incorporated herein by
reference to Item 10.42 to Amendment No. 4 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-168919) of General Motors Company filed September 28, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.44  
      
  Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2011, by and among General Motors Company, Evercore Trust Company, N.A., as trustee of the General Motors Special Hourly-Rate
Employees Pension Trust, and Evercore Trust Company, N.A., as trustee of the General Motors Special Salaried Employees Pension Trust  
      
  Filed Herewith   

10.45  
      
  Stockholders Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2011, by and among General Motors Company, Evercore Trust Company, N.A., as trustee of the General Motors Special Hourly-Rate
Employees Pension Trust, and Evercore Trust Company, N.A., as trustee of the General Motors Special Salaried Employees Pension Trust  
      
  Filed Herewith   

12  
      
  Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges for the Year Ended December 31, 2010, the Periods July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 and January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009
and for the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006  
      
  Filed Herewith   

21  
      
  Subsidiaries of the Registrant as of December 31, 2010  
      
  Filed Herewith   

24  
      
  Power of Attorney for Directors of General Motors Company  
      
  Filed Herewith   

31.1  
      
  Section 302 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer  
      
  Filed Herewith   

31.2  
      
  Section 302 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer  
      
  Filed Herewith   

32.1  
      
  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
      
  Filed Herewith    
         316

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    

Exhibit       Number    
      
     Exhibit Name    

32.2  
      
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
      
  Filed Herewith   

99.1  
      
  Consolidated Financial Statements of Ally Financial Inc. (fka GMAC Inc.) and subsidiaries at December 31, 2010 and 2009 and for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2010  
      
  Filed Herewith   

99.2  
      
  Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Executive Privileges and Compensation Certificate  
      
  Filed Herewith        

Certain confidential portions have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment, which has been separately filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.     
         317

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    
     
    EXHIBIT INDEX    

Exhibit       Number    
      
     Exhibit Name    

3.1  
      
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of General Motors Company dated December 7, 2010, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General
Motors Company filed December 13, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

3.2  
      
  Bylaws of General Motors Company, dated December 7, 2010, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed December
13, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

4.1  
      
  Certificate of Designations of Series A Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of General Motors Company, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

4.2  
      
  Certificate of Designations of 4.75% Series B Mandatory Convertible Junior Preferred Stock of General Motors Company  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.1   
      
  Second Amended and Restated Secured Credit Agreement among General Motors Company, as Borrower, the Guarantors, and the United States Department of the Treasury, as Lender, dated
August 12, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.2   
      
  Assignment and Assumption Agreement and Third Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Secured Credit Agreement among General Motors LLC, General Motors Holdings LLC, General Motors
Company and the United States Department of the Treasury, as Lender, dated as of October 19, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.3  
      
  Letter Agreement regarding the Second Amended and Restated Secured Credit Agreement among General Motors Holdings LLC, as Borrower, the Guarantors, and the United States Department
of the Treasury, as Lender, dated September 22, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.41 to Amendment No. 1 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-168919) of General Motors Company filed September 23, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.4   
      
  Credit Agreement, dated as of October 27, 2010, among the General Motors Holdings LLC, the lenders party thereto, Citibank, N.A., as administrative agent, and Bank of America, N.A.,
as syndication agent, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Amendment No. 5 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-168919) of General Motors Company filed November 3, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.5   
      
  Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement by and among General Motors of Canada Limited, as Borrower, and the other loan parties and Export Development Canada, as Lender, dated
July 10, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.6  
      
  Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Loan Agreement by and among General Motors of Canada Limited, as Borrower, and the other loan parties and Export Development Canada, as
Lender, dated October 15, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed October 23, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.7  
      
  Settlement Agreement dated as of September 10, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed September 17,
2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference    
         318

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    

Exhibit       Number    
      
     Exhibit Name    

10.8  
      
  Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2009 between General Motors Company (fka General Motors Holding Company), General Motors LLC (fka General Motors Company) and Motors Liquidation
Company, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.9  
      
  Stockholders Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2009 between General Motors Company, the United States Department of the Treasury, Canada GEN Investment Corporation (fka 7176384
Canada Inc.), the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust, and, for limited purposes, General Motors LLC, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.10  
      
  Equity Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2009, between General Motors Company, the United States Department of Treasury, Canada GEN Investment Corporation (fka
7176384 Canada Inc.), the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust, Motors Liquidation Company, and, for limited purposes, General Motors LLC, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Motors Liquidation Company
filed October 21, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.11  
      
  Letter Agreement regarding Equity Registration Rights Agreement, dated October 21, 2010, among General Motors Company, the United States Department of Treasury, Canada GEN
Investment Corporation, the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust and Motors Liquidation Company, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.43 to Amendment No. 5 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-168919) of General Motors
Company filed November 3, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.12  
      
  Master Disposition Agreement among Delphi Corporation, GM Components Holdings, LLC, General Motors Company, Motors Liquidation Company (fka General Motors Corporation), DIP Holdco
3, LLC, and the other sellers and other buyers party thereto dated July 26, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed August 7, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.13  
      
  Investment Commitment Agreement by and among Silver Point Capital Fund, LP, Silver Point Capital Offshore Fund, Ltd., Elliott Associates, LP, DIP Holdco 3, LLC, and General Motors
Company dated July 26, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of General Motors Company filed August 7, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.14  
      
  Amended and Restated Global Settlement Agreement Between Delphi Corporation and General Motors Corporation, Dated September 12, 2008, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10(b) to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Motors Liquidation Company filed November 10, 2008  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.15  
      
  UAW Retiree Settlement Agreement, dated July 10, 2009, between General Motors Company and the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of
America (the UAW), with the UAW also entering into the agreement as the authorized representative of certain persons receiving retiree benefits pursuant to collectively bargained plans, programs and/or agreement between General Motors Company and
the UAW, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of General Motors Company filed April 7, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.16  
      
  Form of Compensation Statement, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of General Motors Company filed April 7, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference    
         319

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    

Exhibit       Number    
      
     Exhibit Name    

10.17  
      
  Summary of Employment Arrangement between General Motors Company and Daniel F. Akerson, incorporated herein by reference to Item 5.02 of the Current Report on Form 8-K of
General Motors Company filed September 10, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.18  
      
  Employment Agreement for Christopher P. Liddell, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of General Motors Company filed May 17,
2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.19  
      
  Summary of Consulting Arrangement between General Motors Company and Stephen J. Girsky, incorporated herein by reference to Item 1.01 of the Current Report on Form 8-K of General
Motors Company filed January 15, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.20  
      
  Summary of Employment Arrangement between General Motors Company and Stephen J. Girsky, incorporated herein by reference to Item 1.01 of the Current Report on Form 8-K of General
Motors Company filed March 5, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.21  
      
  Summary of Employment Arrangement between General Motors Company and Edward E. Whitacre, Jr., incorporated herein by reference to Item 5.02 of the Current Report on Form 8-K of
General Motors Company filed February 19, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.22  
      
  Summary of Fee Arrangement between General Motors Company and Edward E. Whitacre, Jr., incorporated herein by reference to Item 5.02 of the Current Report on Form 8-K of General
Motors Company filed September 10, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.23  
      
  General Motors Executive Retirement Plan, as amended August 2, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to Amendment No. 2 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File
No. 333-168919) of General Motors Company filed October 14, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.24  
      
  General Motors Company 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended December 22, 2010  
      
  Filed Herewith   

10.25  
      
  General Motors Company Salary Stock Plan, as amended October 5, 2010, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to Amendment No. 2 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File
No. 333-168919) of General Motors Company filed October 14, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.26  
      
  General Motors Company Short Term Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to Amendment No. 2 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-168919) of
General Motors Company filed October 14, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.27  
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Grant made to top 25 highly compensated employees under General Motors Company 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as Amended March 1, 2010, incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of General Motors Company filed April 7, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.28  
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Grant (Cash Settlement) made to top 25 highly compensated employees under General Motors Company 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as Amended March 1,
2010, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of General Motors Company filed April 7, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.29  
      
  Form of Restricted Stock Unit Grant made to certain executive officers, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.a to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q of Motors Liquidation
Company filed May 8, 2008  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.30  
      
  Form of General Motors Company 2010 Equity Grant Award Agreement  
      
  Filed Herewith   

10.31  
      
  Form of General Motors Company March 15, 2010 Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement, as amended December 31, 2010  
      
  Filed Herewith    
         320

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    

Exhibit       Number    
      
     Exhibit Name    

10.32  
      
  General Motors Company Vehicle Operations   Senior Management Vehicle Program (SMVP) Supplement, revised December 15, 2005, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(g) to
the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Motors Liquidation Company filed March 28, 2006  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.33   
      
  Amended and Restated United States Consumer Financing Services Agreement between GMAC LLC and General Motors Corporation dated May 22, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.34   
      
  Amended and Restated Master Services Agreement between GMAC LLC and General Motors Corporation dated May 22, 2009, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K/A of General Motors Company filed November 16, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.35  
      
  Agreement, dated as of October 22, 2001, between General Motors Corporation and General Motors Acceptance Corporation, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10 to the
Annual Report on Form 10-K of Motors Liquidation Company filed March 28, 2006  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.36  
      
  United States Consumer Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2006, between General Motors Corporation and GMAC LLC, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Current
Report on Form 8-K of Motors Liquidation Company filed November 30, 2006  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.37  
      
  Amended and Restated Warrant Agreement, dated as of October 16, 2009, between General Motors Company and U.S. Bank National Association, including Form of Warrant Certificate
attached as Exhibit D thereto, relating to warrants with a $30 original ($10 after stock split) exercise price and a July 10, 2016 expiration date, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of General Motors
Company filed April 7, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.38  
      
  Amended and Restated Warrant Agreement, dated as of October 16, 2009, between General Motors Company and U.S. Bank National Association, including Form of Warrant Certificate
attached as Exhibit D thereto, relating to warrants with a $55 original ($18.33 after stock split) exercise price and a July 10, 2019 expiration date, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of General
Motors Company filed April 7, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.39  
      
  Amended and Restated Warrant Agreement, dated as of October 16, 2009, between General Motors Company and U.S. Bank National Association, including Form of Warrant Certificate
attached as Exhibit D thereto, relating to warrants with a $126.92 original ($42.31 after stock split) exercise price and a December 31, 2015 expiration date, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.31 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K of
General Motors Company filed April 7, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.40  
      
  Amended and Restated Master Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated June 26, 2009, between General Motors Corporation, Saturn LLC, Saturn Distribution Corporation, Chevrolet-Saturn of
Harlem, Inc., and General Motors Company (fka NGMCO, Inc.), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Motors Liquidation Company filed July 2, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.41  
      
  First Amendment to Amended and Restated Master Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated June 30, 2009, between General Motors Corporation, Saturn LLC, Saturn Distribution Corporation,
Chevrolet-Saturn of Harlem, Inc., and General Motors Company (fka NGMCO, Inc.), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Motors Liquidation Company filed July 8, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference    
         321

Table of Contents  

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES    

Exhibit       Number    
      
     Exhibit Name    

10.42  
      
  Second Amendment to Amended and Restated Master Sale and Purchase Agreement, dated July 5, 2009, between General Motors Corporation, Saturn LLC, Saturn Distribution
Corporation, Chevrolet-Saturn of Harlem, Inc., and General Motors Company (fka NGMCO, Inc.), incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the Current Report on Form 8-K of Motors Liquidation Company filed July 8, 2009  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.43  
      
  Letter Agreement regarding Series A Purchase, dated October 27, 2010, between General Motors Company and the United States Department of the Treasury, incorporated herein by
reference to Item 10.42 to Amendment No. 4 to the Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 333-168919) of General Motors Company filed September 28, 2010  
      
  Incorporated by Reference   

10.44  
      
  Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2011, by and among General Motors Company, Evercore Trust Company, N.A., as trustee of the General Motors Special Hourly-Rate
Employees Pension Trust, and Evercore Trust Company, N.A., as trustee of the General Motors Special Salaried Employees Pension Trust  
      
  Filed Herewith   

10.45  
      
  Stockholders Agreement, dated as of January 13, 2011, by and among General Motors Company, Evercore Trust Company, N.A., as trustee of the General Motors Special Hourly-Rate
Employees Pension Trust, and Evercore Trust Company, N.A., as trustee of the General Motors Special Salaried Employees Pension Trust  
      
  Filed Herewith   

12  
      
  Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges for the Year Ended December 31, 2010, the Periods July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 and January 1, 2009 through July 9, 2009
and for the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006  
      
  Filed Herewith   

21  
      
  Subsidiaries of the Registrant as of December 31, 2010  
      
  Filed Herewith   

24  
      
  Power of Attorney for Directors of General Motors Company  
      
  Filed Herewith   

31.1  
      
  Section 302 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer  
      
  Filed Herewith   

31.2  
      
  Section 302 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer  
      
  Filed Herewith   

32.1  
      
  Certification of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
      
  Filed Herewith   

32.2  
      
  Certification of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
      
  Filed Herewith   

99.1  
      
  Consolidated Financial Statements of Ally Financial Inc. (fka GMAC Inc.) and subsidiaries at December 31, 2010 and 2009 and for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 2010  
      
  Filed Herewith   

99.2  
      
  Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Executive Privileges and Compensation Certificate  
      
  Filed Herewith        

Certain confidential portions have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidential treatment, which has been separately filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission.        *  *  *  *  *  *  *   
         322

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this
report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.       

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY   

(Registrant)   

Date: March 1, 2011  

By:  
     
    /s/    DANIEL F.
AKERSON            

Daniel F. Akerson   

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer       Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on this 1st day of March 2011 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities indicated, including a majority of the directors.       

Signature            

Title             

/s/    DANIEL F. AKERSON     (Daniel F. Akerson)   
      
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   

/s/    CHRISTOPHER P. LIDDELL  
  (Christopher P. Liddell)   
      
  Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer   

/s/    NICK S. CYPRUS     (Nick S. Cyprus)   
      
  Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer   

/s/    DAVID BONDERMAN     (David Bonderman)   
      
  Director   

/s/    ERROLL B. DAVIS, JR.     (Erroll B. Davis, Jr.)   
      
  Director   

/s/    STEPHEN J. GIRSKY     (Stephen J. Girsky)   
      
  Director   

/s/    E. NEVILLE ISDELL     (E. Neville Isdell)   
      
  Director   

/s/    ROBERT D. KREBS     (Robert D. Krebs)   
      
  Director   

/s/    PHILIP A. LASKAWY     (Philip A. Laskawy)   
      
  Director   

/s/    KATHRYN V. MARINELLO     (Kathryn V. Marinello)   
      
  Director   

/s/    PATRICIA F. RUSSO     (Patricia F. Russo)   
      
  Director   

/s/    CAROL M. STEPHENSON     (Carol M. Stephenson)   
      
  Director   

/s/    DR. CYNTHIA A. TELLES     (Dr. Cynthia A. Telles)   
      
  Director    
         323

Table of Contents  

    CONFIDENTIAL        GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES        SCHEDULE II   VALUATION
AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        (Dollars in millions)        
 
         324

<EX-10.24>
 2
 dex1024.htm
 GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY 2009 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN

General Motors Company 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.24        GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY 2009 LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN        As Amended
December 22, 2010        SECTION 1 .  Purpose.  The purpose of the General Motors Company 2009 Long-Term
Incentive Plan is to motivate and reward participating Employees toward the long-term success of the business by making them participants in that success. Capitalized terms used in the Plan shall have the definitions set forth in Section 11 of
the Plan.       SECTION 2 .  Administration.  The Plan shall be administered by the Committee. The Committee shall
have full discretionary power and authority, subject to such orders or resolutions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as may from time to time be adopted by the Board, to (i) select the Employees of the Company and its
Subsidiaries to whom Awards may be granted hereunder; (ii) determine the number of Shares to be covered by each Award granted hereunder; (iii) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances Awards may be settled in cash,
Shares or other property, or canceled, and (iv) interpret and administer the Plan and any Award Agreement, and establish such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan.
The Committee may delegate to an appropriate Executive Officer of the Company responsibility for determining, within the limits established by the Committee, individual Awards for Employees who are not Executive Committee members or Executive
Officers of the Company.      Terms of Awards granted to Employees subject to compliance with the provisions of the Interim Final
Rule and any determinations by the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation will be determined by the Committee and will be included in the Award Agreements for those Employees   
   SECTION 3. Shares Subject to the Plan.       (a) Subject to the provisions of Section 3(f) below, the aggregate number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted under this Plan shall not exceed 75,000,000 Shares. Shares subject to
awards granted under the General Motors Company Salary Stock Plan and the General Motors Company Short-Term Incentive Plan shall reduce the number of Shares with respect to which Awards may be granted under this Plan. Each share subject to a Stock
Option or Stock Appreciation Right will reduce the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan by one share, and each share subject to a Restricted Stock Unit or Stock Award will reduce the number of shares available for issuance by two
and one-half shares. Subject to the provisions of Section 3(f), for awards that are intended to constitute qualified performance based compensation under 162m, grants of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights in any calendar year may not cover
more than 1,000,000 shares and grants of RSUs or Stock Awards in any calendar year may not cover more than 250,000 shares.   
  (b) Awards granted under the Plan that are settled in cash will not count against the approved share reserve. Awards, other than
Substitute Awards, that are forfeited or otherwise terminate without the issuance of Shares will no longer be charged against the maximum share limitation and will again be available for future grants. These Shares will return to the available share
pool at the same ratio at which they were granted.   

(c) Shares withheld by or delivered to the Company to satisfy the exercise or conversion
price of an Award or in payment of taxes will not again be available for future grants.      (d) Substitute Awards will not reduce
the number of Shares authorized for grant hereunder.      (e) Any Shares delivered in settlement of Awards hereunder may consist,
in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued Shares, treasury Shares or Shares purchased in the open market or otherwise.   
  (f) In the event of any merger, reorganization, consolidation, re-capitalization, stock split or reverse stock split, stock dividend,
extraordinary cash dividend, or other change in corporate structure affecting the Company s Shares, the Committee shall make such adjustments in the aggregate number of Shares which may be delivered under this Plan and the number of Shares
subject to Awards granted under this Plan (provided the number of Shares subject to any Award shall always be a whole number), as may be determined to be appropriate by the Committee in order to prevent unintended enhancement or diminution of the
benefits or potential benefits intended to be conferred on Participants pursuant to Awards granted hereunder.       SECTION 4.
Eligibility.        (a)  Any Employee shall be eligible to be selected as a Participant.   
   (b) Conditions Precedent.  As a condition precedent to the vesting and settlement of any portion of an Award, Participants shall:
(i) continue to render services as an Employee (unless this condition is waived by the Committee), (ii) refrain from engaging in any activity which, in the opinion of the Committee, is in any manner inimical or in any way contrary to the
best interests of the Company, (iii) not for a period of 12 months following any voluntary termination of employment, directly or indirectly, knowingly induce any Employee or employee of an affiliate of the Company to leave their employment for
participation, directly or indirectly, with any existing or future business venture associated with such individual, and (iv) furnish to the Company such information with respect to the satisfaction of the foregoing conditions precedent as the
Committee shall reasonably request. Except as otherwise provided under paragraph 6(d)(i) below, the failure by any Participant to satisfy such conditions precedent shall result in the immediate cancellation of the unvested portion of any Award
previously made to such Participant and such Participant shall not be entitled to receive any consideration in respect of such cancellation.       SECTION 5 . The Committee may require a Participant to enter into such agreements as the Committee considers appropriate and in the best interests of the Company.   
   SECTION 6. Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Units.       (a)  Grant and Performance Conditions . The Committee may grant Restricted Stock Unit Awards or Stock Awards to Participants, from time to time. Such Awards shall be valued by reference to a
designated number of Shares. A Stock Award or RSU Award shall be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Section 6 and the terms set forth in the applicable Award Agreement. In the case of a discrepancy between the Plan and the
RSU Award Agreement, the terms of the RSU Award Agreement will control.   
         2   

(b)  Nonforfeitability . No portion of a Stock Award or RSU Award shall become
nonforfeitable or transferable, as applicable, prior to a date specified by the Committee in the Award Agreement except as set forth in Section 6(d). A Participant must remain continuously employed by the Company or a Subsidiary through the
nonforfeitability date specified in the Award Agreement except as set forth in Section 6(d). Awards shall be conditioned upon the achievement of Performance Conditions, if applicable, as specified in the Award Agreement.   
  (c)  Payment and Delivery . No RSU Award shall be paid or settled prior to the first applicable Settlement Date, except as provided
in Section 6(d)(i).      (d)  Termination of Employment . Except as set forth in this subsection, upon the termination
of a Participant s employment, any Award (or portion thereof) held by such Participant that has not become nonforfeitable in accordance with Section 6(b) at the time of such termination shall be forfeited.   
  (i) In the event that the Participant s employment terminates as a result of his or her death, a pro rata portion of
the Award held by such Participant shall be retained and become nonforfeitable. The retained portion shall be determined by multiplying the number of shares comprising or underlying the Award by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of
full and partial calendar months elapsed from the Proration Date to the date of death and the denominator of which is the number of months from the Grant Date to the date on which such Award would have become nonforfeitable in accordance with
Section 6(b). In no event will such fraction exceed 1.0. The retained portion of any RSU Award will be settled in the form provided in Section 6(e) and the Settlement Date for such Awards will occur as soon as practicable after the date of
death.      (ii) In the event of the Participant s Disability, all Awards (or portions thereof) held by such
Participant will be retained and any RSU awards will be subject to the payment and delivery provisions set forth in Section 6(c). The retained RSU Award (or portion thereof) will be settled in the form provided in Section 6(e).   
  (iii) In the case of any Award which is not a TARP Award, in the event that the Participant retires from the Company at
age 55 or older with ten or more years of service (or equivalent retirement eligibility in countries outside the United States) or for Awards granted after March 15, 2010 , retirement at age 55 or older with ten or more years of service (or
equivalent retirement eligibility in countries outside the United States) or age 62 or older, subject to other terms and conditions of the Plan, a pro rata portion of the Award held by such Participant shall be retained and become nonforfeitable.
The retained portion shall be determined by multiplying the number of shares comprising or underlying the Award by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full and partial calendar months elapsed from the Proration Date to the date of
retirement and the denominator of which is the number of months from the Grant Date to the date on which such Award would have become nonforfeitable in accordance with Section 6(b). In no event will such fraction exceed 1.0. Any retained RSU
Awards will be settled on the Settlement Date in the form provided in Section 6(e).   
         3   

(iv) In the case of any TARP Award, in the event that the Participant
retires from the Company at age 55 or older with ten or more years of service (or equivalent retirement eligibility in countries outside the United States) or for Awards granted after March 15, 2010 , the Participant retires at age 55 or older
with ten or more years of service (or equivalent retirement eligibility in countries outside the United States) or age 62 or older, and such Participant has remained continuously employed for two years from the Grant Date, subject to other terms and
conditions of the Plan, a prorated portion of the Award held by such Participant shall be retained and become nonforfeitable. The retained portion shall be determined by multiplying the number of shares comprising or underlying the Award by a
fraction, the numerator of which is the number of full and partial calendar months elapsed from the Proration Date to the date of retirement and the denominator of which is the number of months from the Grant Date to the date on which such Award
would have become nonforfeitable in accordance with Section 6(b). In no event will such fraction exceed 1.0. Any retained RSU Awards will be settled on the Settlement Date in the form provided in Section 6(e).   
  (v) Notwithstanding the above provisions, any Participant who retires or separates from the Company or a Subsidiary under
the terms of an approved separation agreement or program will not be entitled to retain any portion of an Award.      (e)  Form
of Settlement . Each RSU Award shall be settled on any applicable Settlement Date by delivery of Shares. If a Settlement Date for any RSU Award occurs prior to the date which is six months following the consummation of an underwritten public
offering of Shares, the Award shall be settled by the delivery of the Fair Market Value of Shares, in cash. Such delivery shall take place promptly after the applicable Settlement Date; provided, however, that such delivery shall be made in all
events not later than December 31 of the calendar year in which such Settlement Date occurs.      (f)  No Rights of a
Shareholder . No holder of any RSU Award shall have any rights to dividends or any other rights of a stockholder with respect to Shares subject to the Award prior to becoming the record owner of such Shares.   
  (g)  Leave of Absence . Notwithstanding Section 6(d), a qualifying leave of absence shall not constitute a termination of
employment. A Participant s absence or leave shall be deemed to be a qualifying leave of absence if approved by the Committee in its sole discretion.       SECTION 7 .  Stock Options and Stock Appreciation Rights       (a)
 Grant Price.  The Grant Price of any Option or SAR shall not be less than the Fair Market Value (and in no event less than the par value) of the Shares on the date the Option or SAR is granted, except in the case of Substitute Awards.
     (b)  ISO; Nonqualified Option.  Determination as to whether Options granted shall be  Incentive Stock Options 
( ISO s), Nonqualified Stock Options, and as to any restrictions   
         4   

which shall be placed on Options, shall be made by the Committee under such procedures as it may, from time to time, determine and each Option granted hereunder shall be identified as either an
ISO or a Nonqualified Stock Option at the time of grant.      (c)  Terms of Options or Stock Appreciation Rights . Options
and SARs granted under this Plan shall be subject to the following provisions, except as otherwise determined by the Committee:      (i) Vesting and Exercise. Except in the case of death or except as set forth in Section 7(c)(iii)(B) or as set forth in Section 9, no Option or SAR shall vest or become exercisable prior to the
first anniversary of the  Grant Date  (or such other date as may be established by the Committee or its delegate(s)); and after such date Options or SARs shall be exercisable only in accordance with the terms and conditions established at
the time of grant and reflected in the Award Agreement. Unless otherwise specified in the Award Agreement, beginning on the first anniversary of the Grant Date, Options or SARs will vest and become exercisable in one-third increments. Subject to
paragraph 7(c)(iii), each increment will first vest and become exercisable on the first, second and third anniversaries of the Grant Date, respectively. Upon becoming exercisable, the Option or SAR will remain exercisable until expiration, except as
set for in Section 7(c)(iii).      (ii) Term of Options or SARs. The normal expiration date of an Option or
SAR shall be determined at the time of grant, provided that each Option or SAR shall expire not more than ten years after the Grant Date.      (iii) Termination of Employment. Except as set forth in this subsection, upon the termination of a Participant s employment, any Award (or portion thereof) held by such Participant that has not
vested in accordance with Section 7(c)(i) at the time of such termination shall be forfeited      (A) If the
Employee quits employment with the Company or is terminated by the Company for inadequate job performance, or for willful misconduct harmful to the Company, all unvested and vested Options or SARs held by such Participant shall be forfeited as of
the date of such termination, or if earlier, as of the date that such grounds for termination by the Company first exist.      (B) If the Employee retires from the Company at age 55 or older with ten or more years of credited service (or for a Participant who is a tax resident of a location outside the United States at equivalent
normal retirement age in such country) or age 62 or older in the United States, subject to the other terms and conditions of the Plan, all Options or SARs will vest immediately, and will be exercisable until the expiration date of such Option.
Notwithstanding this provision, the Committee may from time to time determine in its discretion that holders of Options or SARs retiring from the Company during specified time periods under specified circumstances may vest in and retain some portion
of their Options or SARs granted in the year the retirement occurs.   
         5   

(C) If employment is terminated by reason of death, all Options shall
immediately vest and remain exercisable until the third anniversary of the date of death or, if earlier, the expiration date of such Option.      (D) If an employee becomes disabled, Options will continue to vest and become exercisable in accordance with the original terms of the grant while the Employee remains on the disability leave and, subject
to the other terms and conditions of the Plan, vested Options will remain exercisable for the full remaining term.      (E) If employment terminates for any reason other than as set forth above (including, for the avoidance of doubt, retirement not meeting the conditions set forth in Section 7(c)(iii)(B) or other
voluntary termination with the consent of the Company), subject to the other terms and conditions of the Plan, all vested Options will remain exercisable until the third anniversary of the date of termination of employment or, if earlier, the
expiration date of such Option.      (F) If employment terminates for any reason (other than death) prior to the
first anniversary of the date an Option is granted, except as provided in Section 7(c)(iii)(B) the Option shall be forfeited and terminate on the date of termination of employment.   
  (iv) Leave of Absence. Notwithstanding Section 7(c)(iii), a qualifying leave of absence shall not constitute a
termination of employment. A Participant s absence or leave shall be deemed to be a qualifying leave of absence if approved by the Committee in its sole discretion.   
  (v) Payment of Exercise Price. All Shares purchased upon exercise of any Option shall be paid for in full at the time of
purchase or adequate provision for such payment shall be made. Such payment shall be made (A) in cash, (B) through delivery or constructive delivery of Shares (provided that such Shares may be subject to such holding period or other
requirement as the Committee may impose, (C) a combination of cash and stock or (D) through a broker-assisted cashless exercise facility if established by the Company. Any Shares delivered as a result of an Option exercise shall be valued
at their Fair Market Value on the exercise date of the Option.       SECTION 8. Amendments, Termination and Recoupment.
      (a) The Board may amend, alter, suspend, discontinue or terminate the Plan or any portion thereof at any time; provided,
however; that no such amendment, alteration, suspension, discontinuation or termination shall be made without (i) stockholder approval if such approval is necessary to comply with the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or such other national
securities exchange as may be from time to time the principal trading market for Shares, and (ii) except as provided in Section 8(f), the consent of the affected Participant, if such action would materially impair the rights of such
Participant under any outstanding Award.   
         6   

(b) The Committee may delegate to another committee, as it may appoint, the authority to
take any action consistent with the terms of the Plan, either before or after an Award has been granted, which such other committee deems necessary or advisable to comply with any government laws or regulatory requirements of a foreign country,
including, but not limited to, modifying or amending the terms and conditions governing any Awards, or establishing any local country plans as sub-plans to this Plan. In addition, under all circumstances, the Committee may make non-substantive
administrative changes to the Plan so as to conform with or take advantage of governmental requirements, statutes or regulations.      (c) The Committee may amend the terms of any Award and any Award Agreement theretofore granted, prospectively or retroactively, but no such amendment shall materially impair the rights of any Participant
without his or her consent except as provided in Section 8(f).      (d) Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan to the
contrary, any Award made and any amount of cash or Shares delivered in settlement thereof to a Participant under this Plan is subject to being called for repayment to the Company in any situation where the Board of Directors or a Committee thereof
determines that the Company s Policy on Recoupment of Compensation requires such repayment, or that repayment is otherwise required by the rules of any national securities exchange on which the stock of the Company may be listed. The
determination regarding repayment under this provision shall be within the sole discretion of the Committee and shall be final and binding on the Participant and the Company.      (e) If any provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement is invalid or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, (i) such provision shall be modified or eliminated, but only to the extent necessary to
eliminate such invalidity or unenforceability and (ii) such invalidity, unenforceability, modification or elimination shall not affect the validity or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction and shall not affect the validity
or enforceability of any other provision of the Plan or any Award.      (f) Any Award hereunder that is or becomes a TARP Award is
intended to comply with applicable Treasury regulations under TARP and shall be interpreted and amended as necessary to comply with any interpretations or guidance of the Special Master or his successor. In the event that an Award hereunder becomes
a TARP Award, or is otherwise affected by any decision of the Special Master or his successor, the Company shall inform the affected Participant.       SECTION 9. General Provisions.       (a) An Award may not be sold,
exercised, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner except as may be expressly set forth in the Award Agreement.      (b) Neither the Award nor any benefits arising out of this Plan shall constitute part of a Participant s employment or service contract with the Company or any Subsidiary. The Awards under this Plan
are not intended to be treated as compensation for any purpose under any other Company plan.   
         7   

(c) No Employee shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and there is no
obligation for uniformity of treatment of Participants under the Plan.      (d) Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the
Plan shall be deemed to constitute an employment or service contract or confer or be deemed to confer on any Employee or Participant any right to continue in the employ or service of, or to continue any other relationship with the Company or any
Subsidiary or limit in any way the right of the Company or any Subsidiary to terminate an Employee s employment or a Participant s service at any time, with or without cause.   
  (e) All Shares delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award shall be subject to such stock-transfer orders and other restrictions as
the Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which the Shares are then listed, and any applicable federal or state securities law, any
instructions of the Special Master and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any certificates or other indicia of ownership of such Shares to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.   
  (f) No Award granted hereunder shall be construed as an offer to sell securities of the Company, and no such offer shall be outstanding,
unless and until the Committee in its sole discretion has determined that any such offer, if made, would comply with all applicable requirements of the U.S. federal securities laws and any other laws to which such offer, if made, would be subject.
     (g) The Company and its Subsidiaries shall be authorized to withhold from any Award granted or payment due under the Plan the
amount of withholding taxes due in respect of an Award or payment hereunder and to take such other action as may be necessary in the opinion of the Company or its Subsidiaries to satisfy all obligations for the payment of such taxes. The Committee
shall be authorized to establish procedures for election by Participants to satisfy such obligation for the payment of such taxes by delivery of or transfer of Shares to the Company (to the extent the Participant has owned the surrendered Shares for
more than six months if such a limitation is necessary to avoid a charge to the Company for financial reporting purposes), or by directing the Company to retain Shares (up to the minimum required tax withholding rate, to the extent such limitation
is necessary to avoid a charge to the Company for financial reporting purposes) otherwise deliverable in connection with the Award.      (h) Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Board from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements, subject to stockholder approval if such approval is required; and such arrangements
may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.      (i) The provisions of the Plan shall be construed,
regulated and administered according to the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to principles of conflicts of law, except to the extent superseded by any controlling Federal statute.   
         8   

(j) Awards may be granted to Participants who are foreign nationals or employed outside the
United States, or both, on such terms and conditions different from those applicable to Awards to Employees employed in the United States as may, in the judgment of the Committee, be necessary or desirable in order to recognize differences in local
law or tax policy; provided, however, that amendments deemed necessary under this Section 9(j) may not be made without stockholder approval or Participant approval, if such approval is required by Section 78. The Committee also may impose
conditions on the exercise or vesting of Awards in order to minimize the Company s obligation with respect to tax equalization for Employees on assignments outside their home country.   
  (k) If the Company shall have any unpaid claim against the Participant arising out of or in connection with the Participant s
employment with the Company, prior to settlement of an Award, such claim may be offset against Awards under this Plan (up to $5,000 per year) and upon settlement of any Award, such claim may be offset in total. Such claim may include, but is not
limited to, unpaid taxes or corporate business credit card charges.      (l) Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan, no Plan
elections, modifications or distributions will be allowed or implemented if they would cause the Participant to be subject to tax (including interest and penalties) under Section 409A of the Code. The settlement of Awards hereunder may be
delayed up to six months following a Participant s termination of employment if the Participant is a  specified employee  for purposes of Section 409A and such delay is necessary to avoid the imposition of tax (including interest
and penalties) under Section 409A.       SECTION 10. Term of Plan.  The Plan shall terminate on the day after the date
when all Awards hereunder have been settled in accordance with the terms of the Plan.       SECTION 11 .  Definitions.
 As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:      (a)  Award  shall mean any
Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Stock Award or award of Restricted Stock Units granted hereunder.      (b)  Award
Agreement  shall mean the written instrument evidencing the terms of an Award hereunder.      (c)  Board  shall
mean the Board of Directors of the Company.      (d)  Code  shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended
from time to time, and any successor thereto, and any reference to any section of the Code shall also include any successor provision thereto.      (e)  Committee  shall mean the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board, its named successor, or such other persons or committee to whom the Board has delegated any authority, as may be
appropriate.      (f)  Company  shall mean General Motors Company, a Delaware Company, or its successor.   
         9   

(g)  Disability  shall mean the Participant is unable to engage in any gainful
activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months.   
  (h)  Employee  shall mean any individual who is employed by the Company or any Subsidiary.   
  (i)  Exchange Act  shall mean the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934.   
  (j)  Executive Officer  shall mean any Participant required to provide periodic statements of beneficial ownership of Company
equity securities as an executive officer of the Company under Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act.      (k)  Fair Market
Value  shall mean the value of a Share, determined as follows: prior to the establishment of when-issued trading of the Shares on a national securities exchange, as determined by the Committee in its discretion; and after the establishment of
when-issued trading of the Shares on a national securities exchange, the average of the high and low trading (or when-issued trading) prices for the Shares as reported on such national securities exchange for the applicable date or, if no such
prices are reported for that date, the average of the high and low trading (or when-issued trading) prices on the immediately preceding date for which such prices were reported.   
  (l)  Grant Date  shall mean the grant date specified in the Award Agreement.   
  (m)  Grant Price  shall mean the average of the high and low trading price per Share on the Grant Date.   
  (n)  Incentive Stock Options  or  ISO  shall mean an Option granted hereunder that is intended to comply with the
provisions of Section 422 of the Code.      (o)  Nonqualified Option  shall mean an Option that is not an ISO.
     (p)  Options  or  Stock Options  shall mean any right granted to a Participant under the Plan pursuant to
and described in Section 7 allowing such Participant to purchase Shares at such price or prices and during such period or periods, as the Committee shall determine and shall include ISOs and Nonqualified Options.   
  (q)  Participant  shall mean an Employee who is selected by the Committee to receive an Award under the Plan   
  (r)  Plan  shall mean this General Motors Company 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended from time to time.   
  (s)  Performance Conditions  shall mean measures of the operational performance of the Company or other performance criteria
selected by the Committee, the degree of achievement of which will determine the portion of an Award that is earned by the Participant as specified in the Award Agreement. In creating these measures, the Committee may establish the
  
         10   

specific goals based upon or relating to one or more of the following business criteria: asset turnover, cash flow, contribution margin, cost objectives, cost reduction, earnings before interest
and taxes (EBIT), earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization (EBITDA), earnings per share, economic value added, free cash flow, increase in customer base, initial public offering, inventory turnover, liquidity, market share, net
income, net income margin, operating cash flow, operating profit margin, pre-tax income, productivity, profit margin, quality, return on assets, return on net assets, return on capital, return on equity, revenue, revenue growth, and/or warranty. The
business criteria may be expressed in absolute terms or relative to the performance of other companies or to an index.      (t)
 Proration Date  shall be a date established by the Committee at the time of grant of an Award and specified in the Award Agreement. If no such date is established, the Proration Date shall be the Grant Date.   
  (u)  Restricted Stock Unit  or  RSU  shall mean any unit granted pursuant to and described in Section 6.
     (v)  Settlement Date  shall mean the date on which the Award becomes nonforfeitable and payable in accordance with
the provisions of the Plan and the Award Agreement.      (w)  Shares  shall mean shares of the common stock of the
Company, $0.01 par value.      (x)  Special Master  shall mean the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive
Compensation, established by the United States Secretary of the Treasury under the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 or any other office or agency which succeeds to the powers thereof.   
  (y)  Stock Appreciation Right  shall mean an Award denominated in Shares that entitles the Participant within the exercise
period to receive a payment equal to the increase in value between the Grant Price and the fair market value of the underlying Shares at date of exercise.      (z)  Stock Award  shall mean an Award of shares hereunder which may be subject to such restrictions on transfer and/or forfeitability conditions as are specified in the applicable Award
Agreement.      (aa)  Subsidiary  shall mean (i) a company of which capital stock having ordinary voting power to
elect a majority of the board of directors of such company is owned, directly or indirectly, by the Company or (ii) any unincorporated entity in respect of which the Company can exercise, directly or indirectly, comparable control to that
described in clause (i).      (bb)  Substitute Award  shall mean an Award granted hereunder in assumption or replacement
of an award issued by a company acquired by the Company or with which the Company or its Subsidiary combines.   
         11   

(cc)  TARP Award  shall mean an Award hereunder that is at any time required to
comply with the requirements for  long-term restricted stock  set forth in Treasury Regulations Section 31 CFR 30.1 (Q-1) and as interpreted and applied by the Special Master.   
  (dd)  Unit  shall mean a Restricted Stock Unit or RSU.   
         12   

</EX-10.24>

<EX-10.30>
 3
 dex1030.htm
 FORM OF GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY 2010 EQUITY GRANT AWARD AGREEMENT

Form of General Motors Company 2010 Equity Grant Award Agreement 

Exhibit 10.30        Template 1       December 31, 2010   
   General Motors Company 2010 Equity Grant Award Agreement        2010 Short Term Incentive Equity   2010 Long Term Incentive Equity        Private
and GM Confidential       [ insert name of Participant ]      [ insert location (e.g., GM do Brasil) of Participant ]      Dear [ insert name ]
     This letter describes the details under which you are being granted a Stock Award under the General Motors Company ( GM ) 2009 Long-Term
Incentive Plan, as amended December 22, 2010 (the   Plan  ).      A copy of the Plan can be found on Execunet in MySocrates.
Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement have the meaning given in the Plan unless noted otherwise. In the event of any conflict between this Award Agreement and the Plan, the terms of this Award Agreement shall prevail.   
  The full terms of your Award are set out in this Award Agreement and the Plan.       Details of the Award        

Feature    
      
     Description     

Issuer   
      
    General Motors Company, a Delaware corporation    

Number of Shares Granted to You   
      
  [  insert number  ] Restricted Stock Share (  RSs  ) under the General Motors Company 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended December 22,
2010.   

Grant Date   
      
  December 31, 2010   

Proration Date   
      
  Not Applicable   

Payment   
      
  No amount is payable by you for the issuance of this Stock Award or in connection with the settlement of any Stock Award.   

Nonforfeitability   
      
  This Award is not subject to forfeiture.   

Performance Condition   
      
  Not applicable    

Settlement Conditions and Settlement Date(s):   
      
    Shares of GM Common Stock will be transferred to your account at Solium Capital on the Grant Date and will be restricted from sale or
transfer until the Settlement Date(s). The Stock Award is non-forfeitable during the restriction period.         The restrictions from sale or transfer of Shares underlying this Stock Award will lapse on the following Settlement Date(s) :  
      XXX shares delivered will become unrestricted December 31, 2011  
  XXX shares delivered will become unrestricted December 31, 2013    

Form of Payment   
      
  Shares of GM Common Stock credited to your account at Solium on the Grant Date will become unrestricted on the Settlement Date(s) above.   

Termination of Employment   
      
  Stock Awards will become unrestricted and transferrable on the scheduled Settlement Date(s)   

Important Information about TARP   
      
  The Corporation is subject to the requirements of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury thereunder. These
requirements are known as  TARP  and are interpreted by the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation. This Award may become subject to special requirements under TARP. If necessary, we have the right to change this
Award, or interpret its provisions, so as to make it comply with TARP and rulings by the Special Master thereunder. In general, TARP applies to Awards granted to or held by the 100 most highly compensated employees of the Corporation and its
Subsidiaries, and more stringent requirements apply to Awards granted to or held by the 25 most highly compensated employees. The determinations of these groups are made annually. If your Award is or becomes subject to TARP or to any rulings of the
Special Master, you will be informed.   

Certain Defined Terms   
      
  Certain terms used in this Award Agreement are defined in the Plan document. Some of these definitions are summarized below.    
   Additional Terms       The following
additional terms apply to this Stock Award, your participation in the Plan and the grant of this Stock Award to you. By accepting the Grant you irrevocably agree and acknowledge in favor of GM that:   

1.  
  to enable GM to issue you Stock Awards (and any Shares), and administer the Plan and any Award, you consent to the exchange and disclosure of your personal information,
including transmission of that information from your country of employment, residence or citizenship, to other countries;         

2.  
  the Plan is established voluntarily by GM, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, suspended or terminated by GM at any time, as provided in the Plan;

3.  
  the Award and your participation in the Plan is not offered in lieu of, or in substitution for, any payment of remuneration, severance payments, leave entitlements, or
any other compensation payable to you;     
         2   

4.  
  participation in the Plan is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to future participation in the Plan, Awards or benefits in lieu
of participation in the Plan, even if Awards are offered repeatedly;         

5.  
  Awards under, and your participation in, the Plan do not form part of your remuneration for the purposes of determining payments in lieu of notice of termination of
your employment of office, severance payments, leave entitlements, or any other compensation payable to you. No Award, payment, or other right or benefit, under the Plan will be taken into account in determining any benefits under any pension,
retirement, savings, profit-sharing, group insurance, welfare or benefit plan of any GM Subsidiary;         

6.  
  GM, any of GM s Subsidiaries, their respective affiliates, officers and employees make no representation concerning the financial benefit or taxation consequences
of any Award or participation in the Plan. You are strongly advised to seek your own professional legal and taxation advice concerning the impact of the Plan and your Award;     

7.  
  the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and the Shares may increase or decrease in value;     

8.  
  you will have no entitlement to compensation or damages as a result of any loss or diminution in value of Shares, RSUs or any other rights acquired contract; pursuant
to the Plan, including, without limitation, as a result of the termination of your employment by GM or any of its Subsidiaries for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of; and     

9.  
  you have read this Award Agreement and the Plan carefully and understand their terms.         Acceptance Offer       To accept this offer you will need to follow the link below and indicate
your acceptance of all the terms outlined in this Agreement and the Plan not later than January 31, 2011. In the United States, this Award will be taxable income for 2010 regardless of the timing of your acceptance. If you do not accept the
grant by that time, this offer will lapse and be incapable of acceptance (unless otherwise agreed to by GM).      Method of
Acknowledgement.      If you have any questions concerning this offer or the Plan you should refer to Execunet or Global Compensation (Chris
Tipton +1-313-665-3012).       

Yours sincerely,    
         3   

</EX-10.30>

<EX-10.31>
 4
 dex1031.htm
 FORM OF GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT GRANT AGREEMENT, AS AMENDED

Form of General Motors Company Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement, as amended 

Exhibit 10.31        Template 3       December 31, 2010   
   General Motors Company March 15, 2010 Restricted Stock Unit Grant    
   As Amended December 31, 2010        Private and GM Confidential       [ insert name of Participant ]   
  [ insert location (e.g., GM do Brasil) of Participant ]      Dear [ insert name ]      This letter amends the terms of your Award of Restricted Stock Units
granted March 15, 2010 under the General Motors Company ( GM ) 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended December 22, 2010 (the   Plan  ).      A copy of the Plan can be found on Execunet in MySocrates. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement have the meaning given in the Plan unless noted otherwise. In the event of any conflict between
this Award Agreement and the Plan, the terms of this Award Agreement shall prevail.      The full terms of your amended Award are set out in this
Award Agreement and the Plan.       Details of the Award        

Feature    
      
     Description     

Issuer   
      
    General Motors Company, a Delaware corporation    

Original Number of RSUs Granted to You   
      
  [  insert number  ] Restricted Stock Units (  RSUs  ) under the General Motors Company 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended March 1, 2010.   

Original Grant Date   
      
  March 15, 2010   

Amendment:   
      
   Effective December 31, 2010, the above Award has been amended by the Executive Compensation Committee of the General Motors Board of Directors to a Stock Award comprised of fully
vested Restricted Stock    

Restricted Stock Shares   
      
  [  insert number  ] Restricted Stock Shares granted under the General Motors Company 2009 Long-Term Incentive Plan as amended December 22, 2010.   

Payment   
      
  No amount is payable by you for the issuance of this Stock Award or in connection with the settlement of any Stock Award.   

Nonforfeitability   
      
  This grant is not subject to forfeiture.    

Performance Condition   
      
  Not applicable   

Settlement Conditions and Settlement Date(s):   
      
    Shares of GM Common Stock will be transferred to your Solium account effective December 31, 2010 and will be restricted from sale or
transfer until the Settlement Date(s) below. This Stock Award is non-forfeitable during the restriction period.         The restriction from sale and transfer will lapse on the following Settlement Date(s):      
  100% of the Stock Award will become unrestricted March 15, 2013    

Form of Payment   
      
  Shares of GM Common Stock credited to your account at Solium on the Grant Date will become unrestricted on the Settlement Date(s) above.   

Termination of Employment   
      
  Undelivered RSUs will be settled on the scheduled settlement date   

Important Information about TARP   
      
  The Corporation is subject to the requirements of the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009, and regulations issued by the U.S. Department of the Treasury thereunder. These
requirements are known as  TARP  and are interpreted by the Office of the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation. This Award may become subject to special requirements under TARP. If necessary, we have the right to change this
Award, or interpret its provisions, so as to make it comply with TARP and rulings by the Special Master thereunder. In general, TARP applies to Awards granted to or held by the 100 most highly compensated employees of the Corporation and its
Subsidiaries, and more stringent requirements apply to Awards granted to or held by the 25 most highly compensated employees. The determinations of these groups are made annually. If your Award is or becomes subject to TARP or to any rulings of the
Special Master, you will be informed.   

Certain Defined Terms   
      
  Certain terms used in this Award Agreement are defined in the Plan document. Some of these definitions are summarized below.    
   Additional Terms       The following
additional terms apply to the Award to you, your participation in the Plan and the grant of RSUs (and any Shares) or Stock Awards to you. By accepting the Grant you irrevocably agree and acknowledge in favor of GM that:   

1.  
  to enable GM to issue you RSUs (and any Shares), and administer the Plan and any Award, you consent to the exchange and disclosure of your personal information,
including transmission of that information from your country of employment, residence or citizenship, to other countries;         

2.  
  the Plan is established voluntarily by GM, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, suspended or terminated by GM at any time, as provided in the Plan;
    
         2   

3.  
  the Award and your participation in the Plan is not offered in lieu of, or in substitution for, any payment of remuneration, severance payments, leave entitlements, or
any other compensation payable to you;         

4.  
  participation in the Plan is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to future participation in the Plan, Awards or benefits in lieu
of participation in the Plan, even if Awards are offered repeatedly;         

5.  
  Awards under, and your participation in, the Plan do not form part of your remuneration for the purposes of determining payments in lieu of notice of termination of
your employment of office, severance payments, leave entitlements, or any other compensation payable to you. No Award, payment, or other right or benefit, under the Plan will be taken into account in determining any benefits under any pension,
retirement, savings, profit-sharing, group insurance, welfare or benefit plan of GM or any of its Subsidiaries;         

6.  
  GM, any of its Subsidiaries, their respective affiliates, officers and employees make no representation concerning the financial benefit or taxation consequences of any
Award or participation in the Plan. You are strongly advised to seek your own professional legal and taxation advice concerning the impact of the Plan and your Award;     

7.  
  the future value of the underlying Shares is unknown and cannot be predicted with certainty and the Shares may increase or decrease in value;     

8.  
  you will have no entitlement to compensation or damages as a result of any loss or diminution in value of Shares, RSUs or any other rights acquired pursuant to the
Plan, including, without limitation, as a result of the termination of your employment by GM or any of its Subsidiaries for any reason whatsoever and whether or not in breach of contract;     

9.  
  you have read this Award Agreement and the Plan carefully and understand their terms.         Acceptance Offer       To accept this offer you will need to follow the link below and indicate
your acceptance of all the terms outlined in this Agreement and the Plan not later than January 31, 2011. In the United States, this Award will be taxable income for 2010 regardless of the timing of your acceptance. If you do not accept the
grant by that time, this offer will lapse and be incapable of acceptance (unless otherwise agreed to by GM).      Method of
Acknowledgement.      If you have any questions concerning this offer or the Plan you should refer to Execunet or Global Compensation (Chris
Tipton +1-313-665-3012).       

Yours sincerely,    
         3   

</EX-10.31>

<EX-10.44>
 5
 dex1044.htm
 REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT

Registration Rights Agreement 

Exhibit 10.44        EXECUTION VERSION         REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT     
  This REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT (this   Agreement  ) is entered into as of January 13, 2011, by and among GENERAL
MOTORS COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the   Corporation  ), Evercore Trust Company, N.A. (  Evercore  ), as trustee of, and acting on behalf of, the GENERAL MOTORS SPECIAL HOURLY-RATE EMPLOYEES PENSION TRUST (the
  Hourly Plan Trust  ) established under the GENERAL MOTORS HOURLY-RATE EMPLOYEES PENSION PLAN (the   Hourly Pension Plan  ) for the account and on behalf of the Hourly Pension Plan, and Evercore, as trustee of, and
acting on behalf of, the GENERAL MOTORS SPECIAL SALARIED EMPLOYEES PENSION TRUST (individually, the   Salaried Plan Trust  , and, together with the Hourly Plan Trust, the   Trusts   ) established under the GENERAL
MOTORS RETIREMENT PROGRAM FOR SALARIED EMPLOYEES (the   Salaried Pension Plan   ) for the account and on behalf of the Salaried Pension Plan.      WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, the Corporation, the Hourly Plan Trust and the Salaried Plan Trust have executed that certain Contribution Agreement, dated as of the date
hereof, pursuant to which the Corporation is contributing (i) to the Hourly Plan Trust 40,404,041 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation (  Common Stock  ), and (ii) to the Salaried Plan Trust
20,202,020 shares of Common Stock (such shares of Common Stock contributed to the Trusts, the   Common Shares        WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, the Corporation, the Hourly Plan Trust and the Salaried Plan Trust have executed that certain Stockholders Agreement, dated as of the date
hereof, to govern the rights and obligations of the parties with respect to certain matters relating to the Corporation and each Trust s ownership and voting of the Common Shares; and   
  WHEREAS, the Corporation has agreed to provide the Hourly Plan Trust and the Salaried Plan Trust with registration rights with respect to
the Common Shares that are held by each of them and their permitted assigns, on the terms and conditions set forth herein.   
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements contained in this Agreement, and for other good and valuable
consideration, the value, receipt and sufficiency of which are acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:       ARTICLE 1
       DEFINITIONS        Section 1.1 Certain Defined Terms . As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the following meanings set forth below or in the sections set forth below:   
    Adverse Disclosure   means public disclosure of material non-public information that, in the Corporation s good
faith judgment, after consultation with independent outside counsel to the Corporation, (a) would be required to be made in any registration statement or report filed with the SEC by the Corporation so that such registration statement or report
would not be materially misleading; (b) would not be required to be made at such time but for the filing of such registration statement; and (c) the Corporation has a  bona fide  business purpose for not disclosing publicly.

Adverse Effect   shall have the meaning set forth in
 Section 2.1.6 .        Advice   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.7 .   
    Affiliate   means, with respect to any Person, any other Person who Controls, is Controlled by or is under common
Control with, such Person.        Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.   
    Co-Managers   shall have the meaning set forth in Section  2.1.4(a) .   
    Common Shares   shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.   
    Common Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.   
    Control   means the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the direction of management or policies of a Person,
whether through the ownership of voting securities, general partnership interests or management member interests, by contract or trust agreement, pursuant to a voting trust or otherwise.  Controlling  and  Controlled  have the
correlative meanings.        Corporation   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.   
    Corporation Shelf Registration   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.2.1 .   
    Demand Registration   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.1.1(a) .   
    Demand Request   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.1.1(a) .   
    ERISA   shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder.        Equity Registration Rights Agreement   means that certain Equity Registration Rights
Agreement, dated as of October 15, 2009, by and among the Corporation, the United States Department of the Treasury, Canada GEN Investment Corporation (formerly known as 7176384 Canada Inc.), the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust, Motors
Liquidation Company and, for limited purposes, General Motors LLC, as amended from time to time, including the supplemental Letter Agreement, dated October 21, 2010, among the Corporation, the United States Department of the Treasury, Canada
GEN Investment Corporation, the UAW Retiree Medical Benefits Trust and Motors Liquidation Company.   
    Evercore   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.   
    Exchange Act   means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
  
         2   

Excluded Registration   means a registration under the Securities Act of
(a) securities pursuant to one or more Demand Registrations pursuant to  Article 2  hereof, (b) securities registered on Form S-4 or S-8 or any similar successor forms, (c) securities convertible into or exercisable or
exchangeable for Common Stock and (d) securities registered on Form S-3 or any successor form covering solely securities issued under a dividend reinvestment program.        Existing Registrable Securities   means  Registrable Securities,  as defined in the Equity Registration Rights Agreement.   
    Existing Registrable Securities Holder   means  Holder,  as defined in the Equity Registration Rights
Agreement.        FINRA   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.5(a)(xvi) .   
    Governmental Authority   means any United States or non-United States federal, provincial, state or local government or
other political subdivision thereof, any entity, authority, agency or body exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of any such government or political subdivision, and any supranational organization of
sovereign states exercising such functions for such sovereign states.        Holder   means each of (a) the
Hourly Plan Trust, (b) the Salaried Plan Trust and (c) any direct or indirect transferee of any Holder who shall become a party to this Agreement in accordance with  Section 2.10 .   
    Hourly Pension Plan   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.   
    Hourly Plan Trust   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.   
    Indemnitee   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.9.1 .   
    Indemnitor   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.9.3(a) .   
    Initial Sale Time   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.9.1 .   
    Inspectors   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.5(a)(xii) .   
    Issuer Free Writing Prospectus   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.6 .   
    Lead Underwriters   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.1.4(a) .   
    Losses   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.9.1 .   
    Market Value   shall mean (a) with respect to shares of Common Stock, for so long as the Common Stock is listed for
trading on the NYSE, the closing price of the Common Stock on the NYSE on the trading day immediately preceding the date of the Demand Request or Transfer Notice, or (b) with respect to any other particular class or type of Registrable
Securities, or if the Common Stock is no longer listed for trading on the NYSE, (i) at any time securities of the same class or type as the applicable Registrable Securities are listed on a U.S. national securities
  
         3   

exchange, or at any time the Common Stock is listed for trading on a U.S. national securities exchange other than the NYSE, the closing price of such class or type of securities or the Common
Stock, as applicable, on the trading day immediately preceding the date of the Demand Request or Transfer Notice, or (ii) other than in the case of clause (a) or (b)(i), the estimated market value determined in good faith by the
Corporation based upon the advice of a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm retained by the Corporation (at the sole expense of the Corporation) for this purpose (which investment banking firm shall be reasonably acceptable to
the Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities covered by the Demand Request or Transfer Notice).        Material
Adverse Change   means (a) any general suspension of trading in, or limitation on prices for, securities on any national securities exchange or over-the-counter market in the United States of America; (b) the declaration of a
banking moratorium or any suspension of payments in respect of banks in the United States of America; (c) a material outbreak or escalation of armed hostilities or other international or national calamity (including an act of terrorism)
involving the United States of America or the declaration by the United States of a national emergency or war or a material adverse change in national or international financial, political or economic conditions; or (d) any material adverse
change in the business, assets or condition (financial or otherwise) of the Corporation and its subsidiaries, taken as a whole.   
    NI 71-101   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.9.6 .   
    NYSE   means the New York Stock Exchange.        Person   means any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association, trust, unincorporated organization, joint venture, limited liability company, Governmental Authority or other
entity.        Piggyback Offering   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.2.1 .   
    Records   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.5(a)(xii) .   
    register ,    registered   and   registration   refer to a registration effected by
preparing and filing a registration statement in compliance with the Securities Act, and the declaration or ordering of the effectiveness (or automatic effectiveness) of such registration statement.   
    Registrable Securities   means (a) the Common Shares and (b) any equity security issued in exchange for or
with respect to any Common Shares referred to in clauses (a) above by way of a stock dividend or stock split or in connection with a combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation or other reorganization or similar transaction,
or otherwise. As to any particular Registrable Securities, such securities shall cease to be Registrable Securities on the earliest of the date on which such securities: (i) have been registered under the Securities Act and disposed of in
accordance with a registration statement; (ii) have been sold pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision); (iii) are held by a Holder that may sell all such Registrable Securities held by it in a single day
pursuant to, and in accordance with, Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision); (iv) cease to be outstanding (whether as a result of exercise, redemption, repurchase, conversion or otherwise); or (v) are held by
any Person who is not a Holder. For purposes hereof,  on the basis of the number of   
         4   

securities,   on the basis of the number of Existing Registrable Securities  and  on the basis of the number of Registrable Securities  shall be determined assuming the
exercise in full of any warrants subject to the Equity Registration Rights Agreement.        Representatives  
means, with respect to any Person, any of such Person s officers, directors, employees, agents, attorneys, accountants, actuaries, consultants or financial advisors or any other Person acting on behalf of such Person.   
    Requesting Holders   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.1.1(a) .   
    Salaried Pension Plan   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.   
    Salaried Plan Trust   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.   
    SEC   means the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.   
    Securities Act   means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.   
    Shelf Registration   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.1.2(a) .   
    Suspension Notice   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.7 .   
    Take-Down   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.1.2(b) .   
    Transfer Notice   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 2.1.2(b) .   
   Trusts  shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.   
   Section 1.2 Terms Generally . The definitions in  Section 1.1  shall apply equally to both the singular and plural
forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words  include,   includes  and  including  shall be deemed to be
followed by the phrase  without limitation,  unless the context expressly provides otherwise. All references herein to Articles, Sections, paragraphs, subparagraphs or clauses shall be deemed references to Articles, Sections, paragraphs,
subparagraphs or clauses of this Agreement, unless the context requires otherwise. Unless otherwise specified, the words  this Agreement,   herein,   hereof,   hereto  and  hereunder  and other words
of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. The word  extent  in the phrase  to the extent  shall mean the degree to which a subject or other thing extends, and such
phrase shall not mean simply  if.  Unless expressly stated otherwise, any law defined or referred to herein means such law as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including by succession of comparable successor laws and
references to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein.   
         5   

ARTICLE 2        REGISTRATION RIGHTS        Section 2.1 Demand Registration.
       Section 2.1.1 Request for Registration.    
  (a) Subject to  Section 2.1.3 , any Holder or Holders of Registrable Securities shall have the right to require the Corporation
to file a registration statement under the Securities Act for a public offering of all or part of its or their Registrable Securities (a   Demand Registration  ) by delivering to the Corporation written notice stating that such right
is being exercised, naming, if applicable and to the extent known by such Holder or Holders, any other Holders whose Registrable Securities are to be included in such registration (collectively, the   Requesting Holders  ), specifying
the number and type of each such Holder s Registrable Securities to be included in such registration, specifying whether the Registrable Securities to be included by the Requesting Holder are all of the Registrable Securities then held by such
Requesting Holder and, subject to  Section 2.1.4  hereof, describing the intended method of distribution thereof (a   Demand Request  ). Subject to  Section 2.1.3 , after receipt of any Demand Request, the
Corporation shall comply with the applicable notice requirements set forth in  Section 2.1.5 .      (b) Subject to
 Section 2.1.3  and  Section 2.1.7 , the Corporation shall file the registration statement in respect of a Demand Registration as promptly as practicable and, in any event, (i) with respect to the filing of a Form S-3,
within forty-five (45) days and (ii) with respect to the filing of any other type of registration statement, within ninety (90) days after receiving a Demand Request, and shall use reasonable best efforts to cause the same to be
declared effective by the SEC as promptly as practicable after such filing.       Section 2.1.2 Shelf Registration;
Take-Downs.       (a) Subject to  Section 2.1.3 , with respect to any Demand Registration, at any time that the
Corporation is eligible to use Form S-3 or an automatic shelf registration statement (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) on Form S-3 (or any successor forms) with respect to the Registrable Securities, the Requesting Holders may
request that the Corporation (i) file a registration statement pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act (or any successor rule) to effect such Demand Registration, or (ii) at any time that a registration statement pursuant to
Rule 415 covering Registrable Securities is effective, register additional Registrable Securities of the Requesting Holders pursuant to such shelf registration statement to effect such Demand Registration (in either case, a   Shelf
Registration  ). For the avoidance of doubt, a Shelf Registration shall be deemed a  Demand Registration  for all purposes under this Agreement, except as otherwise provided in  Section 2.1.3 .   
  (b) Subject to  Section 2.1.3 , any Holder or Holders with Registrable Securities registered pursuant to a Shelf Registration
that intend to effect an underwritten offering with respect to such Registrable Securities shall deliver a notice to the Corporation at least thirty five (35) days prior to the commencement of such underwritten offering, stating (i) that
such Holder or Holders intend to effect an underwritten offering of all or part of the Registrable Securities included by such Holder or Holders in the Shelf Registration, (ii) if applicable and to the extent
  
         6   

known by such Holder, any other Holders whose Registrable Securities are to be included in the underwritten offering, (iii) the number and type of each such Holder s Registrable
Securities to be included in such underwritten offering, (iv) whether the Registrable Securities to be included by such Holder are all of the Registrable Securities then held by such Holder, and (v) the proposed timetable for such
underwritten offering. Any Holder with Registrable Securities registered pursuant to a Shelf Registration that intends to effect any non-underwritten registered sale or transfer of such Registrable Securities pursuant to the Shelf Registration (each
a   Take-Down  ) shall deliver a notice to the Corporation at least five (5) days prior to effecting such non-underwritten sale or transfer, stating (i) that such Holder intends to effect a non-underwritten sale or transfer
of all or part of the Registrable Securities included by such Holder in the Shelf Registration, (ii) the number and type of the Registrable Securities to be included in such sale or transfer and (iii) the proposed manner and timetable for
such sale or transfer. A notice provided by any Requesting Holder pursuant to the first two sentences of this  Section 2.1.2(b)  is referred to herein as a   Transfer Notice .  Subject to  Section 2.1.3 , after
receipt of any Transfer Notice, the Corporation shall comply with the applicable notice requirements set forth in  Section 2.1.5 . For the avoidance of doubt, a Take-Down shall not be deemed to be a Demand Registration and shall not be
subject to  Section 2.1.3 .      (c) Subject to  Section 2.1.3 , the Corporation shall use its reasonable best
efforts to keep any Shelf Registration requested pursuant to  Section 2.1.2(a)  continuously effective under the Securities Act in order to permit the prospectus forming a part thereof to be usable by the Holders until the earlier of
(i) the date as of which all Registrable Securities have been sold pursuant to the Shelf Registration or another registration statement filed under the Securities Act (but in no event prior to the applicable period referred to in
Section 4(3) of the Securities Act and Rule 174 thereunder) and (ii) the date as of which all of such Requesting Holders are permitted to sell their Registrable Securities without registration pursuant to Rule 144 under the
Securities Act without volume limitation or other restrictions on transfer thereunder.      (d) The Corporation shall, from time
to time, supplement and amend the Shelf Registration if required by the Securities Act, including the rules, regulations or instructions applicable to the registration form used by the Corporation for such Shelf Registration.   
  (e) Whether or not any Holder submits a Demand Request for a Demand Registration, at any time on or after July 1, 2011, the
Corporation shall have the right to file a registration statement under the Securities Act (or file a prospectus supplement to a prospectus included in an existing registration statement or file an amendment to an existing registration statement)
for a public offering pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act (or any successor rule) of all or any part of the Registrable Securities held by any Holder or Holders. Any such registration shall be deemed a  Shelf Registration  for
all purposes under this Agreement. For the avoidance of doubt, any such registration may be registered on Form S-3 or an automatic shelf registration statement (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) on Form S-3 (or any successor forms) so
long as the Corporation is then eligible to use such form.       Section 2.1.3 Limitations.    
  (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, a Holder shall not be permitted to submit a Demand Request, or submit a Transfer
Notice for an underwritten offering, or otherwise effect any such Demand Registration or underwritten offering, prior to November 18, 2011.   
         7   

(b) A Holder shall not be permitted to submit a Demand Request, or submit a Transfer Notice
for an underwritten offering, or otherwise effect any such Demand Registration or underwritten offering unless such Demand Request or Transfer Notice for an underwritten offering is for either (i) a number of Registrable Securities having a
Market Value equal to or exceeding $750,000,000 in the aggregate or (ii) all of the Registrable Securities then held by the Requesting Holder.      (c) A Holder shall not be permitted to submit a Demand Request, or submit a Transfer Notice for an underwritten offering, or otherwise effect any such Demand Registration or underwritten offering, within
one hundred eighty (180) days after (i) the effective date of the registration statement (other than a registration statement pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act (or any successor rule)) for any underwritten offering of equity
securities by the Corporation (whether for the account of the Corporation or otherwise) or any of the Existing Registrable Securities Holders or (ii) the completion of any underwritten offering of equity securities by the Corporation (whether
for the account of the Corporation or otherwise) or any of the Existing Registrable Securities Holders under a registration statement pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act (or any successor rule)).   
  (d) The Corporation shall not be required to effect more than one (1) Demand Registration (which shall include for this purpose any
underwritten offering pursuant to a Shelf Registration but shall exclude a Shelf Registration) in the aggregate during any consecutive twelve (12) month period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for the avoidance of doubt, the limitation set forth
in this  Section 2.1.3  shall not apply to any non-underwritten Take-Down by any Holder under a Shelf Registration.   
   Section 2.1.4 Demand Registrations for Underwritten Offerings.    
  (a) At the request of the Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities submitting a Demand Request or Transfer Notice for an
underwritten offering of Registrable Securities, the Corporation shall direct the applicable underwriter to conduct such offering in the form of a  firm commitment.  With respect to any such underwritten offering, (i) the Holders of a
majority of the Registrable Securities to be registered or included in such underwritten offering shall select the investment banking firm or firms to lead the underwritten offering (the   Lead Underwriters    provided  that
such Lead Underwriters shall be reasonably acceptable to the Corporation, and (ii) the Corporation shall select the other investment banking firms, if any, to co-manage such underwritten offering (the   Co-Managers  
 provided  that such Co-Managers shall be reasonably acceptable to the Holders of a majority of the Registrable Securities to be registered or included in such underwritten offering.   
  (b) If a Demand Registration is for an underwritten offering or a transfer pursuant to a Shelf Registration involves an underwritten
offering, no Holder may participate in any such underwritten offering unless such Holder (i) agrees to sell such Holder s Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting arrangements approved by the Corporation;
 provided  that such arrangements are subject to the consent of the Holders of a majority of the Registrable   
         8   

Securities to be registered or included in such underwritten offering, and (ii) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other
documents reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements;  provided ,  however , that no such Holder shall be required to make any representations or warranties in connection with any such underwritten offering other
than representations and warranties as to (A) such Holder s ownership of its Registrable Securities to be transferred free and clear of all liens, claims, and encumbrances, (B) such Holder s power and authority to effect such
transfer, and (C) such matters pertaining to compliance with securities laws as may be reasonably requested;  provided ,  further ,  however , that any obligation of each such Holder to indemnify the Lead Underwriters and any
Co-Managers pursuant to any such underwriting arrangements shall (i) only be with respect to information it provides to the Corporation in writing for use in such underwritten offering, (ii) be several, not joint and several, and
(iii) be limited to the net amount received by such Holder from the sale of its Registrable Securities pursuant to such offering.       Section 2.1.5 Rights of Nonrequesting Holders and the Corporation . Subject to  Section 2.1.3 , after receipt of any Demand Request or any Transfer Notice relating to an underwritten
offering pursuant to a Shelf Registration, the Corporation shall promptly (but in any event within five (5) days) give written notice of (i) such proposed Demand Registration to all other Holders or (ii) such Transfer Notice to such
other Holders whose securities are covered by such Shelf Registration, who shall have the right, exercisable by written notice to the Corporation within five (5) days of their receipt of the Corporation s notice, to elect to include in
such Demand Registration or underwritten offering such portion of their Registrable Securities as they may request.   All Holders requesting to have their Registrable Securities included in a Demand Registration or underwritten offering shall
be deemed to be  Requesting Holders  for purposes of this  Section 2.1 . For the avoidance of doubt, subject to  Section 2.1.6 , the Corporation may register in any Demand Registration any equity securities of the
Corporation.       Section 2.1.6 Priority on Demand Registrations . With respect to any underwritten offering based on
a Demand Registration (including an underwritten offering pursuant to a Shelf Registration), if the Lead Underwriters (after consultation with the Co-Managers) advise that the inclusion of the securities proposed to be included in such registration
would adversely affect the price, timing or distribution of the offering or otherwise adversely affect its success (an   Adverse Effect  ), the Corporation shall include in such underwritten offering (a) first, the Registrable
Securities requested to be included therein by the Requesting Holders and any Existing Registrable Securities requested to be included therein by Existing Registrable Securities Holders in accordance with Section 2.2.1 of the Equity
Registration Rights Agreement, pro rata among the holders of such securities on the basis of the number of securities owned by each such holder, and (b) second, any other securities requested to be included in such underwritten offering,
including securities to be sold for the account of the Corporation;  provided ,  however , that if more than 50% of the Registrable Securities of any Holder subject to a Demand Request or Transfer Notice for an underwritten offering are
excluded pursuant to the terms of this  Section 2.1.6  from the applicable Demand Registration or underwritten offering pursuant to a Shelf Registration, the offering shall not be deemed to constitute a Demand Registration for the purposes
of  Section 2.1.3 .       Section 2.1.7 Deferral of Filing; Suspension of Use . The Corporation may defer the
filing (but not the preparation) or the effectiveness, or suspend the use, of any registration   
         9   

statement required by or filed pursuant to  Section 2.1 , at any time if (a) the Corporation determines, in its sole discretion, that such action or use (or proposed action or use)
would require the Corporation to make an Adverse Disclosure, or (b) prior to receiving the Demand Request or Transfer Notice, as applicable, the board of directors of the Corporation had determined to effect a registered underwritten public
offering of Corporation equity securities or Corporation securities convertible into or exchangeable for Corporation equity securities for the Corporation s account and the Corporation had taken substantial steps (such as selecting a managing
underwriter for such offering) and is proceeding with reasonable diligence to effect such offering;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation shall not exercise its rights to deferral or suspension pursuant to this
 Section 2.1.7 , and shall not so effect any such deferral or suspension, for more than a total of one hundred eighty (180) days (which need not be consecutive) in any consecutive twelve (12) month period. In making any such
determination to defer the filing or effectiveness, or suspend the use, of a registration statement required by  Section 2.1 , the Corporation shall not be required to consult with or obtain the consent of any Holder or any investment
manager therefor, and any such determination shall be in the sole discretion of the Corporation, and neither the Holders nor any investment manager for any Holder shall be responsible or have any liability therefor. The Corporation shall promptly
notify the Holders of any deferral or suspension pursuant to this  Section 2.1.7  and the Corporation agrees that it will terminate any such deferral or suspension as promptly as reasonably practicable and will promptly notify each Holder
in writing of the termination of any such deferral or suspension.       Section 2.1.8 Withdrawal from Demand
Registration . Any Holder may withdraw its Registrable Securities from a Demand Registration or underwritten offering at any time (prior to a sale thereunder) by providing the Corporation with written notice. Upon receipt of such written notice,
the Corporation shall continue all efforts to secure registration or effect the underwritten offering of the remaining Registrable Securities not requested to be withdrawn, unless the remaining Registrable Securities would not meet the requirements
of  Section 2.1.3(b) , in which case, the Corporation may in its sole discretion cease all efforts to proceed with registration or the underwritten offering. If the Corporation ceases all efforts to secure registration or effect the
underwritten offering pursuant to this  Section 2.1.8 , then such registration or underwritten offering shall nonetheless be deemed an effective or completed Demand Registration or completed underwritten offering pursuant to a Shelf
Registration for all purposes hereunder unless (i) the withdrawal is made following the occurrence of a Material Adverse Change not known to the Requesting Holders at the time of the Demand Request or Transfer Notice or (ii) the Requesting
Holders pay or reimburse the Corporation for all out-of-pocket fees and expenses reasonably incurred in connection with such Demand Registration or underwritten offering;  provided  that if, after a Demand Registration has become effective or
an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities has been commenced, it is interfered with by any stop order, injunction or other order or requirement of the SEC or other governmental agency or court, it shall be deemed not to have been effected
and shall not count as a Demand Registration or underwritten offering for the purposes of  Section 2.1.3 .   
   Section 2.1.9 Competing Demand Registrations . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, in the event that any Demand
Request or Transfer Notice for an underwritten offering of Registrable Securities submitted by a Holder under this Agreement (or the effectuation of the related Demand Registration or underwritten offering in accordance with this Agreement) is in
conflict with or otherwise inconsistent with any Demand Request (as defined in   
         10   

the Equity Registration Rights Agreement) or Transfer Notice (as defined in the Equity Registration Rights Agreement) submitted by any Existing Registrable Securities Holder for an underwritten
offering of Existing Registrable Securities (or the effectuation of the related registration or underwritten offering in accordance with the Equity Registration Rights Agreement), then the Demand Request or Transfer Notice for an underwritten
offering of Registrable Securities submitted by a Holder under this Agreement (and the related registration or underwritten offering in accordance with this Agreement) shall be treated for all purposes hereunder (including for purposes of
determining priority for inclusion) as a Piggyback Offering initiated by an Existing Registrable Securities Holder.   
   Section 2.2 Piggyback Offerings.        Section 2.2.1 Right to Piggyback . Each time the Corporation proposes to offer any of its equity securities in a registered underwritten offering (other than pursuant to an Excluded
Registration) under the Securities Act (whether for the account of the Corporation or the account of any equity holder of the Corporation other than a Holder) (a   Piggyback Offering  ), the Corporation shall give prompt written
notice to each Holder of Registrable Securities (which notice shall be given not less than ten (10) days prior to (i) the offering in the case of an underwritten offering pursuant to Rule 415 under the Securities Act (or any successor
rule) (a   Corporation Shelf Registration  ) or (ii) the anticipated filing date of the Corporation s registration statement in a registration other than a Corporation Shelf Registration), which notice shall offer each such
Holder the opportunity to include any or all of its Registrable Securities in such underwritten offering, subject to the limitations contained in  Section 2.2.2  hereof. Each Holder who desires to have its Registrable Securities included
in such underwritten offering shall so advise the Corporation in writing (stating the number and type of Registrable Securities desired to be registered or included) within three (3) days after the date of such notice from the Corporation. Any
Holder shall have the right to withdraw such Holder s request for inclusion of such Holder s Registrable Securities in any underwritten offering pursuant to this Section 2.2.1 by giving written notice to the Corporation of such
withdrawal. Subject to  Section 2.2.2  below, the Corporation shall include in such underwritten offering all such Registrable Securities so requested to be included therein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation may at any time
withdraw or cease proceeding with any such offering if it shall at the same time withdraw or cease proceeding with the offering of all other equity securities originally proposed to be included in such offering.   
   Section 2.2.2 Priority on Piggyback Offerings.       (a) If a Piggyback Offering was initiated by the Corporation, and if the managing underwriter advises that the inclusion of the securities proposed to be included in such Piggyback Offering would cause an
Adverse Effect, the Corporation shall include in such Piggyback Offering (i) first, the securities the Corporation proposes to sell, (ii) second, any Existing Registrable Securities requested to be included in such Piggyback Offering by
Existing Registrable Securities Holders in accordance with Section 2.2.1 of the Equity Registration Rights Agreement, pro rata among such Existing Registrable Securities Holders on the basis of the number of Existing Registrable Securities
owned by each such Existing Registrable Securities Holder, and (iii) third, any Registrable Securities requested to be included in such Piggyback Offering by the Holders and any other securities requested to be included in such Piggyback
  
         11   

Offering, pro rata among the holders of such securities (including the Registrable Securities of the Holders) on the basis of the number of such securities owned by each such holder. If as a
result of the provisions of this  Section 2.2.2(a) , any Holder shall not be entitled to include all Registrable Securities in such Piggyback Offering that such Holder has requested to be so included, such Holder may withdraw its request
to include its Registrable Securities in such Piggyback Offering.      (b) If a Piggyback Offering was initiated by an Existing
Registrable Securities Holder, and if the managing underwriter advises that the inclusion of the securities proposed to be included in such Piggyback Offering would cause an Adverse Effect, the Corporation shall include in such Piggyback Offering
(i) first, the Existing Registrable Securities requested to be included in such Piggyback Offering by Existing Registrable Securities Holders in accordance with Section 2.1 of the Equity Registration Rights Agreement, pro rata among such
Existing Registrable Securities Holders on the basis of the number of Existing Registrable Securities owned by each such Existing Registrable Securities Holder, and (ii) second, any Registrable Securities requested to be included in such
Piggyback Offering by the Holders and any other securities requested to be included in such Piggyback Offering, including securities to be sold for the account of the Corporation, pro rata among the holders of such securities (including the
Registrable Securities of the Holders) and the Corporation on the basis of the number of such securities owned by each such holder and the number of securities requested to be included in such Piggyback Offering by the Corporation. If as a result of
the provisions of this  Section 2.2.2(b) , any Holder shall not be entitled to include all Registrable Securities in such Piggyback Offering that such Holder has requested to be so included, such Holder may withdraw its request to include
its Registrable Securities in such Piggyback Offering      (c) If a Piggyback Offering was initiated by a security holder of the
Corporation (other than a Holder or an Existing Registrable Securities Holder), and if the managing underwriter advises that the inclusion of the securities proposed to be included in such Piggyback Offering would cause an Adverse Effect, the
Corporation shall include in such Piggyback Offering (i) first, the securities requested to be included therein by the security holders requesting such Piggyback Offering and the Existing Registrable Securities requested to be included in such
Piggyback Offering by Existing Registrable Securities Holders in accordance with Section 2.2.1 of the Equity Registration Rights Agreement, pro rata among the holders of such securities on the basis of the number of securities owned by each
such holder, and (ii) second, any Registrable Securities requested to be included in such Piggyback Offering by the Holders and any other securities requested to be included in such Piggyback Offering, including securities to be sold for the
account of the Corporation, pro rata among the holders of such securities (including the Registrable Securities of the Holders) and the Corporation on the basis of the number of such securities owned by each such holder and the number of securities
requested to be included in such Piggyback Offering by the Corporation. If as a result of the provisions of this  Section 2.2.2(c)  any Holder shall not be entitled to include all Registrable Securities in such Piggyback Offering that such
Holder has requested to be so included, such Holder may withdraw such Holder s request to include Registrable Securities in such Piggyback Offering.      (d) No Holder may participate in a Piggyback Offering unless such Holder (i) agrees to sell such Holder s Registrable Securities on the basis provided in any underwriting
  
         12   

arrangements approved by the Corporation and (ii) completes and executes all questionnaires, powers of attorney, indemnities, underwriting agreements and other documents, each in customary
form and reasonably satisfactory to the Holders, reasonably required under the terms of such underwriting arrangements;  provided ,  however , that no such Holder shall be required to make any representations or warranties in connection
with any such registration other than representations and warranties as to (A) such Holder s ownership of its Registrable Securities to be sold or transferred free and clear of all liens, claims and encumbrances, (B) such
Holder s power and authority to effect such transfer, and (C) such matters pertaining to compliance with securities laws as may be reasonably requested;  provided ,  further ,  however , that any obligation of each such
Holder to indemnify the underwriters pursuant to any such underwriting arrangements shall (x) only be with respect to information it provides to the Corporation in writing for use in such underwritten offering, (y) be several, not joint
and several, and (z) be limited to the net amount received by such Holder from the sale of its Registrable Securities pursuant to such registration.       Section 2.2.3 Selection of Underwriters . The Corporation, or the Existing Registrable Securities Holders to the extent contemplated by the Equity Registration Rights Agreement, shall select
the investment banking firm or firms to manage the Piggyback Offering.       Section 2.2.4  No registration of
Registrable Securities effected pursuant to this  Section 2.2  shall be deemed to have been effected pursuant to  Section 2.1.1  or  Section 2.1.2  or shall relieve the Corporation of its obligations under
 Section 2.1.1  or  Section 2.1.2 .       Section 2.3 SEC Form S-3 . Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary herein, the Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause Demand Registrations to be registered on Form S-3 or an automatic shelf registration statement (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) on Form S-3 (or any
successor forms) once the Corporation becomes eligible to use such form, and if the Corporation is not then eligible under the Securities Act to use such form, Demand Registrations shall be registered on the form for which the Corporation then
qualifies. After becoming eligible to use Form S-3 or an automatic shelf registration statement (as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act) on Form S-3, the Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts to remain so eligible.   
   Section 2.4 Holdback Agreements.       (a) The Corporation shall not effect any public sale or distribution of its equity securities or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for its equity securities, except in each
case as part of the offering pursuant to a Demand Registration, during the sixty (60) day period (or such lesser period as the Lead Underwriters or managing underwriters may permit) beginning on the effective date of any registration statement
in connection with an underwritten Demand Registration (other than a Shelf Registration), except for (i) sales or distributions pursuant to registrations on Form S-4 or Form S-8 or any successor form, (ii) the issuance of shares of Common
Stock upon the conversion, exercise or exchange, by the holder thereof, of options, warrants or other securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock pursuant to the terms of such options, warrants or other securities,
(iii) sales or distributions pursuant to the terms of any other agreement to issue shares of Common Stock (or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Common   
         13   

Stock) in effect on the date of the Demand Request, including any such agreement in connection with any previously disclosed acquisition, merger, consolidation or other business combination and
(iv) the issuance of shares of Common Stock in connection with transfers to dividend reinvestment plans or to employee benefit plans in order to enable any such employee benefit plan to fulfill its funding obligations in the ordinary course.
     (b) If any Holders of Registrable Securities provide a Transfer Notice relating to an underwritten offering of Registrable
Securities registered pursuant to a Shelf Registration, the Corporation shall not effect any public sale or distribution of its equity securities or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for its equity securities, except in
each case as part of such underwritten offering, during the sixty (60) day period (or such lesser period as the Lead Underwriters or managing underwriters may permit) beginning on the pricing date for such underwritten offering, except for
(i) sales or distributions pursuant to registrations on Form S-4 or Form S-8 or any successor form, (ii) the issuance of shares of Common Stock upon the conversion, exercise or exchange, by the holder thereof, of options, warrants or other
securities convertible into or exercisable or exchangeable for Common Stock pursuant to the terms of such options, warrants or other securities, (iii) sales or distributions pursuant to the terms of any other agreement to issue shares of Common
Stock (or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Common Stock) in effect on the date of the Transfer Notice, including any such agreement in connection with any previously disclosed acquisition, merger, consolidation or
other business combination and (iv) the issuance of shares of Common Stock in connection with transfers to dividend reinvestment plans or to employee benefit plans in order to enable any such employee benefit plan to fulfill its funding
obligations in the ordinary course.      (c) Each Holder agrees, in the event of an underwritten offering of equity securities by
the Corporation (whether for the account of the Corporation or otherwise), not to offer, sell, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of any Common Stock or any securities convertible into or exchangeable or exercisable for Common Stock, including
any sale pursuant to Rule 144 under the Securities Act (except as part of such underwritten offering), during the sixty (60) day period (or such lesser period in each case as the Lead Underwriters or managing underwriters may permit) beginning
on the effective date of the registration statement for such underwritten offering (or, in the case of an offering pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement pursuant to Rule 415, the pricing date for such underwritten offering);
 provided ,  however , that (i) any applicable period shall terminate on such earlier date as the Corporation gives notice to the Holders that the Corporation declines to proceed with any such offering and (ii) the sum of all
holdback periods applicable to the Holders shall not exceed one hundred twenty (120) days (which need not be consecutive) in any given twelve (12) month period.       Section 2.5 Registration Procedures.       (a) If and whenever the
Corporation is required to effect the registration of any Registrable Securities pursuant to this Agreement, subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts to effect the registration and
the sale, as applicable, of such Registrable Securities in accordance with the intended method of disposition thereof, and pursuant thereto the Corporation shall as expeditiously as possible:   
  (i) prepare and file with the SEC, pursuant to  Section 2.1  with respect to any Demand Registration, a registration statement
on any appropriate form under the Securities Act with respect to such Registrable Securities and use its reasonable best efforts to cause such registration statement to become effective as promptly as practicable;  provided  that as far in
advance as practicable before filing such registration statement or any amendment thereto, the Corporation shall furnish to the selling Holders copies of reasonably complete drafts of all such documents prepared to be filed (including exhibits), and
any such selling Holder shall have the opportunity to object to any information contained therein and the Corporation shall consider in good faith any corrections reasonably requested by such selling Holder with respect to such information prior to
filing any such registration statement or amendment;  provided ,  further , that the Corporation shall not file any such registration statement, and any amendment thereto, to which a Holder shall reasonably object in writing on a timely
basis, unless in the Corporation s judgment such filing is necessary to comply with applicable law;   
         14   

(ii) except in the case of a Shelf Registration, prepare and file with the SEC such
amendments, post-effective amendments and supplements to such registration statement and the prospectus used in connection therewith as may be necessary to keep such registration statement effective for a period of not less than one hundred eighty
(180) days (or such lesser period as is necessary for the underwriters in an underwritten offering to sell unsold allotments) and comply with the provisions of the Securities Act with respect to the disposition of all securities covered by such
registration statement during such period in accordance with the intended methods of disposition by the selling Holders thereof set forth in such registration statement;      (iii) in the case of a Shelf Registration, comply with the provisions of  Section 2.1.2(c)  and  Section 2.1.2(d) ;   
  (iv) furnish to each selling Holder of Registrable Securities and the underwriters of the securities being registered, without charge,
such number of copies of such registration statement, each amendment and supplement thereto, the prospectus included in such registration statement (including each preliminary prospectus), any documents incorporated by reference therein and such
other documents as such selling Holders or underwriters may reasonably request in order to facilitate the disposition of the Registrable Securities owned by such selling Holders or the sale of such securities by such underwriters (it being
understood that, subject to  Section 2.1.7 ,  Section 2.4(c) ,  Section 2.6  and  Section 2.7  and the requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws, the Corporation consents to the
use of the prospectus and any amendment or supplement thereto by each selling Holder and the underwriters in connection with the offering and sale of the Registrable Securities covered by the registration statement of which such prospectus,
amendment or supplement is a part);      (v) use its reasonable best efforts to register or qualify such Registrable Securities
under such other securities or  blue sky  laws of such jurisdictions as the Lead Underwriters or managing underwriters reasonably request (or, in the event the registration statement does not relate to an underwritten offering, as the
selling Holders of a majority of such Registrable Securities being offered may reasonably request); use its reasonable best efforts to keep each such registration or qualification (or exemption therefrom) effective during the period in which such
registration statement is required to be kept effective; and do any and all other acts   
         15   

and things which may be reasonably necessary or advisable to enable each selling Holder to consummate the disposition of the Registrable Securities owned by such selling Holder in such
jurisdictions;  provided ,  however , that the Corporation shall not be required to (A) qualify generally to do business in any jurisdiction where it would not otherwise be required to qualify but for this subparagraph,
(B) consent to general service of process in any such jurisdiction or (C) take any action that would subject it to taxation in respect of doing business in any jurisdiction in which it is not otherwise so subject;   
  (vi) promptly notify each selling Holder and each underwriter and (if requested by any such Person) confirm such notice in writing
(A) when a prospectus or any prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment has been filed and, with respect to a registration statement or any post-effective amendment, when the same has become effective, (B) of the issuance by any
state securities or other regulatory authority of any order suspending the qualification or exemption from qualification of any of the Registrable Securities under state securities or  blue sky  laws or the initiation, or threatened
initiation, of any proceedings for that purpose, or (C) of the happening of any event which makes any statement made in a registration statement or related prospectus untrue or which requires the making of any changes in such registration
statement, prospectus or documents so that they shall not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein not misleading, and, as promptly
as practicable thereafter, prepare and file with the SEC and furnish a supplement or amendment to such prospectus so that, as thereafter deliverable to the purchasers of such Registrable Securities, such prospectus shall not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit a material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading;      (vii) permit any selling Holder that might reasonably be deemed to be an underwriter or a Controlling Person of the Corporation to participate in the preparation of such registration or comparable
statement and to require the insertion therein of material, furnished to the Corporation in writing, which in the reasonable judgment of such Holder and its counsel should be included;   
  (viii) make available members of the management of the Corporation or the applicable Corporation subsidiaries for reasonable assistance
in the selling efforts relating to any offering of Registrable Securities covered by a registration statement filed pursuant to this Agreement, to the extent customary for such offering (including, without limitation, to the extent customary, senior
management attendance at due diligence meetings with prospective investors or underwriters and their counsel and road shows);  provided ,  however , that management need only be made available for one such offering for any Holder in any
twelve (12) month period;      (ix) otherwise use its reasonable best efforts to comply with all applicable rules and
regulations of the SEC, including the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, and make generally available to the Corporation s security holders an earnings statement satisfying the provisions
of Section 11(a) of the Securities Act no later than thirty (30) days after the end of the twelve (12) month period beginning with the first day of the Corporation s first fiscal quarter commencing after the effective date of a
registration statement, which earnings statement shall cover said twelve (12) month period, and   
         16   

which requirement shall be deemed to be satisfied if the Corporation timely files complete and accurate information on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K under the Exchange Act and otherwise complies with
Rule 158 under the Securities Act;      (x) if requested by the Lead Underwriters, managing underwriters or any selling Holder,
promptly incorporate in a prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment such information as the Lead Underwriters, managing underwriters or any selling Holder reasonably requests to be included therein, including, with respect to the Registrable
Securities being sold by the selling Holders, the purchase price being paid therefor by the underwriters and with respect to any other terms of the underwritten offering of the Registrable Securities to be sold in such offering, and promptly make
all required filings of such prospectus supplement or post-effective amendment;      (xi) as promptly as practicable after filing
with the SEC of any document which is incorporated by reference into a registration statement (in the form in which it was incorporated), deliver a copy of each such document to each selling Holder;   
  (xii) promptly make available for inspection by any selling Holder, any underwriter participating in any disposition pursuant to any
registration statement, and any attorney, accountant or other agent or Representative retained by any such selling Holder or underwriter (collectively, the   Inspectors  ), all financial and other records and pertinent corporate
documents (collectively, the   Records  ) and properties of the Corporation, as shall be reasonably necessary to enable them to exercise their due diligence responsibility, and cause the Corporation s officers, directors and
employees to supply all information reasonably requested by any such Inspector in connection with such registration statement;  provided ,  however , that, unless the disclosure of such Records is necessary to avoid or correct a
misstatement or omission in the registration statement or the release of such Records is ordered pursuant to a subpoena or other order from a court of competent jurisdiction, the Corporation shall not be required to provide any information under
this subparagraph (xiii) if (A) the Corporation believes, after consultation with counsel for the Corporation, that to do so would cause the Corporation to forfeit an attorney-client privilege that was applicable to such information or
(B) either (l) the Corporation has requested and been granted from the SEC confidential treatment of such information contained in any filing with the SEC or documents provided supplementally or otherwise or (2) the Corporation
reasonably determines in good faith that such Records are confidential and so notifies the Inspectors in writing, unless prior to furnishing any such information with respect to clause (B) such selling Holder of Registrable Securities
requesting such information agrees to enter into a confidentiality agreement in a form acceptable to the Corporation; and  provided ,  further , that each selling Holder of Registrable Securities agrees that it shall, upon learning that
disclosure of such Records is sought in a court of competent jurisdiction, give notice to the Corporation and allow the Corporation, at its expense, to undertake appropriate action and to prevent disclosure of the Records deemed confidential;
     (xiii) furnish to each selling Holder and underwriter a signed counterpart of (A) an opinion or opinions of counsel to
the Corporation (which may be in-house counsel)  provided  that such counsel is reasonably acceptable to such Holders and the underwriter, and (B) a comfort letter or comfort letters from the Corporation s independent public
accountants, each in customary form and covering such matters of the type customarily covered by opinions or comfort letters, as the case may be, as the selling Holders, Lead Underwriters or managing underwriters reasonably requests;   
         17   

(xiv) cause the Registrable Securities included in any registration to be listed on
each securities exchange, if any, on which similar securities issued by the Corporation are then listed;      (xv) provide a
transfer agent and registrar for all Registrable Securities registered hereunder and provide a CUSIP number for all such Registrable Securities, in each case not later than the effective date of such registration;   
  (xvi) cooperate with each selling Holder and each underwriter participating in the disposition of such Registrable Securities and their
respective counsel in connection with any filings required to be made with the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (  FINRA        (xvii) during the period when the prospectus is required to be delivered under the Securities Act, promptly file all documents required to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Sections 13(a), 13(c), 14 or
15(d) of the Exchange Act;      (xviii) notify each selling Holder of Registrable Securities promptly of any request by the SEC
for the amending or supplementing of such registration statement or prospectus or for additional information;      (xix) subject
to  Section 2.1.4(b)  and  Section 2.2.2(d) , enter into such agreements (including underwriting agreements) as are customary in connection with an underwritten registration; and   
  (xx) advise each selling Holder of such Registrable Securities, promptly after it receives notice or obtains knowledge thereof, of the
issuance of any stop order by the SEC suspending the effectiveness of such registration statement or the initiation or threatening of any proceeding for such purpose and promptly use its reasonable best efforts to prevent the issuance of any stop
order or to obtain its withdrawal at the earliest possible moment if such stop order should be issued.      (b) The selling
Holders shall reasonably cooperate with the Corporation in the preparation and filing of any registration statement under the Securities Act pursuant to this Agreement and provide the Corporation with all information reasonably necessary to complete
such preparation as the Corporation may, from time to time, reasonably request in writing, and the Corporation may exclude from such registration the Registrable Securities of any selling Holder (or not proceed with such registration) if such
selling Holder unreasonably fails to furnish such information within a reasonable time after receiving such request. Promptly following any sale or other transfer of any Registrable Securities, each Holder shall notify the Corporation in writing
thereof, which notice shall specify the amount and type of securities involved, the date of the sale or transfer and whether the sale or transfer was effected under a registration statement or otherwise.   
  (c) Each of the parties shall treat all notices of proposed transfers and registrations, and all information relating to any blackout
periods under  Section 2.1.7  received   
         18   

from another party with the strictest confidence (and in accordance with the terms of any applicable confidentiality agreement among the Corporation and the Holder) and shall not disseminate such
information.       Section 2.6 Free Writing Prospectuses . Each of the Holders agrees that, unless it obtains the prior
consent of the Corporation, it shall not make any offer relating to the Registrable Securities that would constitute a  free writing prospectus,  as defined in Rule 405 under the Securities Act, required to be filed with the SEC. The
Corporation represents that any  issuer free writing prospectus,  as defined in Rule 433 under the Securities Act, prepared by or on behalf of the Corporation (an   Issuer Free Writing Prospectus  ) shall not include any
information that conflicts with the information contained in a registration statement or prospectus and that any Issuer Free Writing Prospectus, when taken together with the information in the registration statement and the prospectus, shall not
include any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact necessary in order to make the statements therein, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading.   
   Section 2.7 Suspension of Dispositions . Each Holder agrees that upon receipt of any notice (a   Suspension
Notice  ) from the Corporation of the happening of any event of the kind described in  Section 2.5(a)(vi)(B)  or  (C)  or  Section 2.5(a)(xx)  such Holder shall forthwith discontinue disposition of Registrable
Securities until such Holder s receipt of the copies of the supplemented or amended prospectus, or until it is advised in writing (the   Advice  ) by the Corporation that the use of the prospectus may be resumed, and has received
copies of any additional or supplemental filings which are incorporated by reference in the prospectus, and, if so directed by the Corporation, such Holder shall deliver to the Corporation all copies, other than permanent file copies then in such
Holder s possession, of the prospectus covering such Registrable Securities current at the time of receipt of such notice. In the event the Corporation shall give any such notice, the time period regarding the effectiveness of registration
statements set forth in  Section 2.5(a)(ii)  hereof, if applicable, shall be extended by the number of days during the period from and including the date of the giving of the Suspension Notice to and including the date when each seller of
Registrable Securities covered by such registration statement shall have received the copies of the supplemented or amended prospectus or the Advice. The Corporation shall use its reasonable best efforts and take such actions as are reasonably
necessary to render the Advice as promptly as practicable.       Section 2.8 Registration Expenses . The Corporation
shall pay all reasonable fees and expenses incident to the performance of or compliance with its obligations under this  Article 2 , including (a) all registration and filing fees, including fees and expenses (i) with respect to
filings required to be made with all applicable securities exchanges and/or FINRA and (ii) of compliance with securities or  blue sky  laws including any fees and disbursements of counsel for the underwriter(s) in connection with
 blue sky  qualifications of the Registrable Securities pursuant to  Section 2.5(a)(v) , (b) printing expenses, including expenses of printing certificates for Registrable Securities in a form eligible for deposit with The
Depository Trust Company and of printing prospectuses if the printing of prospectuses is requested by the Lead Underwriters or managing underwriter(s), if any, or by the Holder, (c) messenger, telephone and delivery expenses of the Corporation,
(d) fees and disbursements of counsel for the Corporation, (e) expenses of the Corporation incurred in connection with any  road show  or other marketing efforts, (f) fees and disbursements of all independent certified
public accountants (including,   
         19   

without limitation, the expenses of any special audit and  cold comfort  letters required by or incident to this Agreement) and any other Persons, including special experts, retained by
the Corporation, and (g) fees up to $250,000 plus reasonable disbursements of one legal counsel for the Requesting Holders in connection with each registration or offering of their Registrable Securities or sale (including, for the avoidance of
doubt, a Take-Down) of their Registrable Securities under a Shelf Registration but only if such registration, offering or sale either is effected or, pursuant to  Section 2.7 , is postponed. For the avoidance of doubt, the Corporation
shall not be required to pay any, and each Holder shall pay its own, underwriting discounts and commissions and transfer taxes, if any, relating to the sale or disposition of Registrable Securities pursuant to any registration statement, or any
other expenses of any Holder. In addition, the Corporation shall bear all of its internal expenses (including all salaries and expenses of its officers and employees performing legal or accounting duties), the expense of any annual audit, the fees
and expenses incurred in connection with the listing of the securities to be registered on any securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which similar securities issued by the Corporation are then listed and the fees and expenses of
any Person, including special experts, retained by the Corporation.       Section 2.9 Indemnification.    
   Section 2.9.1 Indemnification by the Corporation . The Corporation agrees to indemnify and hold harmless, to the fullest
extent permitted by law, each Holder, the trustees of any Holder, the investment manager or managers acting on behalf of any Holder with respect to the Registrable Securities, Persons, if any, who Control any of them, and each of their respective
Representatives (each, an   Indemnitee  ), from and against any and all losses, penalties, judgments, suits, costs, claims, damages, liabilities and expenses, joint or several (including reasonable costs of investigation and legal
expenses) (  Losses  ) arising out of or caused by any untrue statement or alleged untrue statement of a material fact contained in any registration statement described herein or any related prospectus or Issuer Free Writing
Prospectus relating to the Registrable Securities (as amended or supplemented if the Corporation shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto), or arising out of or caused by any omission or alleged omission to state therein a material
fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein in the case of the prospectus, in light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading, except insofar as such Losses arise out of or are caused by any such
untrue statement or omission included or omitted in conformity with information furnished to the Corporation in writing by such Indemnitee or any Person acting on behalf of such Indemnitee expressly for use therein;  provided ,  however ,
that the foregoing indemnity agreement with respect to any preliminary prospectuses or Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses shall not inure to the benefit of such Indemnitee if the Person asserting any Losses against such Indemnitee purchased
Registrable Securities and (a) prior to the time of sale of the Registrable Securities to such Person (the   Initial Sale Time  ) the Corporation shall have notified the respective Holder that the preliminary prospectus or Issuer
Free Writing Prospectus (as it existed prior to the Initial Sale Time) contains an untrue statement of material fact or omits to state therein a material fact required to be stated therein in order to make the statements therein not misleading,
(b) such untrue statement or omission of a material fact was corrected in a preliminary prospectus or, where permitted by law, Issuer Free Writing Prospectus and such corrected preliminary prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus was
provided to such Holder a reasonable amount of time in advance of the Initial Sale Time such that the corrected preliminary prospectus or   
         20   

Issuer Free Writing Prospectus could have been provided to such Person prior to the Initial Sale Time, (c) such corrected preliminary prospectus or Issuer Free Writing Prospectus (excluding
any document then incorporated or deemed incorporated therein by reference) was not conveyed to such Person at or prior to the Initial Sale Time and (d) such Losses would not have occurred had the corrected preliminary prospectus or Issuer Free
Writing Prospectus (excluding any document then incorporated or deemed incorporated therein by reference) been conveyed to such Person as provided for in clause (c) above. This indemnity shall be in addition to any liability the Corporation may
otherwise have under this Agreement or otherwise. Such indemnity shall remain in full force and effect regardless of any investigation made by or on behalf of any Holder or any indemnified party and shall survive the transfer of Registrable
Securities by any Holder.       Section 2.9.2 Indemnification by the Holders . Each Holder agrees, to the fullest extent
permitted under applicable law severally and not jointly, to indemnify and hold harmless each of the Corporation, its directors, officers, employees and agents, and each Person, if any, who Controls the Corporation, to the same extent as the
foregoing indemnity from the Corporation, but only with respect to Losses arising out of or caused by an untrue statement or omission included or omitted in conformity with information furnished in writing by or on behalf of the respective Holder
expressly for use in any registration statement described herein or any related prospectus relating to the Registrable Securities (as amended or supplemented if the Corporation shall have furnished any amendments or supplements thereto). No claim
against the assets of any Holder shall be created by this  Section 2.9.2 , except as and to the extent permitted by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Holder shall be liable to the Corporation or any such Person for any
amount in excess of the net amount received by the Holder from the sale of Registrable Securities in the offering giving rise to such liability.       Section 2.9.3 Indemnification Procedures.       (a) In case any claim is
asserted or any proceeding (including any governmental investigation) shall be instituted where indemnity may be sought by an Indemnitee pursuant to any of the preceding paragraphs of this  Section 2.9 , such Indemnitee shall promptly
notify in writing the Person against whom such indemnity may be sought (the   Indemnitor    provided ,  however , that the omission so to notify the Indemnitor shall not relieve the Indemnitor of any liability which it may
have to such Indemnitee except to the extent that the Indemnitor was prejudiced by such failure to notify. The Indemnitor, upon request of the Indemnitee, shall retain counsel reasonably satisfactory to the Indemnitee to represent (subject to the
following sentences of this  Section 2.9.3(a) ) the Indemnitee and any others the Indemnitor may designate in such proceeding and shall pay the fees and disbursements of such counsel related to such proceeding. In any such proceeding, any
Indemnitee shall have the right to retain its own counsel, but the fees and expenses of such counsel shall be at the expense of such Indemnitee unless (a) the Indemnitor and the Indemnitee shall have mutually agreed to the retention of such
counsel, (b) the Indemnitor fails to take reasonable steps necessary to defend diligently any claim within ten calendar days after receiving written notice from the Indemnitee that the Indemnitee believes the Indemnitor has failed to take such
steps, or (c) the named parties to any such proceeding (including any impleaded parties) include both the Indemnitor and the Indemnitee and representation of both parties by the same counsel would be inappropriate due to actual or potential
differing interests or legal defenses between them and, in all such cases, the Indemnitor shall only be responsible for the reasonable fees and expenses of such counsel. It is understood   
         21   

that the Indemnitor shall not, in connection with any proceeding or related proceedings in the same jurisdiction, be liable for the reasonable fees and expenses of more than one separate law firm
(in addition to any local counsel) for all such Indemnitees not having actual or potential differing interests or legal defenses among them, and that all such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed as they are incurred. The Indemnitor shall not be
liable for any settlement of any proceeding affected without its written consent.      (b) If the indemnification provided for in
this  Section 2.9  is unavailable to an Indemnitee in respect of any Losses referred to herein, then the Indemnitor, in lieu of indemnifying such Indemnitee hereunder, shall contribute to the amount paid or payable by such Indemnitee as a
result of such Losses in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault of the Indemnitor and the Indemnitee and Persons acting on behalf of or Controlling the Indemnitor or the Indemnitee in connection with the statements or
omissions or violations which resulted in such Losses, as well as any other relevant equitable considerations. If the indemnification described in  Section 2.9.1  or  Section 2.9.2  is unavailable to an Indemnitee, the relative
fault of the Corporation, any Holder and Persons acting on behalf of or Controlling the Corporation or any such Holder shall be determined by reference to, among other things, whether the untrue or alleged untrue statement of a material fact or the
omission or alleged omission to state a material fact relates to information supplied by the Corporation, a Holder or by Persons acting on behalf of the Corporation or any Holder and the parties  relative intent, knowledge, access to
information and opportunity to correct or prevent such statement or omission. The Indemnitor shall not be required to contribute pursuant to this  Section 2.9.3(b)  if there has been a settlement of any proceeding affected without its
written consent. No claim against the assets of any Holder shall be created by this  Section 2.9.3(b) , except as and to the extent permitted by applicable law. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Holder shall be required to make a
contribution in excess of the net amount received by such Holder from the sale of Registrable Securities in the offering giving rise to such liability.       Section 2.9.4 Survival.  The indemnification contained in this  Section 2.9  shall remain operative and in full force and effect regardless of any termination of this Agreement.
      Section 2.9.5 Special Indemnification Exception in Piggyback Offerings.  Each Holder hereby acknowledges that, as
contemplated by the Equity Registration Rights Agreement, neither the Government Holders, the VEBA nor the Debtor (each as defined in the Equity Registration Rights Agreement) shall be required to indemnify any Indemnitee in connection with any
underwritten offering contemplated hereunder in which such Government Holder, the VEBA or the Debtor participates pursuant to the Equity Registration Rights Agreement.       Section 2.9.6 Canadian Offerings.       (a) In connection with any
prospectus offerings and sales of Registrable Securities in Canada, references in this  Section 2.9  to any  untrue statement  or  untrue statement of a material fact  in any  prospectus  or  related
prospectus  (or phrases to similar effect) shall be deemed to cover any  misrepresentation  in any  Canadian Prospectus  (as defined below). For the avoidance of doubt, (i) the Corporation and each of the Holders shall
be entitled to the applicable rights to, and shall be subject to the applicable obligations in respect of, indemnification and contribution set forth in this  Section 2.9  in connection with sales of
  
         22   

Registrable Securities pursuant to any Canadian Prospectus and (ii) the proviso in  Section 2.9.1  that begins with the words  provided, however, that the foregoing indemnity
agreement with respect to any preliminary prospectuses or Issuer Free Writing Prospectuses   shall not apply with respect to a misrepresentation in a Canadian Prospectus.   
  (b) As used in this  Section 2.9.6 , the term  misrepresentation  has the meaning attributed to such term in the
applicable securities legislation of each province and territory of Canada, and the term  Canadian Prospectus  means a prospectus filed by the Corporation under the applicable securities laws of any province or territory of Canada
qualifying the distribution of Registrable Securities and includes a preliminary prospectus, a preliminary MJDS prospectus (as defined in National Instrument 71-101    The Multijurisdictional Disclosure System  (  NI
71-101  )), a final prospectus, an MJDS prospectus (as defined in NI 71-101), any amendment or supplement thereto and any related materials, as applicable.       Section 2.10 Transfer of Registration Rights . The rights and obligations of a Holder under this Agreement may be assigned to any transferee or assignee that directly acquires Registrable
Securities from such Holder, but only if (a) the respective Holder agrees in writing with the transferee or assignee to assign such rights, and a copy of such agreement is furnished to the Corporation concurrent with such transfer or
assignment, and (b) concurrent with such transfer or assignment, such transferee or assignee furnishes the Corporation with written notice of the name and address of such transferee or assignee and the securities with respect to which such
registration rights are being transferred or assigned, and the transferee or assignee agrees in writing with the Corporation to be bound by all the provisions and obligations contained herein as a Holder hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any
transferee or assignee who becomes bound by the provisions of this Agreement pursuant to the first sentence of this  Section 2.10  shall have all rights and obligations as a  Holder  hereunder.   
   Section 2.11 Rule 144 . For so long as the Corporation has a class of equity securities registered under Section 12(b) or
Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act, or is otherwise required to report under Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act, the Corporation shall file the reports required to be filed by it under the Securities Act and the Exchange Act and the rules
and regulations adopted by the SEC thereunder and shall take such further action as the Holders may reasonably request, all to the extent required from time to time to enable the Holders to sell Common Stock without registration under the Securities
Act within the limitation of the exemptions provided by (a) Rule 144 under the Securities Act, as such rule may be amended from time to time, or (b) any similar rule or regulation hereafter adopted by the SEC. The Corporation shall
promptly upon the request of any Holder furnish to such Holder evidence of the number of shares of Common Stock then outstanding, as of the most recent date practicable. Any sale or transfer by a Holder of Registrable Securities that could have been
effected either as a sale of securities pursuant to, and in accordance with, Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision) or a sale covered by a Shelf Registration shall be deemed for all purposes under this Agreement to be a sale
or transfer by such Holder pursuant to, and in accordance with, Rule 144 under the Securities Act.   
         23   

Section 2.12 Preservation of Rights.    
  (a) The Corporation will not (i) grant any registration rights to third parties which are inconsistent with the rights granted
hereunder or (ii) enter into any agreement, take any action, or permit any change to occur, with respect to its securities that violates the rights expressly granted to the Holders in this Agreement.   
  (b) Each Holder acknowledges and agrees that (i) it has received and reviewed in its entirety the Equity Registration Rights
Agreement and (ii) the Equity Registration Rights Agreement does not violate the terms of this Agreement.       ARTICLE 3
       TERMINATION        Section 3.1 Termination.  Other than  Sections 2.8  and  2.9  and  Article 4 , this Agreement and the obligations of the Corporation hereunder shall terminate upon the time
when there are no Registrable Securities remaining. With respect to each Holder, other than  Sections 2.8  and  2.9  and  Article 4 , this Agreement and the rights and obligations of such Holder hereunder shall
terminate when such Holder no longer holds any Registrable Securities. Notwithstanding the foregoing, all liabilities or obligations under  Sections 2.8  and  2.9  and  Article 4  shall remain in effect in accordance with
the terms of such provisions.       ARTICLE 4        MISCELLANEOUS        Section 4.1 Notices.  Any notice, request,
instruction, consent, document or other communication required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been sufficiently given or served for all purposes (a) upon delivery when personally
delivered; (b) on the delivery date after having been sent by a nationally or internationally recognized overnight courier service (charges prepaid); (c) at the time received when sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, postage prepaid; or (d) at the time when confirmation of successful transmission is received (or the first business day following such receipt if the date of such receipt is not a business day) if sent by facsimile, in each case, to
the recipient at the address or facsimile number, as applicable, indicated below:      If to the Corporation:   
  General Motors Company      Treasurer s Office      767 Fifth Avenue   
  New York, New York 10153      Attention:    Treasurer   
  Facsimile:    212-418-3695   
         24   

with copies to:      General Motors Company      300 Renaissance Center   
  Mail Code 482-C25-D81      Detroit, Michigan 48265-3000      Attention:    General Counsel
     Facsimile:    313-667-3188      and      Jenner   Block LLP   
  353 North Clark Street      Chicago, Illinois 60654-3456      Attention:    Joseph P.
Gromacki       Brian R. Boch      Facsimile:    312-923-2737       312-923-2980   
  If to the Hourly Plan Trust:      Evercore Trust Company, N.A.      55 East 52nd Street   
  New York, New York 10055      Attention:    Norman P. Goldberg   
  Facsimile:    202-318-0072      with copies to:      General Motors Investment Management Corporation   
  767 Fifth Avenue      New York, New York 10153      Attention:    General Counsel
     Facsimile:    212-418-6123      and      K L Gates LLP   
  535 Smithfield Street      Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2312      Attention:    Charles R.
Smith       Marcia C. Kelson      Facsimile:    412-355-6501   
         25   

If to the Salaried Plan Trust:   
  Evercore Trust Company, N.A.      55 East 52nd Street      New York, New York 10055   
  Attention:    Norman P. Goldberg      Facsimile:    202-318-0072      with copies to:   
  General Motors Investment Management Corporation      767 Fifth Avenue      New York, New York 10153   
  Attention:    General Counsel      Facsimile:    212-418-6123      and   
  K L Gates LLP      535 Smithfield Street      Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222-2312   
  Attention:    Charles R. Smith       Marcia C. Kelson      Facsimile:    412-355-6501
      provided ,  however , if any party shall have designated a different addressee and/or contact information by notice in accordance
with this  Section 4.1 , then to the last addressee as so designated.       Section 4.2 Authority.  Each of
the parties hereto represents to the other that (a) it has the corporate or other organizational power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement, (b) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by it has
been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or organizational action and no such further action is required, (c) it has duly and validly executed and delivered this Agreement, and (d) this Agreement is a legal, valid and binding
obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms subject to ERISA and applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors  rights generally and general equity principles.
      Section 4.3 No Third Party Beneficiaries.  This Agreement shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of
(a) the Corporation and its successors and permitted assigns, (b) each Holder (including any trustee or sub-trustee thereof) and any other investment manager or managers acting on behalf of such Holder with respect to the Registrable
Securities and their respective successors and permitted assigns and (c) each of the Persons entitled to indemnification under  Section 2.9  hereof. Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed to give any other Person any legal or
equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement.   
         26   

Section 4.4 Cooperation.  Each party hereto shall take such further action, and
execute such additional documents, as may be reasonably requested by any other party hereto in order to carry out the purposes of this Agreement.       Section 4.5 Governing Law; Forum Selection.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of New York irrespective of the choice of
laws principles of the State of New York other than Section 5-1401 of the General Obligations Law of the State of New York. Any action or proceeding against the parties relating in any way to this Agreement may be brought and enforced
exclusively in the courts of the State of New York located in the Borough of Manhattan or (to the extent subject matter jurisdiction exists therefor) the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York, and the parties irrevocably submit
to the jurisdiction of both courts in respect of any such action or proceeding.       Section 4.6 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL .
EACH PARTY WAIVES THE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY DISPUTE IN CONNECTION WITH OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY MATTERS DESCRIBED OR CONTEMPLATED HEREIN, AND AGREES TO TAKE ANY AND ALL ACTION NECESSARY OR APPROPRIATE TO EFFECT SUCH WAIVER. 
       Section 4.7 Successors and Assigns.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, including pursuant to
 Section 2.10 , neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations provided by this Agreement may be assigned by any party (whether by operation of law or otherwise) without the prior written consent of the other
parties, and any such assignment without such prior written consent shall be null and void. Subject to the preceding sentence and except as otherwise expressly provided herein, this Agreement shall be binding upon and benefit the Corporation, each
Holder, and their respective successors and permitted assigns.       Section 4.8 Entire Agreement . This Agreement
contains the final, exclusive and entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, whether written or oral, among the parties with
respect to the subject matter hereof. This Agreement shall not be deemed to contain or imply any restriction, covenant, representation, warranty, agreement or undertaking of any party with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby other than
those expressly set forth herein, and none shall be deemed to exist or be inferred with respect to the subject matter hereof.   
   Section 4.9 Severability.  Whenever possible, each term and provision of this Agreement will be interpreted in such manner as
to be effective and valid under law. If any term or provision of this Agreement, or the application thereof to any Person or any circumstance, is held to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) a suitable and equitable provision shall be
substituted therefor in order to carry out, so far as may be legal, valid and enforceable, the intent and purpose of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision and (b) the remainder of this Agreement or such term or provision and the
application of such term or provision to other Persons or circumstances shall remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected by such illegality, invalidity or unenforceability, nor shall such invalidity or unenforceability affect the
legality, validity or enforceability of such term or provision, or the application thereof, in any jurisdiction.   
         27   

Section 4.10 Enforcement of this Agreement . The parties agree that irreparable
damage would occur in the event that any provision of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with its specific terms or were otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the parties shall, without the posting of a bond, be entitled,
subject to a determination by a court of competent jurisdiction, to an injunction or injunctions to prevent any such failure of performance under, or breaches of, this Agreement, and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions hereof and
thereof, this being in addition to all other remedies available at law or in equity, and each party agrees that it will not oppose the granting of such relief on the basis that the requesting party has an adequate remedy at law.   
   Section 4.11 Amendment.  This Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented except upon the execution and delivery of
a written agreement executed by a duly authorized representative or officer of each of the parties.       Section 4.12
Headings . The descriptive headings of the Articles, Sections and paragraphs of this Agreement are included for convenience only, do not constitute a part of this Agreement and shall not be deemed to limit, modify or affect any of the provisions
hereof.       Section 4.13 Counterparts; Facsimiles.  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each
of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same Agreement. All signatures of the parties may be transmitted by facsimile or electronic delivery, and each such facsimile signature or electronic
delivery signature (including a pdf signature) will, for all purposes, be deemed to be the original signature of the party whose signature it reproduces and be binding upon such party.   
   Section 4.14 Time Periods . Unless otherwise specified in this Agreement, an action required under this Agreement to be taken
within a certain number of days shall be taken within that number of calendar days (and not business days);  provided ,  however , that if the last day for taking such action falls on a day that is not a business day, the period during
which such action may be taken shall be automatically extended to the next business day.       Section 4.15 Legends and
Notations . Each of the Holders covenants and agrees that it will cooperate with the Corporation and take all action necessary to ensure that the Corporation s stock transfer records relating to any Registrable Securities held by such Holder
(whether held in certificated or uncertificated form) conspicuously bears a legend or other appropriate notation or designation in substantially the following form in addition to any other legend, notation or designation that may be required by the
Corporation:      THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY ARE ISSUED SUBJECT TO THE RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF A
REGISTRATION RIGHTS AGREEMENT, DATED JANUARY 13, 2011, AMONG THE ISSUER OF THESE SECURITIES AND THE HOLDERS REFERRED TO THEREIN, A COPY OF WHICH IS ON FILE WITH THE ISSUER. THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY MAY NOT BE SOLD
  
         28   

OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN COMPLIANCE WITH SAID AGREEMENT. ANY SALE OR OTHER TRANSFER NOT IN COMPLIANCE WITH SAID AGREEMENT WILL BE VOID.   
  [THE REMAINDER OF THIS PAGE IS INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]   
         29   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto, being duly authorized, have executed and
delivered this Registration Rights Agreement on the date first above written.        

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY    

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

GENERAL MOTORS SPECIAL HOURLY-RATE EMPLOYEES PENSION TRUST    

By: Evercore Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee   

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

GENERAL MOTORS SPECIAL SALARIED EMPLOYEES PENSION TRUST    

By: Evercore Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee   

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

</EX-10.44>

<EX-10.45>
 6
 dex1045.htm
 STOCKHOLDERS AGREEMENT

Stockholders Agreement 

Exhibit 10.45        EXECUTION VERSION        STOCKHOLDERS AGREEMENT    
  This Stockholders Agreement (this   Agreement  ) is entered into as of January 13, 2011  ,   by and among
GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the   Corporation  ), Evercore Trust Company, N.A. (  Evercore  ), as trustee of, and acting on behalf of, the GENERAL MOTORS SPECIAL HOURLY-RATE EMPLOYEES PENSION
TRUST (the   Hourly Plan Trust  ) established under the GENERAL MOTORS HOURLY-RATE EMPLOYEES PENSION PLAN (the   Hourly Pension Plan  ) for the account and on behalf of the Hourly Pension Plan, and Evercore, as
trustee of, and acting on behalf of, the GENERAL MOTORS SPECIAL SALARIED EMPLOYEES PENSION TRUST (individually, the   Salaried Plan Trust  , and, together with the Hourly Plan Trust, the   Trusts   ) established under
the GENERAL MOTORS RETIREMENT PROGRAM FOR SALARIED EMPLOYEES (the   Salaried Pension Plan  ) for the account and on behalf of the Salaried Pension Plan.      WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, the Corporation, the Hourly Plan Trust and the Salaried Plan Trust have executed that certain Contribution Agreement, dated as of the date
hereof (the   Contribution Agreement  ), pursuant to which the Corporation is contributing (i) to the Hourly Plan Trust 40,404,041 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Corporation (  Common
Stock  ), and (ii) to the Salaried Plan Trust 20,202,020 shares of Common Stock (such shares of Common Stock contributed to the Trusts, the   Common Shares     
  WHEREAS, concurrently with the execution of this Agreement, the Corporation, the Hourly Plan Trust and the Salaried Plan Trust have
executed that certain Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of the date hereof, which provides each of the Trusts and its permitted assigns with certain registration rights with respect to the Common Shares, on the terms and conditions set forth
therein; and      WHEREAS, in connection with the foregoing, the parties hereto wish to enter into this Agreement to govern the
rights and obligations of the parties with respect to certain matters relating to the Corporation and each Trust s ownership and voting of the Common Shares.      NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and the mutual agreements set forth herein and other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the
parties hereby agree as follows:       ARTICLE I        DEFINITIONS        Section 1.1 Certain Defined Terms.  As used
herein, the following terms shall have the following meanings:        Affiliate   means, with respect to any
Person, any other Person who Controls, is Controlled by or is under common Control with, such Person.   
    Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.   
    Board   means the Board of Directors of the Corporation.   

Common Shares   shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.
       Common Stock   shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.   
    Contribution Agreement   shall have the meaning set forth in the Recitals.   
    Control   means the direct or indirect power to direct or cause the direction of management or policies of a Person,
whether through the ownership of voting securities, general partnership interests or management member interests, by contract or trust agreement, pursuant to a voting trust or otherwise.  Controlling  and  Controlled  have the
correlative meanings.        Corporation   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.   
    ERISA   means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, and the rules and regulations promulgated
thereunder.        Evercore   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.   
    Exchange Ac t  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.
       Executive Officer   means any officer who is subject to Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act.   
    Governmental Authority   means any United States or non-United States federal, provincial, state or local government or
other political subdivision thereof, any entity, authority, agency or body exercising executive, legislative, judicial, regulatory or administrative functions of any such government or political subdivision, and any supranational organization of
sovereign states exercising such functions for such sovereign states.        Group   has the meaning given to such
term in Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act.        Hourly Pension Plan   shall have the meaning set forth in
the Preamble.        Hourly Plan Trust   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.   
    Nominee   shall have the meaning set forth in  Section 3.2 .   
    Person   means any individual, partnership, firm, corporation, association, trust, unincorporated organization, joint
venture, limited liability company, Governmental Authority or other entity.        Proxy   or
  Proxies   has the meaning given to such term in Rule 14a-1 of the Exchange Act.        Rule 144  
means Rule 144 under the Securities Act (or any successor provision).        Salaried Pension Plan   shall have the
meaning set forth in the Preamble.   
         2   

Salaried Plan Trust   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.
           Securities   means (a) the Common Shares, and (b) any equity security issued in
exchange for or with respect to any of the Common Shares referred to in clause (a) above by way of a stock dividend or stock split or in connection with a combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation or other reorganization or
similar transaction, or otherwise.            Securities Act   means the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder.        Solicitation   has the meaning given to such term in Rule
14a-1 of the Exchange Act.        Transfer   means, directly or indirectly, to sell, transfer, assign, pledge,
hedge, encumber, hypothecate or similarly dispose of, or to enter into any contract, option or other arrangement or understanding with respect to the sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, hedge, encumbrance, hypothecation or similar disposition.
       Trusts   shall have the meaning set forth in the Preamble.   
    Voting Securities   means any securities of the Corporation, including the Common Stock, with the power to vote with
respect to the election of directors of the Corporation generally and any securities convertible into or exchangeable for securities of the Corporation with the power to vote with respect to the election of directors of the Corporation generally.
      Section 1.2 Terms Generally.  The definitions in  Section 1.1  shall apply equally to both the singular
and plural forms of the terms defined. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms. The words  include ,  includes  and  including  shall be deemed
to be followed by the phrase  without limitation , unless the context expressly provides otherwise. All references herein to Sections, paragraphs, subparagraphs or clauses shall be deemed references to Sections, paragraphs, subparagraphs
or clauses of this Agreement, unless the context requires otherwise. Unless otherwise specified, the words  this Agreement ,  herein ,  hereof ,  hereto  and  hereunder  and other words of similar
import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. The word  extent  in the phrase  to the extent  shall mean the degree to which a subject or other thing extends, and such phrase
shall not mean simply  if . Unless expressly stated otherwise, any law defined or referred to herein means such law as from time to time amended, modified or supplemented, including by succession of comparable successor laws and references
to all attachments thereto and instruments incorporated therein. References to a Person are also to its permitted successors and assigns.       ARTICLE II        CERTAIN COVENANTS AND RESTRICTIONS    
   Section 2.1 Standstill.  Neither of the Trusts shall, during the term of this Agreement, directly or indirectly, alone or in
concert with others, without the prior written consent of the Board, take any of the actions set forth below (or take any action that would require the Corporation to make any public announcement regarding any of the following):   
  (a) acquire, announce an intention to acquire, offer or propose to acquire or agree to acquire, by purchase or otherwise, beneficial
ownership of any Voting Securities, other than (i) the acquisition of Common Stock pursuant to the Contribution Agreement or (ii) the acquisition of Voting Securities in connection with any future contribution of Voting Securities by the
Corporation to such Trust;   
         3   

(b) make, or in any way participate in, any Solicitation of Proxies to vote any Voting
Securities or any Solicitation of any written consent to corporate action from any holders of Voting Securities, seek to advise, assist, instigate, encourage or influence any Person with respect to the voting of any Voting Securities, initiate or
propose any stockholder proposal or induce or attempt to induce any other Person to initiate any stockholder proposal;      (c)
make any statement or proposal, whether written or oral, to the Board, or to any director, officer or agent of the Corporation, or make any public announcement or proposal whatsoever with respect to a merger or other business combination, sale or
transfer of any asset or assets of the Corporation that individually or collectively are material to the Corporation, recapitalization, extraordinary dividend, share repurchase, liquidation or other extraordinary corporate transaction involving the
Corporation or any other transaction which could result in a change of control of the Corporation, or solicit or encourage any other Person to make any such statement, proposal or announcement;   
  (d) form, join or in any way participate in a Group with respect to any Voting Securities of the Corporation;   
  (e) deposit any Voting Securities into a voting trust or subject any Voting Securities to any arrangement or agreement with respect to
the voting of any Voting Securities, other than as expressly contemplated by this Agreement;      (f) call, request the calling
of, or otherwise seek to assist in the calling of, a special meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation;      (g) participate
in any meeting of the stockholders or execute any written consent to corporate action with respect to the Corporation, other than in accordance with this Agreement;      (h) seek to place a representative on the Board or seek the removal of any member of the Board;      (i) act alone or in concert with others to seek to Control or influence in any manner the management, the Board or the policies of the Corporation or any of its Affiliates;   
  (j) make a request (public or otherwise) to the Corporation (or its directors, officers, stockholders, employees or agents) to amend or
waive this  Section 2.1  or the Certificate of Incorporation (including any certificate of designations thereunder) or Bylaws of the Corporation, including any request (public or otherwise) to permit such Trust or its Affiliates, or any
other Person, to take any action in respect of the matters referred to in this  Section 2.1 ;   
         4   

(k) publicly disclose any intention, plan or arrangement inconsistent with this
 Section 2.1 ; or      (l) advise, assist, instigate, encourage or influence any other Person to do any of the
foregoing.      The foregoing provisions shall not prohibit either Trust from:   
  (i) acquiring any interest in any fund or collective investment vehicle that owns Voting Securities (so long as
(x) such acquisition is not undertaken for the purpose of avoiding this  Section 2.1 , (y) Voting Securities comprise no more than 5% of the net asset value of such fund or investment vehicle and (z) neither such Trust nor
any of its Affiliates possesses the right, power or ability to Control such fund or collective investment vehicle or its manager); or      (ii) subject to  Section 2.2 , tendering into any tender or exchange offer as seller.       Section 2.2 Transfer Restrictions.  Subject to the restrictions set forth in this  Section 2.2  (which restrictions shall not apply with respect to sales made in an underwritten
offering pursuant to a registration statement of the Corporation), each of the Trusts shall have the right to Transfer all or any portion of its Securities, subject to compliance with applicable law.   
  (a) Without the prior written consent of the Board, neither of the Trusts shall Transfer any Securities (or any interest therein) to
(i) any one Person or Group (whether such Person or Group is buying for its own account or as a fiduciary on behalf of one or more accounts) if the Securities subject to such Transfer would represent more than 2% of the Common Stock then
outstanding or (ii) any one Person or Group if such Person or Group is then required to file, or has filed, or as a result of such Transfer would be required to file (to the knowledge of such Trust after reasonable inquiry), a statement on
Schedule 13D under the Exchange Act with respect to its equity interest in the Corporation. Notwithstanding the foregoing, either of the Trusts may Transfer any or all of its shares of Securities pursuant to an exchange offer or a tender offer (or a
request or invitation for tenders) to the extent not prohibited pursuant to  Section 2.2(b) , or pursuant to a merger or consolidation.      (b) Without the prior written consent of the Board, neither of the Trusts shall Transfer any Securities to any automotive manufacturer or any Affiliate thereof.   
  (c) No Transfer of Securities in violation of this Agreement, or in violation of any restrictive legends, notations or designations on
the certificates for or other evidences of ownership of the Securities, shall be made or recorded on the books of the Corporation, and any such Transfer shall be void and of no effect.   
  (d) Upon the Corporation s request, each of the Trusts shall promptly notify the Corporation in writing of the number and type of
Securities then beneficially owned by such Trust.   
         5   

Section 2.3 Legends and Notations.  Each of the Trusts covenants and agrees that
it will cooperate with the Corporation and take all action necessary to ensure that the Corporation s stock transfer records relating to any Securities held by such Trust (whether held in certificated or uncertificated form) conspicuously bears
a legend or other appropriate notation or designation in substantially the following form in addition to any other legend, notation or designation that may be required by the Corporation:   
  THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY ARE ISSUED SUBJECT TO THE RESTRICTIONS ON TRANSFER AND OTHER PROVISIONS OF A STOCKHOLDERS AGREEMENT,
DATED JANUARY 13, 2011, AMONG THE ISSUER OF SUCH SECURITIES AND THE INVESTORS REFERRED TO THEREIN, A COPY OF WHICH IS ON FILE WITH THE ISSUER. THE SECURITIES REPRESENTED HEREBY MAY NOT BE SOLD OR OTHERWISE TRANSFERRED EXCEPT IN COMPLIANCE WITH SAID
AGREEMENT. ANY SALE OR OTHER TRANSFER NOT IN COMPLIANCE WITH SAID AGREEMENT WILL BE VOID.       ARTICLE III    
   VOTING AGREEMENT        Section 3.1 Agreement to Vote.  Each of the Trusts hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that from and after the date hereof until the date of termination of this Agreement in
accordance with its terms, at any meeting (whether annual or special and each adjournment or postponement thereof) of the Corporation s stockholders, however called, or in connection with any proposed action by written consent of the
Corporation s stockholders, such Trust will (a) appear at such meeting or otherwise cause any and all Securities held by such Trust to be counted as present thereat for purposes of calculating a quorum and (b) vote or cause to be
voted (including by written consent, if applicable) such Securities on each matter presented to the stockholders of the Corporation in the same proportionate manner (either  for,   against,   withheld  or otherwise) as
(x) in the case of proposed stockholder action at a meeting of the Corporation s stockholders, the holders of Common Stock (other than such Trust, and the directors and Executive Officers of the Corporation) that were present and entitled
to vote on such matter voted in connection with each such matter and (y) in the case of proposed stockholder action by written consent, all the holders of Common Stock (other than such Trust, and the directors and Executive Officers of the
Corporation) consented or did not consent in connection with each such matter.       Section 3.2 Irrevocable Proxy. 
Each of the Trusts hereby revokes any and all previous proxies granted with respect to the Securities held by such Trust. Subject to the last two sentences of this  Section 3.2 , upon the request of the Corporation and subject to
applicable law, each of the Trusts shall, or shall use its reasonable best efforts to cause any Person serving as the nominee (the   Nominee  ) of such Trust with respect to the Securities held by such Trust to, irrevocably
appoint the Corporation or its designee as such Trust s proxy to vote (or cause to be voted) such Securities in accordance with  Section 3.1  hereof. Such proxy shall be irrevocable and coupled with an interest. In the event
that any such Nominee for any reason fails to irrevocably appoint the Corporation or its designee as such Trust s proxy in accordance with this  Section 3.2 , such Trust shall cause such Nominee to vote the Securities held by such
Trust in accordance with  Section 3.1 . In the event that either of the Trusts or any Nominee fails for any reason to vote such Securities in accordance with the requirements of  Section 3.1 , then the
  
         6   

Corporation or its designee shall have the right to vote the Securities held by such Trust in accordance with  Section 3.1 . Subject to applicable law, the vote of the Corporation
or its designee shall control in any conflict between the vote by the Corporation or its designee of either Trust s Securities and a vote by such Trust (or any Nominee on behalf of such Trust) of its Securities. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the proxy granted by each of the Trusts and/or any Nominee shall be automatically revoked upon termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms.       Section 3.3 Inconsistent Voting Agreements.  Each of the Trusts hereby agrees that such Trust shall not enter into any agreement, contract or understanding with any Person (prior to the
termination of this Agreement in accordance with its terms) directly or indirectly to vote, grant a proxy or power of attorney or give instructions with respect to the voting of the Securities held by such Trust in any manner which is inconsistent
with this Agreement.       Section 3.4 ERISA Fiduciary Limitations.  The foregoing provisions of this  Article III 
notwithstanding, the actions of the trustee of either Trust with respect to voting any Securities held by either Trust are governed by the fiduciary duties and requirements of ERISA. The trustee of the Trusts will follow the provisions set forth in
this  Article III  unless the trustee concludes based on the advice of its counsel that following such provisions would be contrary to ERISA s mandates. If the trustee so determines that it cannot follow the provisions of this  Article
III , the trustee will exercise its own fiduciary judgment in determining how to vote the Securities held by the Trusts.   
   ARTICLE IV    
   MISCELLANEOUS        Section 4.1 Notices.  Any notice, request, instruction, consent, document or other communication required or permitted to be given under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed
to have been sufficiently given or served for all purposes (a) upon delivery when personally delivered; (b) on the delivery date after having been sent by a nationally or internationally recognized overnight courier service (charges
prepaid); (c) at the time received when sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid; or (d) at the time when confirmation of successful transmission is received (or the first business day following such
receipt if the date of such receipt is not a business day) if sent by facsimile, in each case, to the recipient at the address or facsimile number, as applicable, indicated below:   
  If to the Corporation:      General Motors Company      Treasurer s Office   
  767 Fifth Avenue      New York, New York 10153      Attention:    Treasurer   
  Facsimile:    212-418-3695   
         7   

with copies to:      General Motors Company      300 Renaissance Center   
  Mail Code 482-C25-D81      Detroit, Michigan 48265-3000      Attention:    General Counsel
     Facsimile:    313-667-3188      and      Jenner   Block LLP   
  353 North Clark Street      Chicago, Illinois 60654-3456      Attention:    Joseph P.
Gromacki       Brian R. Boch      Facsimile:    312-923-2737       312-923-2980   
  If to the Hourly Plan Trust:      Evercore Trust Company, N.A.      55 East 52nd Street   
  New York, New York 10055      Attention:    Norman P. Goldberg   
  Facsimile:    202-318-0072      with copies to:      General Motors Investment Management Corporation   
  767 Fifth Avenue      New York, New York 10153      Attention:    General Counsel
     Facsimile:    212-418-6123      and      K L Gates LLP   
  201 Sixth Avenue      Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222      Attention:    Charles R.
Smith       Marcia C. Kelson      Facsimile:    412-355-6501   
         8   

If to the Salaried Plan Trust:   
  Evercore Trust Company, N.A.      55 East 52nd Street      New York, New York 10055   
  Attention:    Norman P. Goldberg      Facsimile:    202-318-0072      with copies to:   
  General Motors Investment Management Corporation      767 Fifth Avenue      New York, New York 10153   
  Attention:    General Counsel      Facsimile:    212-418-6123      and   
  K L Gates LLP      210 Sixth Avenue      Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 15222   
  Attention:    Charles R. Smith       Marcia C. Kelson      Facsimile:    412-355-6501
      provided ,  however , if any party shall have designated a different addressee and/or contact information by notice in accordance
with this  Section 4.1 , then to the last addressee as so designated.       Section 4.2 Authority.  Each of
the parties hereto represents to the other parties that (a) it has the corporate or other organizational power and authority to execute, deliver and perform this Agreement, (b) the execution, delivery and performance of this Agreement by
it has been duly authorized by all necessary corporate or organizational action and no such further action is required, (c) it has duly and validly executed and delivered this Agreement, and (d) this Agreement is a legal, valid and binding
obligation, enforceable against it in accordance with its terms subject to ERISA and applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other similar laws affecting creditors  rights generally and general equity principles.
      Section 4.3 Termination.  The rights, restrictions and obligations of the parties hereto shall terminate and this
Agreement shall have no further force and effect upon (a) in the case of the Corporation, the date on which neither of the Trusts holds any Securities; (b) in the case of the Hourly Plan Trust, the date on which the Hourly Plan Trust no
longer holds any Securities; and (c) in the case of the Salaried Plan Trust, the date on which the Salaried Plan Trust no longer holds any Securities;  provided  that the provisions of this  Article IV  shall continue in perpetuity.
      Section 4.4 No Third Party Beneficiaries.  This Agreement shall be for the sole and exclusive benefit of
(a) the Corporation and its successors and permitted assigns, (b) the Hourly Plan Trust (including any trustee or sub-trustee thereof) and any other investment manager or   
         9   

managers acting on behalf of the Hourly Plan Trust with respect to the Securities and their respective successors and permitted assigns, and (c) the Salaried Plan Trust (including any
trustee or sub-trustee thereof) and any other investment manager or managers acting on behalf of the Salaried Plan Trust with respect to the Securities and their respective successors and permitted assigns. Nothing in this Agreement shall be
construed to give any other Person any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under this Agreement.       Section 4.5
Cooperation.  Each party hereto shall take such further action, and execute such additional documents, as may be reasonably requested by any other party hereto in order to carry out the purposes of this Agreement.   
   Section 4.6 Governing law; Forum Selection.  This Agreement shall be governed by and construed and interpreted in accordance
with the laws of the State of New York irrespective of the choice of laws principles of the State of New York other than Section 5-1401 of the General Obligations law of the State of New York. Any action or proceeding against the parties
relating in any way to this Agreement may be brought and enforced exclusively in the courts of the State of New York located in the Borough of Manhattan or (to the extent subject matter jurisdiction exists therefor) the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of New York, and the parties irrevocably submit to the jurisdiction of both courts in respect of any such action or proceeding.       SECTION 4.7 WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.  EACH PARTY WAIVES THE RIGHT TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY DISPUTE IN CONNECTION WITH OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY MATTERS DESCRIBED OR CONTEMPLATED
HEREIN, AND AGREES TO TAKE ANY AND ALL ACTION NECESSARY OR APPROPRIATE TO EFFECT SUCH WAIVER.       Section 4.8 Successors
and Assigns.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, neither this Agreement nor any of the rights, interests or obligations provided by this Agreement may be assigned by any party (whether by operation of law or otherwise) without the
prior written consent of the other parties, and any such assignment without such prior written consent shall be null and void. Subject to the preceding sentence and except as otherwise expressly provided herein, this Agreement shall be binding upon
and benefit the Corporation, the Hourly Plan Trust and the Salaried Plan Trust and their respective successors and permitted assigns.       Section 4.9 Entire Agreement.  This Agreement contains the final, exclusive and entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all
prior and contemporaneous agreements and understandings, whether written or oral, among the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof, except for (i) that certain letter agreement by and among General Motors Investment Management
Corporation (formerly known as Promark Investment Advisors, Inc.) (  GMIMCo  ), General Motors LLC (  GM LLC  ) and Evercore, dated as of January 6, 2011, with respect to services to be performed by Evercore with
respect to the Hourly Pension Plan, (ii) the Trust Agreement by and between Evercore and GMIMCo, dated as of January 11, 2011, evidencing the Hourly Plan Trust, (iii) that certain letter agreement by and among GMIMCo, GM LLC and
Evercore, dated as of January 6, 2011, with respect to services to be performed by Evercore with respect to the Salaried Pension Plan, and (iv) the Trust Agreement by and between Evercore and GMIMCo, dated as of January 11, 2011,
evidencing the Salaried Plan Trust. This Agreement shall not be deemed to contain or imply any   
         10   

restriction, covenant, representation, warranty, agreement or undertaking of any party with respect to the transactions contemplated hereby other than those expressly set forth herein, and none
shall be deemed to exist or be inferred with respect to the subject matter hereof.       Section 4.10 Severability. 
Whenever possible, each term and provision of this Agreement will be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under law. If any term or provision of this Agreement, or the application thereof to any Person or any circumstance, is held
to be illegal, invalid or unenforceable, (a) a suitable and equitable provision shall be substituted therefor in order to carry out, so far as may be legal, valid and enforceable, the intent and purpose of such illegal, invalid or unenforceable
provision and (b) the remainder of this Agreement or such term or provision and the application of such term or provision to other Persons or circumstances shall remain in full force and effect and shall not be affected by such illegality,
invalidity or unenforceability, nor shall such invalidity or unenforceability affect the legality, validity or enforceability of such term or provision, or the application thereof, in any jurisdiction.   
   Section 4.11 Enforcement of this Agreement.  The parties agree that irreparable damage would occur in the event that any
provision of this Agreement were not performed in accordance with its specific terms or were otherwise breached. It is accordingly agreed that the parties shall, without the posting of a bond, be entitled, subject to a determination by a court of
competent jurisdiction, to an injunction or injunctions to prevent any such failure of performance under, or breaches of, this Agreement, and to enforce specifically the terms and provisions hereof and thereof, this being in addition to all other
remedies available at law or in equity, and each party agrees that it will not oppose the granting of such relief on the basis that the requesting party has an adequate remedy at law.   
   Section 4.12 Amendments.  This Agreement may not be amended, modified or supplemented except upon the execution and delivery
of a written agreement executed by a duly authorized representative or officer of each of the parties.       Section 4.13
Headings.  The descriptive headings of the Articles, Sections and paragraphs of this Agreement are included for convenience only, do not constitute a part of this Agreement and shall not be deemed to limit, modify or affect any of the provisions
hereof.       Section 4.14 Counterparts; Facsimiles.  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each
of which shall be deemed an original, and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same Agreement. All signatures of the parties may be transmitted by facsimile or electronic delivery, and each such facsimile signature or electronic
delivery signature (including a pdf signature) will, for all purposes, be deemed to be the original signature of the party whose signature it reproduces and be binding upon such party.   
  *            *          
  *            *   
         11   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , the parties hereto, being duly authorized, have executed and
delivered this Stockholders Agreement on the date first above written.        

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY    

By:   

Name:  

Title:  

GENERAL MOTORS SPECIAL HOURLY-RATE EMPLOYEES PENSION TRUST    

By: Evercore Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee   

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

GENERAL MOTORS SPECIAL SALARIED EMPLOYEES PENSION TRUST    

By: Evercore Trust Company, N.A., as Trustee   

By:  

Name:  

Title:  

</EX-10.45>

<EX-12>
 7
 dex12.htm
 COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12        GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES        COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS
TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS         (Dollars in millions)     

Earnings for the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 and the years ended December 31, 2008, and 2007 were inadequate to
cover fixed charges. Additional earnings of $5.0 billion, $23.0 billion and $4.4 billion for the period July 10, 2009 through December 31, 2009 and the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 would have been necessary to bring ratios for these
periods to 1.0.   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 8
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010

Subsidiaries of the Registrant as of December 31, 2010 

Exhibit 21        GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY        AND SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES, AND AFFILIATES
       OF THE REGISTRANT        AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010        

Company Name    
     
     State or   
   Sovereign Power       of Incorporation     
 
    06 Ormskirk Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    1908 Holdings Ltd.   
     
  Cayman Islands   
 
    2035208 Ontario Inc.   
     
  Canada   
 
    2140879 Ontario Inc.   
     
  Canada   
 
    6153933 Canada Ltd.   
     
  Canada   
 
    ACAR Leasing Ltd.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    ACF Investment Corp.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Adam Opel GmbH   
     
  Germany   
 
    Advantage Chevrolet of Bolingbrook, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AFS Funding Corp.   
     
  Nevada   
 
    AFS Funding Trust   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AFS Management Corp.   
     
  Nevada   
 
    AFS SenSub Corp.   
     
  Nevada   
 
    Aftermarket (UK) Limited   
     
  England   
 
    Aftermarket Italia S.r.l. in liquidazione   
     
  Italy   
 
    AL Mansour Automotive SAE   
     
  Egypt   
 
    ALBI Trust   
     
  Delaware   
 
    ALC Leasing Ltd.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Ally Financial Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2005-C-F   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2005-D-A   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2006-1   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2006-A-F   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2006-B-G   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2006-R-M   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2007-1   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2007-A-X   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2007-B-F   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2007-C-M   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2007-D-F   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2008-1   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2008-2   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2008-A-F   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2009-1   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2010-1   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2010-2   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2010-3   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2010-4   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2010-A   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Automobile Receivables Trust 2010-B   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Canada Receivables Funding Trust   
     
  Canada   
 
    AmeriCredit Class B Note Funding Trust   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Class C Note Funding Trust   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Consumer Discount Company   
     
  Pennsylvania    

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY    
   AND SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES, AND AFFILIATES        OF THE REGISTRANT        AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010    

Company Name    
     
     State or   
   Sovereign Power       of Incorporation     

AmeriCredit Consumer Loan Company, Inc.   
     
  Nevada   
 
    AmeriCredit Corporation of California   
     
  California   
 
    AmeriCredit Financial Services of Canada Ltd.   
     
  Canada   
 
    AmeriCredit Financial Services, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Flight Operations, LLC   
     
  Texas   
 
    AmeriCredit Funding Corp. XI   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Management Trust   
     
  Connecticut   
 
    AmeriCredit MTN Corp. V   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit MTN Receivables Trust V   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit NS I Co.   
     
  Canada   
 
    AmeriCredit NSII Co.   
     
  Canada   
 
    AmeriCredit Prime Automobile Receivables Trust 2007-1   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Prime Automobile Receivables Trust 2007-2-M   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Prime Automobile Receivables Trust 2007-2-M   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Prime Automobile Receivables Trust 2009-1   
     
  Delaware   
 
    AmeriCredit Syndicated Warehouse Trust   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Andiamo Riverfront, LLC   
     
  Michigan   
 
    Annunciata Corporation   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Antelope Valley Chevrolet, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    APEO Trust   
     
  Delaware   
 
    APGO Trust   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Approach (UK) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Argonaut Holdings, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Athens Chevrolet, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    ATK Automotive Technology Kaiserslautern GmbH   
     
  Germany   
 
    Auto Lease Finance Corporation   
     
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Autohaus G.V.O. GmbH   
     
  Germany   
 
    Autovision (Scotland) Limited   
     
  Scotland   
 
    Aviation Spectrum Resources Holdings, Incorporated   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Baker (Crewe) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Ballards of Watford Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Bay View 2005 LJ-1 Owner Trust   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Bay View 2005 LJ-2 Owner Trust   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Bay View 2005-3 Owner Trust   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Bay View Acceptance Corporation   
     
  Nevada   
 
    Bay View Deposit Corporation   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Baylis (Gloucester) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Belmont Grampian Limited   
     
  Scotland   
 
    Berse Road (No. 1) Limited   
     
  England   
 
    Berse Road (No. 2) Limited   
     
  England   
 
    Bicknell (Malvern) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Bill Osborne Chevrolet Ltd.   
     
  Canada   
 
    Blackdown Motor Company Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    BOCO (Proprietary) Limited   
     
  South Africa   
 
    Boco Trust   
     
  South Africa    

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY    
   AND SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES, AND AFFILIATES        OF THE REGISTRANT        AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010    

Company Name    
     
     State or   
   Sovereign Power       of Incorporation     

Brandish Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Britain Chevrolet, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Buick Pontiac GMC of Moosic, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Buttonpaper Limited   
     
  England   
 
    Cadillac Polanco, S.A. de C.V.   
     
  Mexico   
 
    CAMI Automotive, Inc.   
     
  Canada   
 
    Canadian Satellite Radio Holdings Inc.   
     
  Canada   
 
    CAR Group, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Carrefour 440 Chevrolet Pontiac Buick GMC   
     
  Canada   
 
    Carve-Out Ownership Cooperative LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Caterpillar Logistics SCS   
     
  Italy   
 
    Caterpillar Logistics Supply Chain Services GmbH   
     
  Germany   
 
    Champion Chevrolet, Pontiac, Buick, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Charles Hurst Motors Limited   
     
  Northern Ireland   
 
    Chevrolet Austria GmbH   
     
  Austria   
 
    Chevrolet Belgium NV   
     
  Belgium   
 
    Chevrolet Central and Eastern Europe   
     
  Hungary   
 
    Chevrolet Deutschland GmbH   
     
  Germany   
 
    Chevrolet Espana, S.A.   
     
  Spain   
 
    Chevrolet Euro Parts Center B.V.   
     
  Netherlands   
 
    Chevrolet Europe GmbH   
     
  Switzerland   
 
    Chevrolet Finland Oy   
     
  Finland   
 
    Chevrolet France   
     
  France   
 
    Chevrolet Italia S.p.A.   
     
  Italy   
 
    Chevrolet Nederland B.V.   
     
  Netherlands   
 
    Chevrolet of Novato, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Chevrolet Poland Sp. z o.o.   
     
  Poland   
 
    Chevrolet Portugal, Lda.   
     
  Portugal   
 
    Chevrolet Sales (Thailand) Limited   
     
  Thailand   
 
    Chevrolet Sales India Private Ltd.   
     
  India   
 
    Chevrolet Sociedad Anonima de Ahorro para Fines Determinados   
     
  Argentina   
 
    Chevrolet Suisse S.A.   
     
  Switzerland   
 
    Chevrolet Sverige AB   
     
  Sweden   
 
    Chevrolet T rkiye Otomotive Limited Sirketi   
     
  Turkey   
 
    Chevrolet UK Limited Ltd   
     
  England   
 
    CHEVYPLAN S.A. Sociedad Administradora de Planes de Autofinanciamiento Comercial   
     
  Colombia   
 
    Cole Buick Pontiac GMC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Concept Vehicles Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Controladora AC Delco S.A. de C.V.   
     
  Mexico   
 
    Controladora General Motors, S.A. de C.V.   
     
  Mexico   
 
    Coskata, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Crash Avoidance Metrics Partnerships   
     
  Michigan   
 
    Crown Motors (Dagenham) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    CSM Holdings Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Daewoo Motor De Puerto Rico Inc.   
     
  Puerto Rico    

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY    
   AND SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES, AND AFFILIATES        OF THE REGISTRANT        AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010    

Company Name    
     
     State or   
   Sovereign Power       of Incorporation     

Dealer Guarantee Ltd.   
     
  England   
 
    Dealership Liquidations, Inc.   
     
  Michigan   
 
    Delphi Automotive LLP   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Delphi Energy and Engine Management Systems UK Overseas Corporation   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Desert Sun Roswell, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Detroit Investment Fund, L.P.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Dinuba Auto Center, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    DIP Holdco LLP   
     
  United Kingdom   
 
    DMAX, Ltd.   
     
  Ohio   
 
    Dobies (Carlisle) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Doraville Bond Corporation   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Drive Motor Retail Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Eden (GM) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Elasto S.A.   
     
  Ecuador   
 
    Envia Systems, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Espace 328 SARL   
     
  France   
 
    F G Barnes (Maidstone) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Fabrica Nacional de Autobuses Fanabus, S.A.   
     
  Venezuela   
 
    FAW-GM Light Duty Commercial Vehicle Co., Ltd.   
     
  China   
 
    Fiducie Carrefour 440   
     
  Canada   
 
    Fredericktown Chevrolet Co., Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Galleria Chevrolet-Cadillac, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Gateway Chevrolet Motor Company   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GEMA Automotive, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General International Insurance Services Limited   
     
  Bermuda   
 
    General International Limited   
     
  Bermuda   
 
    General Motors (China) Investment Company Limited   
     
  China   
 
    General Motors (Hong Kong) Company Limited   
     
  Hong Kong   
 
    General Motors (Thailand) Limited   
     
  Thailand   
 
    General Motors - Colmotores S.A.   
     
  Colombia   
 
    General Motors Africa and Middle East FZE   
     
  United Arab Emirates   
 
    General Motors Asia Pacific (Japan) Limited   
     
  Japan   
 
    General Motors Asia Pacific (Pte) Ltd.   
     
  Singapore   
 
    General Motors Asia Pacific Holdings, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors Asia, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors Asset Management Corporation   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors Australia Ltd.   
     
  Australia   
 
    General Motors Austria GmbH   
     
  Austria   
 
    General Motors Auto LLC   
     
  Russian Federation   
 
    General Motors Automobiles Philippines, Inc.   
     
  Philippines   
 
    General Motors Automotive Holdings, S.L.   
     
  Spain   
 
    General Motors Belgium N.V.   
     
  Belgium   
 
    General Motors Chile Industria Automotriz Limitada   
     
  Chile   
 
    General Motors China, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors CIS,LLC   
     
  Russian Federation    

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY    
   AND SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES, AND AFFILIATES        OF THE REGISTRANT        AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010    

Company Name    
     
     State or   
   Sovereign Power       of Incorporation     

General Motors Company   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors Coordination Center BVBA   
     
  Belgium   
 
    General Motors Daewoo Auto and Technology CIS LLC   
     
  Russian Federation   
 
    General Motors de Argentina S.r.l.   
     
  Argentina   
 
    General Motors de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.   
     
  Mexico   
 
    General Motors del Ecuador S.A.   
     
  Ecuador   
 
    General Motors do Brasil Ltda.   
     
  Brazil   
 
    General Motors East Africa Limited   
     
  Kenya   
 
    General Motors Egypt, S.A.E.   
     
  Egypt   
 
    General Motors Espana, S.L.U.   
     
  Spain   
 
    General Motors Europe AG   
     
  Switzerland   
 
    General Motors Europe Holdings, S.L.   
     
  Spain   
 
    General Motors Financial Company, Inc.   
     
  Texas   
 
    General Motors Finland Oy   
     
  Finland   
 
    General Motors Foundation, Inc.   
     
  Michigan   
 
    General Motors France   
     
  France   
 
    General Motors Global Service Operations, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors Hellas S.A.   
     
  Greece   
 
    General Motors Holdings LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors India Private Limited   
     
  India   
 
    General Motors International Holdings, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors International Services Company SAS   
     
  Colombia   
 
    General Motors Investment Management Corporation   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors Investments Pty. Ltd.   
     
  Australia   
 
    General Motors Ireland   
     
  Ireland   
 
    General Motors Israel Ltd.   
     
  Israel   
 
    General Motors Italia S.r.l.   
     
  Italy   
 
    General Motors Korea, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors Limited   
     
  England   
 
    General Motors LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors Manufacturing Poland Sp. z o.o.   
     
  Poland   
 
    General Motors Nederland B.V.   
     
  Netherlands   
 
    General Motors New Zealand Pensions Limited   
     
  New Zealand   
 
    General Motors Norge AS   
     
  Norway   
 
    General Motors of Canada Limited (active)   
     
  Canada   
 
    General Motors Overseas Commercial Vehicle Corporation   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors Overseas Corporation (active)   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors Overseas Distribution Corporation   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors Peru S.A.   
     
  Peru   
 
    General Motors Poland Spolka, z o. o.   
     
  Poland   
 
    General Motors Portugal Lda.   
     
  Portugal   
 
    General Motors Powertrain (Thailand) Limited   
     
  Thailand   
 
    General Motors Powertrain - Europe S.r.l.   
     
  Italy   
 
    General Motors Powertrain - Germany GmbH   
     
  Germany   
 
    General Motors Powertrain - Hungary Ltd.   
     
  Hungary    

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY    
   AND SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES, AND AFFILIATES        OF THE REGISTRANT        AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010    

Company Name    
     
     State or   
   Sovereign Power       of Incorporation     

General Motors Powertrain - Kaiserslautern Germany GmbH   
     
  Germany   
 
    General Motors Powertrain - Uzbekistan CJSC   
     
  Uzbekistan   
 
    General Motors Powertrain - Austria GmbH   
     
  Austria   
 
    General Motors Research Corporation   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors South Africa (Pty) Limited   
     
  South Africa   
 
    General Motors Southeast Asia Operations Limited   
     
  Thailand   
 
    General Motors Strasbourg   
     
  France   
 
    General Motors Suisse S.A.   
     
  Switzerland   
 
    General Motors Taiwan Ltd.   
     
  Taiwan, Province of China   
 
    General Motors Technical Centre India Private Limited   
     
  India   
 
    General Motors Thailand Investments, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors Treasury Center, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors T rkiye Limited Sirketi   
     
  Turkey   
 
    General Motors U.S. Trading Corp.   
     
  Nevada   
 
    General Motors UK Limited   
     
  England   
 
    General Motors Uruguay, S.A.   
     
  Uruguay   
 
    General Motors Uzbekistan Closed Joint Stock Company   
     
  Uzbekistan   
 
    General Motors Venezolana, C.A.   
     
  Venezuela   
 
    General Motors Ventures LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    General Motors Warehousing and Trading (Shanghai) Co. Ltd.   
     
  China   
 
    General Motors-Holden s Sales Pty. Limited   
     
  Australia   
 
    General Sales Company of West Chester, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Genie Mecanique Zairois, S.A.R.L.   
     
  Congo, The Democratic Republic   
 
    Global Human Body Models Consortium, LLC   
     
  Michigan   
 
    Global Tooling Service Company Europe Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    GM (UK) Pension Trustees Limited   
     
  England   
 
    GM (UK) Unclassified Pension Trustees Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    GM - Isuzu Camiones Andinos de Colombia Ltda.   
     
  Colombia   
 
    GM - ISUZU Camiones Andinos del Ecuador GMICA Ecuador Cia. Ltda.   
     
  Ecuador   
 
    GM Administradora de Bens Ltda.   
     
  Brazil   
 
    GM APO Holdings, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM Auslandsprojekte GmbH   
     
  Germany   
 
    GM Auto World Korea Co.   
     
  Korea, Republic of   
 
    GM Automotive Services Belgium NV   
     
  Belgium   
 
    GM Automotive UK   
     
  England   
 
    GM Car Company LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM Components Holdings, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM Daewoo Auto   Technology Company   
     
  Korea, Republic of   
 
    GM Daewoo UK Limited   
     
  England   
 
    GM Eurometals, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM Europe Treasury Company AB   
     
  Sweden   
 
    GM Finance Co. Holdings LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM GEFS HOLDINGS (CHC4) ULC   
     
  Canada    

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY    
   AND SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES, AND AFFILIATES        OF THE REGISTRANT        AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010    

Company Name    
     
     State or   
   Sovereign Power       of Incorporation     

GM GEFS HOLDINGS CANADA ULC   
     
  Canada   
 
    GM Global Purchasing and Supply Chain Romania Srl   
     
    Romania    
 
    GM Global Technology Operations LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM Global Tooling Company, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM Holden Ltd.   
     
  Australia   
 
    GM International Sales Ltd.   
     
  Cayman Islands   
 
    GM Inversiones Santiago Limitada   
     
  Chile   
 
    GM Investment Trsutees Limited   
     
  England   
 
    GM Korea Co., Ltd.   
     
  Korea, Republic of   
 
    GM LAAM Holdings, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM Nigeria Limited   
     
  Nigeria   
 
    GM Overseas Funding, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM Personnel Services, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM Plats (Proprietary) Limited   
     
  South Africa   
 
    GM Preferred Finance Co. Holdings LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM Preferred Receivables LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM Purchasing Vauxhall UK Limited   
     
  England   
 
    GM Retirees Pension Trustees Limited   
     
  England   
 
    GM Subsystems Manufacturing, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM Supplier Receivables LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM Technologies, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM Trust GmbH   Co KG   
     
  Germany   
 
    GM Warranty LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM-AVTOVAZ CJSC   
     
  Russian Federation   
 
    GM-DI Leasing Corporation   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GM-Saab Communication GmbH   
     
  Switzerland   
 
    GM-UMI Technology Research and Development Ltd.   
     
  Israel   
 
    GMAC Auto Lease Purchase Corporation   
     
  Cayman Islands   
 
    GMAC Holding S.A. de C.V.   
     
  Mexico   
 
    GMAM Absolute Return Strategies Fund, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GMAM Real Estate I, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GMCH SP Private Equity II L.P.   
     
  Canada   
 
    GMEH Holding, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GMETR Trade Receivables LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GMOC Administrative Services Corporation   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GMODC Receivables Funding LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    GMODC Trade Receivables LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Grand Pointe Holdings, Inc.   
     
  Michigan   
 
    Grand Pointe Park Condominium Association   
     
  Michigan   
 
    H.S.H. Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Haines   Strange Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Hicom-Chevrolet, Sdn Bhd (ceased operations)   
     
  Malaysia   
 
    HOLDCORP S.A.   
     
  Ecuador   
 
    Holden Employees Superannuation Fund Pty Ltd   
     
  Australia   
 
    Holden New Zealand Limited   
     
  New Zealand    

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY    
   AND SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES, AND AFFILIATES        OF THE REGISTRANT        AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010    

Company Name    
     
     State or   
   Sovereign Power       of Incorporation     

HRL Laboratories, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Hydrogenics Corporation   
     
  Canada   
 
    H rouville Motors SARL   
     
  France   
 
    IBC Pension Trustees Limited   
     
  England   
 
    IBC Vehicles Limited   
     
  England   
 
    Inchcape (Exeter) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Industries Mecaniques Maghrebines, S.A.   
     
  Tunisia   
 
    Integrity Automotive Group, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    ISF Internationale Schule Frankfurt-Rhein-Main Gesch ftsf hrungsgesellschaft mbH   
     
  Germany   
 
    ISF Internationale Schule Frankfurt-Rhein-Main GmbH   Co. KG   
     
  Germany   
 
    ISPOL Holding B.V.   
     
  Netherlands   
 
    Isuzu Motors Polska Sp. z o.o.   
     
  Poland   
 
    Isuzu Truck South Africa (Pty.) Limited (ITSA)   
     
  South Africa   
 
    IUE-GM National Joint Skill Development and Training Committee   
     
  Ohio   
 
    Jeffery (Wandsworth) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Joe Morgan Chevrolet Cadillac, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    JS Folsom Automotive, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Koneyren, Inc.   
     
  Michigan   
 
    Lange (West End) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Las Cruces Automotive Group, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    LCV Platform Engineering Corp.   
     
  Japan   
 
    Lease Ownership Cooperative LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Lidlington Engineering Company, Ltd.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Long B each Acceptance Auto Receivables Trust 2007-A   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Long Beach Acceptance Auto Receivables Trust 2005-A   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Long Beach Acceptance Auto Receivables Trust 2005-B   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Long Beach Acceptance Auto Receivables Trust 2006-A   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Long Beach Acceptance Auto Receivables Trust 2006-B   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Long Beach Acceptance Corp.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Long Beach Acceptance Receivables Corp.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Long Beach Acceptance Receivables Corp. Warehouse I   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Lookers Birmingham Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    MAC International FZCO   
     
  United Arab Emirates   
 
    Mack Buick-GMC, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    MacLeods of Perth Limited   
     
  Scotland   
 
    Mangino Chevrolet, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Marshall of Ipswich Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Marshall of Peterborough Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Marshall of Stevenage Ltd   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Mascoma Corporation   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Metal Casting Technology, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Millbrook Pension Management Limited   
     
  England   
 
    Millbrook Proving Ground Limited   
     
  England   
 
    Milton Chevrolet, Inc. (Sobh-Locklear Chevrolet)   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Monetization of Carve-Out, LLC   
     
  Delaware    

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY    
   AND SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES, AND AFFILIATES        OF THE REGISTRANT        AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010    

Company Name    
     
     State or   
   Sovereign Power       of Incorporation     

Moran Cadillac - GMC, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Moran Chevrolet, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Motorbodies Luton Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Motors Holding LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Motors Holding San Fernando Valley, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Motors Investments (Duncan) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Motors Properties Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    MPL No. 1 Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Multi-Use Lease Entity Trust   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Murketts of Cambridge Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    NJDOI/GMAM Core Plus Real Estate Investment Program, L.P.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    NJDOI/GMAM CT High Grade Partners II, L.P.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    NJDOI/GMAM Opportunistic Real Estate Investment Program, L.P.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    North American New Cars, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Now Motor Retailing Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    OEConnection LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    OEConnection Manager Corp.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Omnibus BB Transportes, S. A.   
     
  Ecuador   
 
    OnStar Global Services Corporation   
     
  Delaware   
 
    OnStar, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Opel Danmark A/S   
     
  Denmark   
 
    Opel Eisenach GmbH   
     
  Germany   
 
    Opel Southeast Europe LLC   
     
  Hungary   
 
    Opel Special Vehicles GmbH   
     
  Germany   
 
    Opel Sverige AB   
     
  Sweden   
 
    P. T. Mesin Isuzu Indonesia   
     
  Indonesia   
 
    P.T. G M AutoWorld Indonesia   
     
  Indonesia   
 
    P.T. General Motors Indonesia   
     
  Indonesia   
 
    Pan Asia Technical Automotive Center Company, Ltd.   
     
  China   
 
    Parkwood Holdings Ltd.   
     
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Patrick (Durham) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Pearl (Crawley) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Performance Equity Management, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Peter Vardy (Perth) Limited   
     
  Scotland   
 
    PIMS Co.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Plan Automotor Ecuatoriano S.A. Planautomotor   
     
  Ecuador   
 
    Promark Global Advisors Limited   
     
  England   
 
    Promark Trust Bank, N.A.   
     
  New York   
 
    ProSTEP AG   
     
  Germany   
 
    Quantum Fuel Systems Technologies Worldwide, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    RAG BILDUNG Opel GmbH   
     
  Germany   
 
    Randstad WorkNet GmbH   
     
  Germany   
 
    Reeve (Derby) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Reg Vardy (VMC) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Renaissance Center Management Company   
     
  Michigan    

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY    
   AND SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES, AND AFFILIATES        OF THE REGISTRANT        AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010    

Company Name    
     
     State or   
   Sovereign Power       of Incorporation     

Renton Cadillac Pontiac GMC, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Retailer Guarantee Ltd.   
     
  Unknown   
 
    Riverfront Holdings III, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Riverfront Holdings Phase II, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Riverfront Holdings, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Ruedas de Aluminio, C.A.   
     
  Venezuela   
 
    Rumble (Bedworth) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    S.C. UNION MOTORS CAR SALES S.L.R.   
     
  Romania   
 
    Saab Automobile AB   
     
  Sweden   
 
    Saab Automobile Investering AB   
     
  Sweden   
 
    Saab GB Pension Plan Trustees Company Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Saab Great Britain Limited   
     
  England   
 
    SAIC General Motors Investment Limited   
     
  China   
 
    SAIC GM Wuling Automobile Company Limited   
     
  China   
 
    Sakti3, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Salmon Street Ltd.   
     
  Australia   
 
    San Fernando Valley Automotive, LLC   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Sarmiento 1113 S.A. (en liquidacion)   
     
  Argentina   
 
    Saturn County Bond Corporation   
     
  Delaware   
 
    SB (Helston) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Seward (Wessex) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Shanghai Automotive Industry Sales Co., Ltd.   
     
  China   
 
    Shanghai Chengxin Used Car Operation and Management Company Limited   
     
  China   
 
    Shanghai General Motors Corporation Ltd.   
     
  China   
 
    Shanghai GM (Shenyang) Norsom Motors Co. Ltd   
     
  China   
 
    Shanghai GM Dong Yue Motors Company Limited   
     
  China   
 
    Shanghai GM Dong Yue Powertrain Company Limited   
     
  China   
 
    Shanghai OnStar Telematics Co. Ltd.   
     
  China   
 
    Sherwoods (Darlington) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Sirius XM Radio Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Sistemas de Compra Programada Chevrolet, C.A.   
     
  Venezuela   
 
    Skurrays Limited   
     
  England   
 
    Slaters (GM) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Slaughter Motor Company, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Smokey Point Buick Pontiac GMC, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Southern (Merthyr) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Superbroad Limited   
     
  United Kingdom   
 
    Superior Chevrolet, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    TCO No.1 Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Thurlow Nunn (JV) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Todd Wenzel Chevrolet, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Trimarco Pontiac-Buick-GMC, Inc. (Gary Trimarco Automotive)   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Truck and Bus Engineering U.K., Limited   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Tustain Motors Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    United States Advanced Battery Consortium, LLC   
     
  Michigan    

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY    
   AND SUBSIDIARIES, JOINT VENTURES, AND AFFILIATES        OF THE REGISTRANT        AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2010    

Company Name    
     
     State or   
   Sovereign Power       of Incorporation     

United States Automotive Materials Partnership, LLC   
     
  Michigan   
 
    United States Council for Automotive Research LLC   
     
  Michigan   
 
    Universal Motors Israel Ltd.   
     
  Israel   
 
    Uptown Chevrolet-Cadillac, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Vauxhall Motors Limited   
     
  England   
 
    Vehicle Asset Universal Leasing Trust   
     
  Delaware   
 
    Vehicle Recycling Partnership, LLC   
     
  Michigan   
 
    Vertu Motors (VMC) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    VHC Sub-Holdings (UK)   
     
  England   
 
    Vickers (Lakeside) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Vietnam-Daewoo Motor Co., Ltd   
     
  Viet Nam   
 
    Vision Motors Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    VM Holdings B.V.   
     
  Netherlands   
 
    VM Motori S.p.A.   
     
  Italy   
 
    VM North America, Inc.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    VMO Properties Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    VRP Venture Capital Rheinland-Pfalz Nr. 2 GmbH   Co. KG   
     
  Germany   
 
    W. Grose Northampton Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Wheatcroft (Worksop) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Whitehead (Rochdale) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Whitmore s of Edenbridge Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Wilson   Co. (Motor Sales) Limited   
     
  England and Wales   
 
    Wind Point Partners III, L.P.   
     
  Delaware   
 
    WRE, Inc.   
     
  Michigan       Total - 471   

</EX-21>

<EX-24>
 9
 dex24.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY FOR DIRECTORS OF GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY

Power of Attorney for Directors of General Motors Company 

Exhibit 24        SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.       

GENERAL MOTORS COMPANY  
  (Registrant)    

Date: March 1, 2011  
     
  By:  
     
    /s/ DANIEL F. AKERSON  
  Daniel F. Akerson     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer        Pursuant to the
requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on this 1st day of March 2011 by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated, including a majority of the directors.

Signature    
      
     Title     

/s/ DANIEL F. AKERSON   
      
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
 
  (Daniel F. Akerson)  

/s/ CHRISTOPHER P. LIDDELL   
      
  Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer   
 
  (Christopher P. Liddell)  

/s/ NICK S. CYPRUS   
      
  Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer   
 
  (Nick S. Cyprus)  

/s/ DAVID BONDERMAN   
      
  Director   
 
  (David Bonderman)  

/s/ ERROLL B. DAVIS, JR.   
      
  Director   
 
  (Erroll B. Davis, Jr.)  

/s/ STEPHEN J. GIRSKY   
      
  Director   
 
  (Stephen J. Girsky)  

/s/ E. NEVILLE ISDELL   
      
  Director   
 
  (E. Neville Isdell)  

/s/ ROBERT D. KREBS   
      
  Director   
 
  (Robert D. Krebs)  

/s/ PHILIP A. LASKAWY   
      
  Director   
 
  (Philip A. Laskawy)  

/s/ KATHRYN V. MARINELLO   
      
  Director   
 
  (Kathryn V. Marinello)  

/s/ PATRICIA F. RUSSO   
      
  Director   
 
  (Patricia F. Russo)  

/s/ CAROL M. STEPHENSON   
      
  Director   
 
  (Carol M. Stephenson)  

/s/ DR. CYNTHIA A. TELLES   
      
  Director   
 
  (Dr. Cynthia A. Telles)  

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 dex311.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 302 Certification of the Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 31.1        CERTIFICATION       I, Daniel F. Akerson, certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of General Motors Company;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based
on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the Audit Committee of the registrant s Board of Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   

/s/    DANIEL F. AKERSON    
 
  Daniel F. Akerson   
 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    
   Date:
March 1, 2011   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 dex312.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 302 Certification of the Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 31.2        CERTIFICATION       I, Christopher P. Liddell, certify that:   
  1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of General Motors Company;   
  2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary
to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting
that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s
internal control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based
on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the Audit Committee of the registrant s Board of Directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   
  a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.   

/s/    CHRISTOPHER P. LIDDELL    
 
  Christopher P. Liddell   
 
  Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer    
   Date:
March 1, 2011   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 12
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350

Certification of the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 

Exhibit 32.1        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the
Annual Report of General Motors Company (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Daniel F. Akerson,
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of my knowledge:   
  1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
     2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition
and results of operations of the Company.        

/s/    DANIEL F. AKERSON    
 
  Daniel F. Akerson   
 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    
   Date:
March 1, 2011   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 13
 dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350

Certification of the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350 

Exhibit 32.2        CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the
Annual Report of General Motors Company (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 31, 2010 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Christopher P. Liddell,
Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of my knowledge:   
  1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and
     2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition
and results of operations of the Company.        

/s/    CHRISTOPHER P. LIDDELL    
 
  Christopher P. Liddell   
 
  Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer    
   Date:
March 1, 2011   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-99.1>
 14
 dex991.htm
 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF ALLY FINANCIAL INC.

Consolidated Financial Statements of Ally Financial Inc. 

Exhibit 99.1         Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm      To the Board
of Directors and Shareholders of Ally Financial Inc.:      We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheet of
Ally Financial Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related Consolidated Statements of Income, Changes in Equity, and Cash Flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2010. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of the Company at December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.       

/s/ D ELOITTE    T OUCHE  LLP    
 
  Deloitte   Touche LLP   

Detroit, Michigan   
 
  February 25, 2011    
         1   

Consolidated Statement of Income   
  Ally Financial
Inc.       Form 10-K         
   
    The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.   
         2   

Consolidated Balance Sheet   
  Ally Financial
Inc.       Form 10-K         
    The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.   
         3   

Consolidated Balance Sheet      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
        The assets of consolidated variable interest entities that
can be used only to settle obligations of the consolidated variable interest entities and the liabilities of these entities for which creditors (or beneficial interest holders) do not have recourse to our general credit at
December 31, 2010, were as follows.       
    The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.   
         4   

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity   
  Ally Financial
Inc.       Form 10-K         
   
    Statement continues on the next page.   
         5   

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

(a)  
  Relates to the adoption of ASC Topic 820,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures , which increased retained earnings by $23 million and the
adoption of ASC Topic 825,  Financial Instruments , which decreased retained earnings by $178 million.     

(b)  
  Refer to Note 26 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail.     

(c)  
  Effective June 30, 2009, we converted from a Delaware limited liability company into a Delaware corporation. Each unit of each class of common membership
interest issued and outstanding immediately prior to the conversion was converted into an equivalent number of shares of common stock with substantially the same rights and preferences as the common membership interests. Upon conversion, holders of
our preferred membership interests also received an equivalent number of preferred stock with substantially the same rights and preferences as the former preferred membership interests.     

(d)  
  Relates to the adoption of ASU 2009-17,  Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities . Refer to Note 1
for additional information.     

(e)  
  Refer to Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further detail.     

(f)  
  Represents a reduction of the estimated payment accrued for tax distributions as a result of the completion of the GMAC LLC U.S. Return of Partnership Income
for the tax period January 1, 2009, through June 30, 2009. Refer to Note 24 to the Consolidated Financial Statement for further details.        The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.   
         6   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows   
  Ally Financial
Inc.       Form 10-K         
   
    Statement continues on the next page.   
         7   

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

(a)  
  The amounts for the year ended December 31, 2010, are net of cash and cash equivalents of $1.2 billion of business units at the time of disposition.

(b)  
  Cash flows of operations held-for-sale are reflected within operating, investing, and financing activities in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. The cash balance
of these operations are reported as assets of operations held-for-sale on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.     

(c)  
  Relates to the adoption of ASU 2009-17,  Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities . Refer to Note 1
for additional information.     

(d)  
  Represents long-term debt exchanged for preferred interests in 2008.        The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements.   
         8   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
  Ally Financial
Inc.       Form 10-K         

1.   
   Description of Business and Significant Accounting Policies         Ally Financial Inc. (formerly GMAC Inc. and referred to herein as Ally, we, our, or us) is a leading, independent, globally diversified, financial services firm with $172 billion in assets and
operations in 37 countries. Founded in 1919, we are a leading automotive financial services company with over 90 years experience providing a broad array of financial products and services to automotive dealers and their customers. We are also
one of the largest residential mortgage companies in the United States. We became a bank holding company on December 24, 2008, under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the BHC Act). Our banking subsidiary,
Ally Bank, is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Ally Financial Inc. and a leading franchise in the growing direct (online and telephonic) banking market, with $33.9 billion of deposits at December 31, 2010.   
   Residential Capital, LLC       Residential Capital, LLC (ResCap), one of our mortgage subsidiaries, was negatively impacted by the events and conditions in the mortgage banking industry and the broader economy. The
market deterioration led to fewer sources of, and significantly reduced levels of, liquidity available to finance ResCap s operations. ResCap is highly leveraged relative to its cash flow and previously recognized credit and valuation losses
resulting in a significant deterioration in capital. ResCap s consolidated tangible net worth, as defined, was $846 million at December 31, 2010, and ResCap remained in compliance with all of its consolidated tangible net worth
covenants. For this purpose, consolidated tangible net worth is defined as ResCap s consolidated equity excluding intangible assets. There continues to be a risk that ResCap may not be able to meet its debt service obligations, may default on
its financial debt covenants due to insufficient capital, and/or may be in a negative liquidity position in future periods.   
  ResCap actively manages its liquidity and capital positions and is continually working on initiatives to address its debt covenant
compliance and liquidity needs including debt maturing in the next twelve months and other risks and uncertainties. ResCap s initiatives could include, but are not limited to, the following: continuing to work with key credit providers to
optimize all available liquidity options; possible further reductions in assets and other restructuring activities; focusing production on conforming and government-insured residential mortgage loans; exploring strategic alternatives such as
alliances, joint ventures, and other transactions with third parties with respect to certain ResCap assets and businesses; and continued exploration of opportunities for funding and capital support from Ally and its affiliates. The outcomes of most
of these initiatives are to a great extent outside of ResCap s control resulting in increased uncertainty as to their successful execution.      During 2009 and 2010, we performed a strategic review of our mortgage business. As a result of this, we effectively exited the European mortgage market through the sale of our U.K. and continental
Europe operations. The sale of these operations was completed on October 1, 2010. Certain components of the sale were completed on September 30, 2010. Refer to Note 2 for additional information on the sale. We also completed
the sale of certain higher-risk legacy mortgage assets and settled representation and warranty claims with certain counterparties. The ongoing focus of our Mortgage Origination and Servicing operations will be predominately the origination of
conforming and government-insured residential mortgages and mortgage servicing. While the opportunities for further risk mitigation remain, the risk in our Mortgage Legacy Portfolio and Other operations has been materially reduced as compared to
recent levels.      In the future, Ally and ResCap may take additional actions with respect to ResCap as each party deems
appropriate. These actions may include Ally providing or declining to provide additional liquidity and capital support for ResCap; refinancing or restructuring some or all of ResCap s existing debt; the purchase or sale of ResCap debt
securities in the public or private markets for cash or other consideration; entering into derivative or other hedging or similar transactions with respect to ResCap or its debt securities; Ally purchasing assets from ResCap; or undertaking
corporate transactions such as a tender offer or exchange offer for some or all of ResCap s outstanding debt securities, a merger, sale, asset sales, consolidation, spin-off, distribution, or other business combination or reorganization or
similar action with respect to all or part of ResCap and/or its affiliates. In this context, Ally and ResCap typically consider a number of factors to the extent applicable and appropriate including, without limitation, the financial condition,
results of operations, and prospects of Ally and ResCap; ResCap s ability to obtain third-party financing; tax considerations; the current and anticipated future trading price levels of ResCap s debt instruments; conditions in the mortgage
banking industry and general economic conditions; other investment and business opportunities available to Ally and/or ResCap; and any nonpublic information that ResCap may possess or that Ally receives from ResCap.   
         9   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   ResCap remains heavily dependent on Ally and its affiliates for funding and capital
support, and there can be no assurance that Ally or its affiliates will continue such actions or that Ally will choose to execute any further strategic transactions with respect to ResCap, or that any transactions undertaken will be successful.
     Although our continued actions through various funding and capital initiatives demonstrate support for ResCap, there are
currently no commitments or assurances for future capital support. Consequently, there remains substantial doubt about ResCap s ability to continue as a going concern. Should we no longer continue to support the capital or liquidity needs of
ResCap or should ResCap be unable to successfully execute other initiatives, it would have a material adverse effect on ResCap s business, results of operations, and financial position.   
  Ally has extensive financing and hedging arrangements with ResCap that could be at risk of nonpayment if ResCap were to file for
bankruptcy. At December 31, 2010, we had $1.9 billion in secured financing arrangements with ResCap of which $1.5 billion in loans was utilized. Amounts outstanding under the secured financing and hedging arrangements fluctuate.
If ResCap were to file for bankruptcy, ResCap s repayments of its financing facilities, including those with us, could be slower. In addition, we could be an unsecured creditor of ResCap to the extent that the proceeds from the sale of our
collateral are insufficient to repay ResCap s obligations to us. It is possible that other ResCap creditors would seek to recharacterize our loans to ResCap as equity contributions or to seek equitable subordination of our claims so that the
claims of other creditors would have priority over our claims. In addition, should ResCap file for bankruptcy, our $846 million investment related to ResCap s equity position would likely be reduced to zero. If a ResCap bankruptcy were to
occur and a substantial amount of our credit exposure is not repaid to us, it would have an adverse impact on our near-term net income and capital position, but we do not believe it would have a materially adverse impact on Ally s consolidated
financial position over the longer term.       Consolidation and Basis of Presentation    
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include our accounts and accounts of our majority-owned subsidiaries after eliminating all
significant intercompany balances and transactions and include all variable interest entities (VIEs) in which we are the primary beneficiary. Refer to Note 11 for further details on our VIEs. Our accounting and reporting policies conform
to accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP).      We operate our international
subsidiaries in a similar manner as we operate in the United States of America (U.S. or United States), subject to local laws or other circumstances that may cause us to modify our procedures accordingly. The financial statements of
subsidiaries that operate outside of the United States generally are measured using the local currency as the functional currency. All assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries (excluding Venezuela due to hyperinflation) are translated into
U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates. The resulting translation adjustments are recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of equity. Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates prevailing during
the reporting period.      Certain amounts in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the current presentation.
      Use of Estimates and Assumptions       The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and that affect income and expenses during the reporting period and related disclosures. In developing the estimates and assumptions, management uses all available evidence; however, actual results could differ because of
uncertainties associated with estimating the amounts, timing, and likelihood of possible outcomes.       Significant Accounting Policies
       Cash and Cash Equivalents       Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand and certain highly liquid investment securities with maturities of three months or less from the date of purchase. Cash and cash equivalents that have
restrictions on our ability to withdraw the funds are included in other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. The book value of cash equivalents approximates fair value because of the short maturities of these instruments. Certain securities
with original maturities less than 90 days that are held as a portion of longer-term investment portfolios, primarily held by our Insurance operations, are classified as investment securities.   
         10   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Securities       Our portfolio of securities includes government securities, corporate bonds, asset- and mortgage-backed securities, interests in securitization trusts, equity securities, and other investments. Securities
are classified based on management s intent. Our trading securities primarily consist of retained and purchased interests in certain securitizations. The retained interests are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in
current period earnings. Debt securities that management has the intent and ability to hold to maturity are classified as held-to-maturity and reported at amortized cost. All other securities are classified as available-for-sale and carried at fair
value with unrealized gains and losses included in accumulated other comprehensive income or loss, a component of equity, on an after-tax basis. Premiums and discounts on debt securities are amortized as an adjustment to investment yield generally
over the contractual term of the security. We employ a systematic methodology that considers available evidence in evaluating potential other-than-temporary impairment of our investments classified as available-for-sale or held-to-maturity. If the
cost of an investment exceeds its fair value, we evaluate, among other factors, the magnitude and duration of the decline in fair value. We also evaluate the financial health of and business outlook for the issuer, the performance of the underlying
assets for interests in securitized assets, and our intent and ability to hold the investment.      Once a decline in fair value
of an equity security is determined to be other-than-temporary, an impairment charge for the credit component is recorded to other gain (loss) on investments, net, in our Consolidated Statement of Income, and a new cost basis in the investment is
established. Noncredit component losses of a debt security are recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) when we do not intend to sell the security or is not more likely than not to have to sell the security prior to the security s
anticipated recovery. Noncredit component losses are amortized over the remaining life of the debt security by offsetting the recorded value of the asset.      Realized gains and losses on investment securities are reported in other gain (loss) on investments, net, and are determined using the specific identification method.   
  For detail on trading securities refer to Note 6 and for detail on investment securities refer to Note 7.   
   Loans Held-for-sale    
  Loans held-for-sale may include consumer automobile, consumer mortgage, and commercial receivables and loans. Loans held-for-sale are
carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value. Loan origination fees, as well as discount points and incremental direct origination costs, are initially recorded as an adjustment of the cost of the loan and are reflected in the gain or loss
on sale of loans when sold. Fair value is determined by type of loan and is generally based on contractually established commitments from investors, current investor yield requirements, current secondary market pricing, or cash flow models using
market-based yield requirements. Certain of our domestic consumer mortgages are reported at fair value as a result of the fair value option election. Refer to Note 8 for details on loans held-for-sale and Note 27 for details on fair value
measurement.       Finance Receivables and Loans       Finance receivables and loans are reported at the principal amount outstanding, net of unearned income, premiums and discounts, and allowances. Unearned income, which includes deferred origination fees
reduced by origination costs and unearned rate support received from an automotive manufacturer on certain automotive loans, is amortized over the contractual life of the related finance receivable or loan using the interest method. Loan commitment
fees are generally deferred and amortized over the commitment period. For detail on finance receivables and loans, refer to Note 9.      We classify finance receivables and loans between loans held-for-sale and loans held-for-investment based on management s assessment of our intent and ability to hold loans for the foreseeable future
or until maturity. Management s intent and ability with respect to certain loans may change from time to time depending on a number of factors including economic, liquidity, and capital conditions. Management s view of the foreseeable
future is generally a twelve-month period based on the longest reasonably reliable net income, liquidity, and capital forecast period.      Our portfolio segments are based on the level at which we develop and document our methodology for determining the allowance for loan losses. Additionally, the classes of finance receivables are based on
several factors including the method   
         11   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

for monitoring and assessing credit risk, the method of measuring carrying value, and the risk characteristics of the finance receivable. Based on an evaluation of our process for developing the
allowance for loan losses including the nature and extent of exposure to credit risk arising from finance receivables, we have determined our portfolio segments to be consumer automobile, consumer mortgage, and commercial.   

Consumer automobile     Consists of retail automobile financing for new and used vehicles.      

Consumer mortgage     Consists of the following classes of finance receivables.      

1st Mortgage      Consists of residential mortgage loans that are secured in a first-lien position and have priority over all
other liens or claims on the respective collateral.          

Home equity      Consists of residential home equity loans or mortgages with a subordinate-lien position.

Commercial       Consists of the following classes of finance receivables.      

Commercial and Industrial           

Automobile    Consists of financing operations to fund dealer purchases of new and used vehicle through wholesale or floorplan
financing. Additional commercial offerings include automotive dealer term loans, revolving lines of credit, and dealer fleet financing.          

Mortgage    Consists primarily of warehouse lending.      

Other    Consists of senior secured commercial lending and our resort finance portfolio. We sold our resort finance portfolio during
the third quarter of 2010.          

Commercial Real Estate           

Automobile    Consists of term loans to finance dealership land and buildings.      

Mortgage    Related primarily to activities within our business capital group, which provides financing to residential land developers
and homebuilders. These activities are in wind-down and do not represent a material component of our business.      
    Nonaccrual Loans     
  Revenue recognition is suspended when all classes of finance receivables and loans are placed on nonaccrual status. Generally, all classes
of finance receivables and loans are placed on nonaccrual status when principal or interest has been delinquent for 90 days or when determined not to be probable of full collection. Exceptions include commercial real estate loans that are
placed on nonaccrual status when delinquent for 60 days. Revenue accrued, but not collected, at the date finance receivables and loans are placed on nonaccrual status is reversed and subsequently recognized only to the extent it is received in
cash or until it qualifies for return to accrual status. However, where there is doubt regarding the ultimate collectability of loan principal, all cash received is applied to reduce the carrying value of such loans. Finance receivables and loans
are restored to accrual status only when contractually current and the collection of future payments is reasonably assured. Typically, this requires a sustained period of repayment performance of at least six consecutive months by the borrower.
     Generally, we recognize all classes of loans as past due when they are 30 days delinquent.   
    Impaired Loans     
  All classes of commercial loans are considered impaired when we determine it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due
according to the terms of the loan agreement. Income recognition is consistent with that of nonaccrual loans discussed above. For collateral dependent loans, if the recorded investment in impaired loans exceeds the fair value of the collateral, a
valuation allowance is established as a component of the allowance for loan losses.   
         12   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   For all classes of consumer loans, impaired loans are loans that have been modified in
troubled debt restructurings. Troubled debt restructurings typically result from our loss mitigation activities and could include rate reductions, principal forgiveness, forbearance, and other actions intended to minimize the economic loss and to
avoid foreclosure or repossession of collateral. A troubled debt restructuring involving only a modification of terms requires that the restructured loan be measured at the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the effective
interest rate at the time of modification, as based on the original loan terms. Alternately, the loan may be measured for impairment based on the fair value of the underlying collateral if the loan is collateral dependent. If the value of the loan
is less than the recorded investment in the loan, we recognize an impairment by creating a valuation allowance or by adjusting an existing valuation allowance for the impaired loan. For loans held-for-investment that are not carried at fair value
and are troubled debt restructurings, impairment is measured based on the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s effective interest rate prior to the restructuring. Loans with insignificant delays or
insignificant short falls in the amount of payments expected not to be collected are not considered to be impaired.      Our
policy is to place all modified loans, including troubled debt restructured loans on nonaccrual status until the loan has been brought fully current, the collection of contractual principal and interest is reasonably assured, and six consecutive
months of repayment performance is achieved.        Charge-offs     
  As a general rule, consumer automobile loans are written down to estimated collateral value, less costs to sell, once a loan becomes
120 days past due; and second-lien consumer mortgage loans within our home equity class are charged off at 180 days past due. Consumer first-lien mortgage loans, which consists of our entire 1st mortgage class and a subset of our home
equity class that are secured by real estate are written down to estimated collateral value, less costs to sell, once a mortgage loan becomes 180 days past due. Consumer automobile and second-lien consumer mortgage loans in bankruptcy that are
60 days past due are fully charged off within 60 days of receipt of notification of filing from the bankruptcy court. First-lien consumer mortgage loans in bankruptcy that are 60 days past due are written down to estimated collateral
value, less costs to sell, within 60 days of receipt of notification of filing from the bankruptcy court. Regardless of other timelines noted within this policy, loans are considered collateral dependent at the time foreclosure proceedings
begin and are charged off to the fair value of the underlying collateral, less costs to sell at that time.      Commercial loans
are individually evaluated and where collectability of the recorded balance is in doubt are written down to fair value of the collateral less costs to sell. Generally, all commercial loans, both collateral and noncollateral dependent, are charged
off when they are 360 days or more past due.       Allowance for Loan Losses    
  The allowance for loan losses (the allowance) is management s estimate of incurred losses in the lending portfolios. We determine the
amount of the allowance required for each of our portfolio segments based on its relative risk characteristics. The evaluation of these factors for both consumer and commercial finance receivables and loans involves complex, subjective judgments.
Additions to the allowance are charged to current period earnings through the provision for loan losses; amounts determined to be uncollectible are charged directly against the allowance, net of amounts recovered on previously charged-off accounts.
     The allowance is comprised of two components: reserves established for specific loans evaluated as impaired and
portfolio-level reserves established for large groups of typically smaller balance homogenous loans that are collectively evaluated for impairment. We evaluate the adequacy of the allowance based on the combined total of these two components.
Determining the appropriateness of the allowance is complex and requires judgment by management about the effect of matters that are inherently uncertain. It is possible that others, given the same information, may at any point in time reach
different reasonable conclusions.      Measurement of impairment for specific reserves is generally determined on a loan by loan
basis. An individual loan should be considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due (both principal and interest) according to the contractual terms of the
agreement. Loans determined to be specifically impaired are measured based on the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s effective interest rate, an observable market price, or the estimated fair value of the
collateral less estimated costs to sell, whichever is   
         13   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

determined to be the most appropriate. When these measurement values are lower than the carrying value of that loan, impairment is recognized. Loans that are deemed not to be individually
impaired are pooled with other loans with similar risk characteristics for evaluation of impairment for the portfolio-level allowance.      For the purpose of calculating portfolio-level reserves, we have determined logical grouping of loans into three portfolio segments: consumer automobile, consumer mortgage, and commercial. The allowance
consists of the combination of a quantitative assessment component based on statistical models, a retrospective evaluation of actual loss information to loss forecasts, and a qualitative component based on management judgment. Management takes into
consideration relevant qualitative factors, including external and internal trends such as the impacts of changes in underwriting standards, collections and account management effectiveness, geographic concentrations, and economic events, among
other factors, that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the quantitative assessment component. All qualitative adjustments are adequately documented, reviewed and approved through our established risk governance processes. Refer to Note 9 for
detail on the allowance for loan losses.        Consumer Loans     
  Our consumer automobile and consumer mortgage portfolio segments are reviewed for impairment based on an analysis of loans that are
grouped into common risk categories (i.e., past due status, loan or lease type, collateral type, borrower, industry or geographic concentrations). We perform periodic and systematic detailed reviews of our lending portfolios to identify inherent
risks and to assess the overall collectability of those portfolios. Loss models are utilized for these portfolios, which consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, current economic conditions,
anticipated repossessions or foreclosures based on portfolio trends, delinquencies and credit scores, and expected loss factors by loan type.   
   Consumer Automobile Portfolio Segment       The allowance for loan losses within the consumer automobile portfolio segment is calculated by leveraging proprietary statistical models and other risk indicators to pools of loans with similar risk
characteristics, including credit bureau score, loan-to-value and vehicle type, to arrive at an estimate of incurred losses in the portfolio. These statistical loss forecasting models are utilized to estimate incurred losses and consider a variety
of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, estimated defaults based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, and general economic and business trends. These statistical models predict forecasted losses inherent in the portfolio
based on both vintage and migration analyses.      The forecasted losses consider historical factors such as frequency (the number
of contracts that we expect to default) and loss severity (the expected loss on a per vehicle basis). The loss severity within the consumer automobile portfolio segment is impacted by the market values of vehicles that are repossessed. Vehicle
market values are affected by numerous factors including the condition of the vehicle upon repossession, the overall price and volatility of gasoline or diesel fuel, consumer preference related to specific vehicle segments, and other factors.
     The quantitative assessment component is supplemented with qualitative reserves based on management s determination that
such adjustments provide a better estimate of credit losses. This qualitative assessment takes into consideration relevant internal and external factors that have occurred but are not yet reflected in the forecasted losses and may affect the credit
quality of the portfolio.      Our methodology and policies with respect to the allowance for loan losses for our consumer
automobile portfolio segment did not change during 2010.       Consumer Mortgage Portfolio Segment    
  The allowance for loan losses within the consumer mortgage portfolio segment is calculated by leveraging proprietary statistical models
based on pools of loans with similar risk characteristics, including credit bureau score, loan-to-value, loan age, documentation type, product type, and loan purpose, to arrive at an estimate of incurred losses in the portfolio. These statistical
loss forecasting models are utilized to estimate incurred losses and consider a variety of factors including, but not limited to, historical loss experience, estimated foreclosures or defaults based on portfolio trends, delinquencies, and general
economic and business trends.   
         14   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The forecasted losses are statistically derived based on a suite of loan-level behavior
models linked into a state transition modeling framework. This transition framework predicts various stages of delinquency, default, and voluntary prepayment over the course of the life of the loan. The transition probability is a function of the
loan and borrower characteristics and economic variables and considers historical factors such as frequency (the number of contracts that we except to default) and loss severity (the expected loss on a per property basis). When a default event is
predicted, a severity model is applied to estimate future loan losses. The loss severity within the consumer mortgage portfolio segment is impacted by the market values of foreclosed properties, which is affected by numerous factors, including
geographic considerations and the condition of the foreclosed property.      The quantitative assessment component is supplemented
with qualitative reserves based on management s determination that such adjustments provide a better estimate of credit losses. This qualitative assessment takes into consideration relevant internal and external factors that have occurred but
are not yet reflected in the forecasted losses and may affect the credit quality of the portfolio.      Our methodology and
policies with respect to the allowance for loan losses for our consumer mortgage portfolio segment did not change during 2010.   
    Commercial        The
allowance for loan losses within the commercial portfolio is comprised of reserves established for specific loans evaluated as impaired and portfolio-level reserves based on nonimpaired loans grouped into pools based on similar risk characteristics
and collectively evaluated.      A loan is considered impaired when it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts
due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement based on current information and events. These loans are primarily evaluated individually and are risk-rated based on borrower, collateral, and industry-specific information that
management believes is relevant in determining the occurrence of a loss event and measuring impairment. Management establishes specific allowances for commercial loans determined to be individually impaired based on the present value of expected
future cash flows, discounted at the loan s effective interest rate, observable market price or the fair value of collateral, whichever is determined to be the most appropriate. Estimated costs to sell or realize the value of the collateral on
a discounted basis are included in the impairment measurement, when appropriate.      Nonimpaired loans are grouped into pools
based on similar risk characteristics and collectively evaluated. Our risk rating models use historical loss experience, concentrations, current economic conditions, and performance trends. The commercial historical loss experience is updated
quarterly to incorporate the most recent data reflective of the current economic environment. The determination of the allowance is influenced by numerous assumptions and many factors that may materially affect estimates of loss, including
volatility of loss given default, probability of default, and rating migration. In assessing the risk rating of a particular loan, several factors are considered including an evaluation of historical and current information involving subjective
assessments and interpretations. In addition, the allowance related to the commercial portfolio segment is influenced by estimated recoveries from automotive manufacturers relative to guarantees or agreements with them to repurchase vehicles used as
collateral to secure the loans.      The quantitative assessment component is supplemented with qualitative reserves based on
management s determination that such adjustments provide a better estimate of credit losses. This qualitative assessment takes into consideration relevant internal and external factors that have occurred and may affect the credit quality of the
portfolio.      Our methodology and policies with respect to the allowance for loan losses for our commercial portfolio segment
did not change during 2010.       Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities    
  We securitize, sell, and service consumer automobile loans, operating leases, wholesale loans, and consumer mortgage loans. Securitization
transactions typically involve the use of variable interest entities and are accounted for either as sales or secured financings. Economic interests in the securitized and sold assets are generally retained in the form of senior or subordinated
interests, interest- or principal-only strips, cash reserve accounts, residual interests, and servicing rights.   
         15   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   In order to conclude whether or not a variable interest entity is required to be
consolidated, careful consideration and judgment must be given to the continuing involvement with the variable interest entity. Subsequent to the implementation of ASU 2009-17 on January 1, 2010, in circumstances where we have both the power to
direct the activities of the entity that most significantly impact the entity s performance and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the entity that could be significant, we would conclude that we would
consolidate the entity, which would also preclude us from recording an accounting sale on the transaction. In the case of a consolidated variable interest entity, the accounting is consistent with a secured financing, i.e., we continue to carry the
loans and we record the securitized debt on our balance sheet. Further, there is no specific accounting record of our economic interests, but rather, they are captured as the difference between the loan and debt accounting.   
  In transactions where either one or both of the power or economic criteria mentioned above are not met, we then must determine whether or
not we achieve a sale for accounting purposes. In order to achieve a sale for accounting purposes, the assets being transferred must be legally isolated, not be constrained by restrictions from further transfer, and be deemed to be beyond our
control. If we were to fail any of the three criteria for accounting sale, the accounting would be consistent with the preceding paragraph (i.e., a secured borrowing). However, if we meet the criteria, the transaction would be recorded as a
sale, and the variable interest entity would not be consolidated, refer to Note 11 for discussion on variable interest entities.      Prior to the implementation of ASU 2009-17, many of our securitization were performed utilizing qualifying special purpose entities, which were exempt from consideration for consolidation so long as the
transaction would otherwise qualify as a sale. Therefore, these transactions were recorded as sales. Additionally, the gain or loss on sale was dependent on the previous carrying amount of the assets involved in the transfer and were allocated
between the assets sold and the retained interests based on relative fair values except for certain servicing assets and liabilities, which were initially recorded at fair value on the date of the sale.   
  Subsequent to the implementation of ASU 2009-17, gains or losses on off-balance sheet securitizations take into consideration the fair
value of the retained interests including the value of certain servicing assets or liabilities, which are initially recorded at fair value at the date of sale. The estimate of the fair value of the retained interests and servicing requires us to
exercise significant judgment about the timing and amount of future cash flows from the interests. Refer to the Note 27 for a discussion of fair value estimates.      Gains or losses on off-balance sheet securitizations and sales are reported in gain (loss) on mortgage and automotive loans, net, in our Consolidated Statement of Income for consumer automobile loans,
wholesale loans, and consumer mortgage loans. Declines in the fair value of retained interests below the carrying amount are reflected in other comprehensive income, a component of equity, or as other (loss) gain on investments, net, in our
Consolidated Statement of Income if such declines are determined to be other than temporary or if the interests are classified as trading. Retained interests, as well as any purchased securities, are generally included in available-for-sale
investment securities, trading investment securities, or other assets. Designation as available-for-sale or trading depends on management s intent. Securities that are noncertificated and cash reserve accounts related to securitizations are
included in other assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.      We retain servicing responsibilities for all of our consumer
automobile loan, operating lease, and wholesale loan securitizations and for the majority of our consumer mortgage loan securitizations. We may receive servicing fees based on the securitized loan balances and certain ancillary fees, all of which
are reported in servicing fees in the Consolidated Statement of Income. We also retain the right to service the consumer mortgage loans sold in securitization transactions involving the Federal National Mortgage Association (Fannie Mae), the Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (Freddie Mac), and the Government National Mortgage Association (Ginnie Mae) (collectively the Government-sponsored Enterprises or GSEs) and private investors. We also serve as the collateral manager in the
securitizations of commercial investment securities.      Whether on or off balance sheet, the investors in the securitization
trusts generally have no recourse to our other assets outside of customary market representation and warranty repurchase provisions.   
   Mortgage Servicing Rights    
  Primary servicing rights represent our right to service consumer residential mortgages securitized by us or through the GSEs and
third-party whole-loan sales. Primary servicing involves the collection of payments from individual borrowers and   
         16   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

the distribution of these payments to the investors or master servicer. Master-servicing rights represent our right to service mortgage- and asset-backed securities and whole-loan packages issued
for investors. Master servicing involves the collection of borrower payments from primary servicers and the distribution of those funds to investors in mortgage- and asset-backed securities and whole-loans packages. We also purchase and sell primary
and master-servicing rights through transactions with other market participants.      We capitalize the value expected to be
realized from performing specified mortgage servicing activities for others as mortgage servicing rights (MSRs). These capitalized servicing rights are purchased or retained upon sale or securitization of mortgage loans. MSRs are not recorded on
securitizations accounted for as secured financings.      We measure all mortgage servicing assets and liabilities at fair value.
We define our servicing rights based on both the availability of market inputs and the manner in which we manage the risks of our servicing assets and liabilities. We leverage all available relevant market data to determine the fair value of our
recognized servicing assets and liabilities.      Since quoted market prices for MSRs are not readily available, we estimate the
fair value of MSRs by determining the present value of future expected cash flows using modeling techniques that incorporate management s best estimates of key variables including expected cash flows, prepayment speeds, and return requirements
commensurate with the risks involved. Cash flow assumptions are modeled using our internally forecasted revenue and expenses, and where possible, the reasonableness of assumptions is periodically validated through comparisons to market data.
Prepayment speed estimates are determined from historical prepayment rates on similar assets or obtained from third-party data. Return requirement assumptions are determined using data obtained from market participants, where available, or based on
current relevant interest rates plus a risk-adjusted spread. We also consider other factors that can impact the value of the MSRs, such as surety provider termination clauses and servicer terminations that could result if we failed to materially
comply with the covenants or conditions of our servicing agreements and did not remedy the failure. Since many factors can affect the estimate of the fair value of MSRs, we regularly evaluate the major assumptions and modeling techniques used in our
estimate and review these assumptions against market comparables, if available. We monitor the actual performance of our MSRs by regularly comparing actual cash flow, credit, and prepayment experience to modeled estimates. Refer to Note 12 for
further discussion of our servicing activities.       Repossessed and Foreclosed Assets    
  Assets are classified as repossessed and foreclosed and included in other assets when physical possession of the collateral is taken
regardless of whether foreclosure proceedings have taken place. Repossessed and foreclosed assets are carried at the lower of the outstanding balance at the time of repossession or foreclosure or the fair value of the asset less estimated costs to
sell. Losses on the revaluation of repossessed and foreclosed assets are charged to the allowance for loan and lease losses at the time of repossession. Declines in value after repossession are charged to other operating expenses for loans and
depreciation expense for lease contracts as incurred.       Goodwill and Other Intangibles    
  Goodwill and other intangible assets, net of accumulated amortization, are reported in other assets. In accordance with applicable
accounting standards, goodwill represents the excess of the cost of an acquisition over the fair value of net assets acquired, including identifiable intangibles. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment utilizing a two-step process. The first step of
the impairment test requires us to define the reporting units and compare the fair value of each of these reporting units to the respective carrying value. The fair value of the reporting units in our impairment test is determined based on various
analyses including discounted cash flow projections using assumptions a market participant would use. If the carrying value is less than the fair value, no impairment exists, and the second step does not need to be completed. If the carrying value
is higher than the fair value or there is an indication that impairment may exist, a second step must be performed to compute the amount of the impairment, if any. Applicable accounting standards require goodwill to be tested for impairment annually
at the same time every year and whenever an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying amount. Our annual goodwill impairment assessment is performed as of
August 31 of each year. Refer to Note 14 for a discussion of the related goodwill impairment charge in 2009 and 2008. There was no goodwill impairment charge in 2010.   
         17   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Investment in Operating Leases    
  Investment in operating leases is reported at cost, less accumulated depreciation and net of impairment charges and origination fees or
costs. Depreciation of vehicles is generally provided on a straight-line basis to an estimated residual value over the lease term. Rate support payments that we receive from manufacturers are treated as a reduction to the cost-basis in the
underlying lease asset and are recognized over the life of the contract as a reduction to depreciation expense. We periodically evaluate our depreciation rate for leased vehicles based on projected residual values. Income from operating lease assets
that includes lease origination fees, net of lease origination costs, is recognized as operating lease revenue on a straight-line basis over the scheduled lease term.      We have significant investments in the residual values of assets in our operating lease portfolio. The residual values represent an estimate of the values of the assets at the end of the lease contracts
and are initially determined based on residual values established at contract inception by consulting independently published residual value guides. Realization of the residual values is dependent on our future ability to market the vehicles under
the prevailing market conditions. Over the life of the lease, we evaluate the adequacy of our estimate of the residual value and may make adjustments to the depreciation rates to the extent the expected value of the vehicle (including any residual
support payments from GM) at lease termination changes. In addition to estimating the residual value at lease termination, we also evaluate the current value of the operating lease asset and test for impairment to the extent necessary based on
market considerations and portfolio characteristics. Impairment is determined to exist if the undiscounted expected future cash flows are lower than the carrying value of the asset. If our operating lease assets are considered to be impaired, the
impairment is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value as estimated by discounted cash flows. Certain triggering events necessitated an impairment review of the investment in operating leases of our
Global Automotive Services beginning in the second quarter of 2008. Refer to Note 10 for a discussion of the impairment charges recognized in 2008.      When a lease vehicle is returned to us, the asset is reclassified from investment in operating leases to other assets and recorded at the lower-of-cost or estimated fair value, less costs to sell.
      Impairment of Long-lived Assets       The carrying value of long-lived assets (including property and equipment) are evaluated for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that their carrying values may not be
recoverable from the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from their use and eventual disposition. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of their carrying amount to future net undiscounted
cash flows expected to be generated by the assets. If these assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment is measured as the amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value as estimated by discounted cash flows. Refer
to the previous section of this note titled Investment in Operating Leases for a discussion pertaining to impairments related to our investment in operating leases in 2008. No material impairment was recognized in 2010 or 2009.   
  An impairment test on an asset group to be discontinued, held-for-sale, or otherwise disposed of is performed upon occurrence of a
triggering event or when certain criteria are met (e.g., the asset can be disposed of within twelve months, appropriate levels of authority have approved the sale, and there is an active program to locate a buyer). Long-lived assets
held-for-sale are recorded at the lower of their carrying amount or estimated fair value less cost to sell. If the carrying value of the assets held-for-sale exceeds the fair value less cost to sell, we recognize an impairment loss based on the
excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets less cost to sell. During 2010 and 2009, impairment losses were recognized on asset groups that were classified as held-for-sale or disposed of by sale. Refer to Note 2 for a
discussion of held-for-sale and discontinued operations.       Property and Equipment    
  Property and equipment stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization, are reported in other assets. Included in
property and equipment are certain buildings, furniture and fixtures, leasehold improvements, company vehicles, IT hardware and software, and capitalized software costs. Depreciation is computed on the straight-line basis over the estimated
useful lives of the assets, which generally ranges from 3 to 30 years. Capitalized software is generally amortized on a straight-line basis over its useful life, which generally ranges from three to five years. Capitalized software that is
not expected to provide substantive service potential or for which development costs significantly exceed the amount originally   
         18   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

expected is considered impaired and written down to fair value. Software expenditures that are considered general, administrative, or of a maintenance nature are expensed as incurred.   
   Private Debt Exchange and Cash Tender Offers       In 2008, we commenced separate private exchange and cash tender offers to purchase and/or exchange certain of outstanding notes held by eligible holders for cash, newly issued notes of Ally, and in the
some cases preferred stock of a wholly owned Ally subsidiary. Refer to Note 17 for additional information related to the exchange and cash tender offers.      In evaluating the accounting for the private debt exchange and cash tender offers (the Offers), management was required to make a determination as to whether the Offers should be accounted for as a
troubled debt restructuring (TDR) or an extinguishment of Ally and ResCap debt. In concluding on the accounting, management evaluated applicable accounting guidance. The relevant accounting guidance required us to determine whether the exchanges of
debt instruments should be accounted for as a TDR. A TDR results when it is determined, evaluating six factors considered to be indicators of whether a debtor is experiencing financial difficulties, that the debtor is experiencing financial
difficulties, and the creditors grant a concession; otherwise, such exchanges should be accounted for as an extinguishment or modification of debt. The assessment of this critical accounting estimate required management to apply a significant amount
of judgment in evaluating the inputs, estimates, and internally generated forecast information to conclude on the accounting for the Offers.      In assessing whether Ally was experiencing financial difficulties for the purpose of accounting for the Offers, management applied applicable accounting guidance. Our assessment considered internal
analyses such as our short- and long-term liquidity projections, net income forecasts, and runoff projections. These analyses were based upon our consolidated financial condition and our comprehensive ability to service both Ally and ResCap
obligations and were based only on our current business capabilities and funding sources. In addition to our baseline projections, these analyses incorporated stressed scenarios reflecting continued deterioration of the credit markets, further GM
financial distress, and significant curtailments of loans originations. Management assigned probability weights to each scenario to determine an overall risk-weighted projection of our ability to meet our consolidated obligations as they come due.
These analyses indicated that we could service all Ally and ResCap obligations as they came due in the normal course of business.      Our assessment also considered capital market perceptions of our financial condition, such as our credit agency ratings, market values for our debt, analysts  reports, and public statements made by
us and our stakeholders. Due to the rigor applied to our internal projections, management placed more weight on our internal projections and less weight on capital market expectations.   
  Based on this analysis and after the consideration of the applicable accounting guidance, management concluded the Offers were not deemed
to be a TDR. As a result of this conclusion, the Offers were accounted for as an extinguishment of debt.      Applying
extinguishment accounting, we recognized a gain at the time of the exchange for the difference between the carrying value of the exchanged notes and the fair value of the newly issued securities. In accordance with applicable fair value
accountin g  guidance related to Level 3 fair value measures, we performed various analyses with regard to the valuation of the newly issued instruments. Level 3 fair value measures are valuations that are derived primarily from
unobservable inputs and rely heavily on management assessments, assumptions, and judgments. In determining the fair value of the newly issued instruments, we performed an internal analysis using trading levels on the trade date,
December 29, 2008, of existing Ally unsecured debt, adjusted for the features of the new instruments. We also obtained bid-ask spreads from brokers attempting to make a market in the new instruments.   
  Based on the determined fair values, we recognized a pretax gain upon extinguishment of $11.5 billion and reflected the newly issued
preferred shares at their face value, which was estimated to be $234 million on December 29, 2008. The majority of costs associated with the Offers were deferred in the basis of the newly issued bonds. In the aggregate, the offers
resulted in an $11.7 billion increase to our consolidated equity position.   
         19   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Unearned Insurance Premiums and Service Revenue    
  Insurance premiums, net of premiums ceded to reinsurers, and service revenue are earned over the terms of the policies. The portion of
premiums and service revenue written applicable to the unexpired terms of the policies is recorded as unearned insurance premiums or unearned service revenue. For extended service and maintenance contracts, premiums and service revenues are earned
on a basis proportionate to the anticipated loss emergence. For other short duration contracts, premiums and unearned service revenue are earned on a pro rata basis. For further detail, refer to Note 3.   
   Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs       Commissions, including compensation paid to producers of automotive service contracts and other costs of acquiring insurance that are primarily related to and vary with the production of business, are
deferred and recorded in other assets. Deferred policy acquisition costs are amortized over the terms of the related policies and service contracts on the same basis as premiums and revenue are earned except for direct response advertising costs,
which are amortized over their expected future benefit. We group costs incurred for acquiring like contracts and consider anticipated investment income in determining the recoverability of these costs.   
   Reserves for Insurance Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses       Reserves for insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses are established for the unpaid cost of insured events that have occurred as of a point in time. More specifically, the reserves for insurance
losses and loss adjustment expenses represent the accumulation of estimates for both reported losses and those incurred, but not reported, including claims adjustment expenses relating to direct insurance and assumed reinsurance agreements.
Estimates for salvage and subrogation recoverable are recognized at the time losses are incurred and netted against provision for insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses. Reserves are established for each business at the lowest meaningful
level of homogeneous data. Since the reserves are based on estimates, the ultimate liability may vary from such estimates. The estimates are regularly reviewed and adjustments, which can potentially be significant, are included in earnings in the
period in which they are deemed necessary. Refer to Note 18 for detail on these reserves.       Loan Repurchase and Obligations Related to
Loan Sales       Our Mortgage operations sell loans that take the form of securitizations guaranteed by the GSEs and whole-loan
purchasers. In addition, we infrequently sell securities to investors through private-label securitizations. In connection with these activities we provide to the GSEs, investors, whole-loan purchasers, and financial guarantors (monolines) various
representations and warranties related to the loans sold. These representations and warranties generally relate to, among other things, the ownership of the loan, the validity of the lien securing the loan, the loan s compliance with the
criteria for inclusion in the transaction, including compliance with underwriting standards or loan criteria established by the buyer, ability to deliver required documentation and compliance with applicable laws. Generally, the representations and
warranties described in Note 30 may be enforced at any time over the life of the loan. ResCap assumes all of the customary representation and warranty obligations for loans purchased from Ally Bank and subsequently sold into the secondary
market. In the event ResCap fails to meet these obligations, Ally Financial Inc. has provided a guarantee to Ally Bank that covers it from liability.      Upon a breach of a representation, we correct the breach in a manner conforming to the provisions of the sale agreement. This may require us either to repurchase the loan or to indemnify (make-whole) a
party for incurred losses or provide other recourse to a GSE or investor. Repurchase demands and claims for indemnification payments are reviewed on a loan-by-loan basis to validate if there has been a breach requiring repurchase or a make-whole
payment. We actively contest claims to the extent we do not consider them valid. In cases where we repurchase loans, we bear the subsequent credit loss on the loans. Repurchased loans are classified as held-for-sale and initially recorded at fair
value. We seek to manage the risk of repurchase and associated credit exposure through our underwriting and quality assurance practices and by servicing mortgage loans to meet investor standards.   
  The reserve for representation and warranty obligations reflects management s best estimate of probable lifetime loss. We consider
historical and recent demand trends in establishing the reserve. The methodology used to estimate the reserve considers a variety of assumptions including borrower performance (both actual and estimated future defaults), repurchase demand behavior,
historical loan defect experience, historical and estimated future loss experience, which includes projections   
         20   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

of future home price changes as well as other qualitative factors including investor behavior. In cases where we do not have or have limited current or historical demand experience with an
investor, because it is difficult to predict the level and timing of future demands, if any, losses cannot currently be reasonably estimated, and a liability is not recognized. Management monitors the adequacy of the overall reserve and makes
adjustments to the level of reserve, as necessary, after consideration of other qualitative factors including ongoing dialogue with counterparties.      At the time a loan is sold, an estimate of the fair value of the liability is recorded and classified in accrued expenses and other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet, and recorded as a
component of gain (loss) on mortgage and automotive loans, net, in our Consolidated Statement of Income. We recognize changes in the reserve when additional relevant information becomes available. Changes in the liability are recorded as other
operating expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Income.       Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities    
  We use derivative instruments for risk management purposes. Some of our derivative instruments are designated in qualifying hedge
accounting relationships; other derivatives instruments do not qualify for hedge accounting or are not elected to be designated in a qualifying hedging relationship. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, all derivative financial
instruments, whether designated for hedge accounting or not, are required to be recorded on the balance sheet as assets or liabilities and measured at fair value. Additionally, we generally report derivative financial instruments in the Consolidated
Balance Sheet on a gross basis. However, in certain instances we report our position on a net basis where we have asset and liability derivative positions with a single counterparty, we have a legally enforceable right of offset, and we intend to
settle the position on a net basis. For additional detail on derivative instruments and hedging activities, refer to Note 23.      At inception of a hedging relationship, we designate each qualifying derivative financial instrument as a hedge of the fair value of a specifically identified asset or liability (fair value hedge); as a
hedge of the variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a recognized asset or liability (cash flow hedge); or as a hedge of the foreign-currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. We formally document all
relationships between hedging instruments and hedged items and risk management objectives for undertaking various hedge transactions. Both at the hedge s inception and on an ongoing basis, we formally assess whether the derivatives that are
used in hedging relationships are highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of hedged items.   
  Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments that are designated and qualify as fair value hedges along with the gain or
loss on the hedged asset or liability attributable to the hedged risk, are recorded in the current period earnings. For qualifying cash flow hedges, the effective portion of the change in the fair value of the derivative financial instruments is
recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, a component of equity, and recognized in the income statement when the hedged cash flows affect earnings. For a derivative designated as hedging the foreign-currency exposure of a net investment in
a foreign operation, the gain or loss is reported in accumulated other comprehensive income as part of the cumulative translation adjustment with the exception of the spot to forward difference, which is recorded in current period earnings. The
ineffective portions of fair value, cash flow, and net investment hedges are immediately recognized in earnings, along with the portion of the change in fair value that is excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness, if any.   
  The hedge accounting treatment described herein is no longer applied if a derivative financial instrument is terminated or the hedge
designation is removed or is assessed to be no longer highly effective. For these terminated fair value hedges, any changes to the hedged asset or liability remain as part of the basis of the asset or liability and are recognized into income over
the remaining life of the asset or liability. For terminated cash flow hedges, unless it is probable that the forecasted cash flows will not occur within a specified period, any changes in fair value of the derivative financial instrument previously
recognized remain in other comprehensive income, a component of equity, and are reclassified into earnings in the same period that the hedged cash flows affect earnings. The previously recognized net derivative gain or loss for a net investment
hedge continues to remain in accumulated other comprehensive income until earnings are impacted by sale or liquidation of the associated foreign operation. In all instances, after hedge accounting is no longer applied, any subsequent changes in fair
value of the derivative instrument will be recorded into earnings.      Changes in the fair value of derivative financial
instruments held for risk management purposes that are not designated as hedges under GAAP are reported in current period earnings.   
         21   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Loan Commitments       We enter into commitments to make loans whereby the interest rate on the loans is set prior to funding (i.e., interest rate lock commitments). Interest rate lock commitments for mortgage loans to be
originated for sale are derivative financial instruments carried at fair value in accordance with applicable accounting standards with changes in fair value included within current period earnings. The fair value of the interest rate lock
commitments, which include expected net future cash flows related to the associated servicing of the loan, are accounted for through earnings for all written loan commitments accounted for at fair value. Servicing assets are recognized as distinct
assets once they are contractually separated from the underlying loan by sale or securitization. Day-one gains or losses on derivative interest rate lock commitments are recognized when applicable.   
   Income Taxes       Effective
June 30, 2009, we converted from an LLC to a Delaware corporation, thereby ceasing to be a pass-through entity for income tax purposes. As a result, we recorded our deferred tax assets and liabilities using the estimated corporate
effective tax rate. Our banking, insurance, and foreign subsidiaries were generally always corporations and continued to be subject to tax and provide for U.S. federal, state, and foreign income taxes.   
  Our income tax expense, deferred tax assets and liabilities, and reserves for unrecognized tax benefits reflect management s best
assessment of estimated future taxes to be paid. We are subject to income taxes in both the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgments and estimates are required in determining the consolidated income tax expense.
     Deferred income taxes arise from temporary differences between the tax and financial statement recognition of revenue and
expense. In evaluating our ability to recover our deferred tax assets within the jurisdiction from which they arise we consider all available positive and negative evidence including scheduled reversals of deferred tax liabilities, projected future
taxable income, tax planning strategies and recent financial operations. In projecting future taxable income, we begin with historical results adjusted for the results of discontinued operations and changes in accounting policies and incorporate
assumptions including the amount of future state, federal and foreign pretax operating income, the reversal of temporary differences, and the implementation of feasible and prudent tax planning strategies. These assumptions require significant
judgment about the forecasts of future taxable income and are consistent with the plans and estimates we are using to manage the underlying businesses. In evaluating the objective evidence that historical results provide, we consider three years of
cumulative operating income (loss). For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, we have concluded that the negative evidence is more objective and therefore outweighs the positive evidence, and therefore we have recorded total
valuation allowances on net deferred tax assets of $2.0 billion and $2.5 billion, respectively. For additional information regarding our provision for income taxes, refer to Note 24.   
  We recognize accrued interest and penalties related to uncertain income tax positions in interest expense and other operating expenses,
respectively.       Stock-based Compensation       Under accounting guidance for stock compensation, compensation cost recognized includes cost for stock-based awards. For certain stock-based awards compensation cost is ratably charged to expense over the
applicable service periods. For other stock-based awards the awards require liability treatment and are remeasured quarterly at fair value until they are paid, with changes in fair value charged to compensation expense in the period in which the
change occurs. Refer to Note 25 for a discussion of our share-based compensation plans.       Foreign Exchange    
  Foreign-denominated assets and liabilities resulting from foreign-currency transactions are valued using period-end foreign-exchange rates
and the results of operations and cash flows are determined using approximate weighted average exchange rates for the period. Translation adjustments are related to foreign subsidiaries using local currency as their functional currency and are
reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income in the Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity. We may elect to enter into foreign-currency derivatives to mitigate our exposure to changes in foreign-exchange rates.
Refer to Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities above for a discussion of our hedging activities of the foreign-currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation.   
         22   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Recently Adopted Accounting Standards        Transfers and Servicing   Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets (ASU 2009-16)       As of January 1, 2010, we adopted Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2009-16 (formerly Statement of Financial Accounting Standards Board (SFAS) No. 166), which amended
Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 860,  Transfers and Servicing.  This standard removes the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity (QSPE) and creates more stringent conditions for reporting a sale when a
portion of a financial asset is transferred. To determine if a transfer is to be accounted for as a sale, the transferor must assess whether the transferor and all of the entities included in the transferor s consolidated financial statements
surrendered control of the assets. For partial asset transfers, the transferred portion must represent a pro rata component of the entire asset with no form of subordination. This standard is applied prospectively for transfers that occur on or
after the effective date; however, the elimination of the QSPE concept required us to retrospectively assess all current off-balance sheet QSPE structures for consolidation under ASC Topic 810,  Consolidation,  and record a
cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings for any consolidation change. Retrospective application of ASU 2009-16, specifically the QSPE removal, was assessed as part of the analysis required by ASU 2009-17,  Consolidations
 Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities . Refer to the section below for further information related to ASU 2009-17.       Consolidations   Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities (ASU 2009-17)    
  As of January 1, 2010, we adopted ASU 2009-17 (formerly SFAS No. 167), which amended ASC Topic 810,
 Consolidation . This standard addresses the primary beneficiary assessment criteria for determining whether an entity is required to consolidate a variable interest entity (VIE). This standard requires an entity to determine whether it is
the primary beneficiary by performing a qualitative assessment rather than using the quantitative-based model that was required under the previous accounting guidance. The qualitative assessment consists of determining whether the entity has both
the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance and the right to receive benefits or obligation to absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE. As a result of the
implementation of ASU 2009-16 and ASU 2009-17, several of our securitization structures previously held off-balance sheet were recognized as consolidated entities resulting in a day-one increase of $17.6 billion to assets and
liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet ($10.1 billion of the increase related to operations classified as held-for-sale). As part of the day-one entry, there was an immaterial adjustment to our opening equity balance.   
   Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures   Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements (ASU 2010-06)    
  As of March 31, 2010, we adopted the majority of ASU 2010-06, which amends ASC Topic 820,  Fair Value
Measurements and Disclosures.  The ASU requires fair value disclosures for each asset and liability class, disclosures related to inputs and valuation methods for measurements that use Level 2 or Level 3 inputs, disclosures of
significant transfers between Levels 1 and 2, and the gross presentation of significant transfers into or out of Level 3 within the Level 3 rollforward. The ASU also requires the gross presentation of purchases, sales, issuances, and
settlements within the Level 3 rollforward; however, this specific requirement will be effective for us during the three months ended March 31, 2011. The disclosure requirement by class is a greater level of disaggregation compared to
the previous requirement, which was based on the major asset or liability category. While the adoption of ASU 2010-06 expanded our disclosures related to fair value measurements, it did not modify the accounting treatment or measurement of
items at fair value and, as such, did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operation.   
   Derivatives and Hedging   Scope Exception Related to Embedded Credit Derivatives (ASU 2010-11)    
  As of July 1, 2010, we adopted ASU 2010-11, which clarifies that the transfer of credit risk that is only in the form of
subordination of one financial instrument to another financial instrument (such as the subordination of one beneficial interest to another tranche of a securitization) is the only embedded derivative feature that does not require an analysis for
bifurcation or separate accounting under ASC 815,  Derivatives and Hedging . In addition, the ASU provides guidance on whether other embedded credit derivatives in financial instruments are subject to bifurcation and separate accounting.
The adoption did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial condition or results of operation.   
         23   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Receivables   Disclosures about the Credit Quality of Financing Receivables and the Allowance
for Credit Losses (ASU 2010-20)       As of December 31, 2010, we adopted ASU 2010-20, which requires
expanded disclosures related to the credit quality of finance receivables and loans. This disclosure will be effective for us during the December 31, 2010, reporting period. The ASU also requires a rollforward of the allowance for loan
losses, additional activity based disclosures for both financing receivables, and the allowance for each reporting period and certain new disclosures about troubled debt restructurings all of which would be effective for us during the
March 31, 2011, reporting period. We have early adopted the rollforward requirement in the December 31, 2010, reporting period. As of January 19, 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
ASU 2011-01,  Deferral of the Effective Date of Disclosures about Troubled Debt Restructurings in Update No. 2010-20 , which effectively defers the disclosure requirements in ASU 2010-20 related to trouble debt
restructurings while they deliberate other potential changes to the accounting for troubled debt restructurings. This deferral will end when the deliberations conclude and the guidance is issued. This is anticipated to be for reporting periods ended
after June 15, 2011. Since the guidance relates only to disclosures, adoption will not have a material effect on our consolidated financial condition or results of operation.       Recently Issued Accounting Standards        Revenue Recognition   Revenue Arrangements
with Multiple Deliverables (ASU 2009-13)       In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU 2009-13, which amends
ASC Topic 605,  Revenue Recognition . The guidance significantly changes the accounting for revenue recognition in arrangements with multiple deliverables and eliminates the residual method, which allocated the discount of a multiple
deliverable arrangement among the delivered items. Under the guidance, entities will be required to allocate the total consideration to all deliverables at inception using the relative selling price and to allocate any discount in the arrangement
proportionally to each deliverable based on each deliverable s selling price. ASU 2009-13 is effective for revenue arrangements that we enter into or materially modify on or after January 1, 2011. We do not expect the adoption to
have a material impact to our consolidated financial condition or results of operation.       Intangibles   Goodwill and Other (ASU
2010-28)       In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-28, which amends ASC Topic 350,  Intangibles
  Goodwill and Other , to modify Step 1 of the goodwill impairment test for reporting units with zero or negative carrying amounts. For those reporting units, an entity is required to perform Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test.
Additionally, when determining whether it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists, an entity should consider whether there are any adverse qualitative factors indicating that an impairment may exist. ASU 2010-28 is effective
for us on January 1, 2011. We do not expect the adoption to have a material impact to our consolidated financial condition or results of operation.       Financial Services   Insurance   Accounting for Costs Associated with Acquiring or Renewing Insurance Contracts (ASU 2010-26)    
  In December 2010, the FASB issued ASU 2010-26, which amends ASC 944,  Financial Services   Insurance . The
amendments in this ASU specify which costs incurred in the acquisition of new and renewal insurance contracts should be capitalized. All other acquisition-related costs should be expensed as incurred. If the initial application of the amendments in
this ASU results in the capitalization of acquisition costs that had not been previously capitalized, an entity may elect not to capitalize those types of costs. The ASU is effective for us on January 1, 2012. We do not expect the adoption
to have a material impact to our consolidated financial condition or results of operation.       

2.   
   Discontinued and Held-for-sale Operations      
   Discontinued Operations    
  We classified certain operations as discontinued using generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America, as the
associated operations and cash flows will be eliminated from our ongoing operations and we will not have any significant continuing involvement in their operations after the respective sale transactions. For all periods presented, all of the
operating results for these operations were removed from continuing operations and are presented separately as discontinued operations, net of tax. The Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements were adjusted to exclude discontinued operations
unless otherwise noted.   
         24   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Select Mortgage   Legacy Portfolio and Other Operations    
  During 2009, we committed to sell certain international operations. These operations included residential mortgage loan origination,
acquisition, servicing, asset management, sale, and securitizations in the United Kingdom and continental Europe (the Netherlands and Germany). On September 30, 2010, and October 1, 2010, we completed the sale of these
operations.       Select Insurance Operations       During 2009, we committed to sell the U.S. and U.K. consumer property and casualty insurance business. These operations provided vehicle and home insurance through a number of distribution
channels including independent agents, affinity groups, and the internet. The sale of our U.S. consumer property and casualty insurance business was completed during the first quarter of 2010. We are in active negotiations and expect to
complete the sale of our U.K. consumer property and casualty insurance business during the first half of 2011.       Select International
Automotive Finance Operations       During 2010, we ceased operations of our International Automotive Finance operations in
Australia and Russia and classified them as discontinued. During the fourth quarter of 2010, we also committed to sell our operations in Venezuela, which resulted in a pretax loss of $108 million during the three months ended
December 31, 2010. The loss represents the impairment recognized to present the operations at the lower-of-cost or fair value. The fair value was determined using an internally developed discounted cash flow model (a Level 3 fair
value input). The impairment loss was primarily driven by the realization of an unfavorable accumulated translation adjustment of $94 million. We expect to complete the sale of our Venezuela operations during 2011.   
  During 2009, we committed to sell certain operations of our International Automotive Finance operations including our Argentina, Poland,
and Ecuador operations and our Masterlease operations in Australia, Belgium, France, Italy, Mexico, the Netherlands, Poland, and the United Kingdom. Our Masterlease operations provide full-service individual leasing and fleet leasing products
including maintenance, fleet, and accident management services as well as fuel programs, short-term vehicle rental, and title and licensing services. During 2009, we completed the sale of the Masterlease operations in Italy, Mexico, and the
Netherlands. During 2010, we completed the sale of our automotive finance operations in Poland and our Masterlease operations in Australia, Poland, Belgium, and France. In July and December 2010, we completed the sale of our Argentina
operations and our Masterlease operations in the United Kingdom, respectively. We completed the sale of our Ecuador operations during the first quarter of 2011.       Select Commercial Finance Group Operations       During 2009, we committed to
sell the North American-based factoring business of our Commercial Finance Group. On April 30, 2010, the sale of the North American-based factoring business was completed.       Select Financial Information       The pretax income or loss recognized for the
discontinued operations, including the direct costs to transact a sale, could differ from the ultimate sales price due to the fluidity of ongoing negotiations, price volatility, changing interest rates, changing foreign-currency rates, and future
economic conditions.   
         25   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   Selected financial information of discontinued operations is summarized below.

(a)  
  Includes certain income tax activity recognized by Corporate and Other.         Held-for-sale Operations       The assets and liabilities of operations
held-for-sale are summarized below.       

(a)  
  Includes the U.K. consumer property and casualty insurance business.     

(b)  
  Includes the International Automotive Finance operations of Ecuador and Venezuela.     
         26   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

(a)  
  Includes the operations in continental Europe and the United Kingdom.     

(b)  
  Includes the U.S. and U.K. consumer property and casualty insurance businesses.     

(c)  
  Includes the International Automotive Finance operations of Argentina, Ecuador, and Poland and Masterlease in Australia, Belgium, France, Poland, and the United
Kingdom.     

(d)  
  Includes the North American-based factoring business of our Commercial Finance Group.     
         27   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Recurring Fair Value       The following tables display the assets and liabilities of our held-for-sale operations measured at fair value on a recurring basis. Refer to Note 27 for descriptions of valuation methodologies used
to measure material assets and liabilities at fair value and details of the valuation models, key inputs to these models, and significant assumptions used.       
 
         28   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following tables present the reconciliation for all Level 3 assets and
liabilities of our held-for-sale operations measured at fair value on a recurring basis.       

(a)  
  Reported as income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statement of Income.     

(b)  
  Carried at fair value due to fair value option elections.     

3.   
   Insurance Premiums and Service Revenue Earned         The following table is a summary of insurance premiums and service revenue written and earned.       
 
         29   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

4.   
   Other Income, Net of Losses         Details of other income, net of losses, were as follows.       

(a)  
  Includes nonmortgage securitization fees.     

(b)  
  During 2008, we recognized $765 million in losses related to an investment accounted for using the equity method. The losses included $195 million as an estimate of our
share of the investee s net loss and the impairment of our remaining investment interests of $570 million. At December 31, 2008, we had no remaining balance in our investment, no further financial obligations, and ceased equity-method
accounting.     

(c)  
  Refer to Note 23 for a description of derivative instruments and hedging activities.     

(d)  
  Refer to Note 27 for a description of fair value option elections.         

5.   
   Other Operating Expenses      
  Details of other operating expenses were as follows.       
 
         30   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

6.   
   Trading Securities         The
fair value for our portfolio of trading securities was as follows.       

7.   
   Investment Securities      
  Our portfolio of investment securities includes bonds, equity securities, asset- and mortgage-backed securities, interests in
securitization trusts, and other investments. The cost, fair value, and gross unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale and held-to-maturity securities were as follows.   

(b)  
  In connection with certain borrowings and letters of credit relating to certain assumed reinsurance contracts, $153 million and $164 million of primarily U.K.
Treasury securities were pledged as collateral at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.     

(c)  
  Certain entities related to our Insurance operations are required to deposit securities with state regulatory authorities. These deposited securities totaled $12
million and $15 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.     
         31   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The maturity distribution of available-for-sale debt securities outstanding is
summarized in the following tables. Prepayments may cause actual maturities to differ from scheduled maturities.       

(a)  
  Investments with no stated maturities are included as contractual maturities of greater than 10 years. Actual maturities may differ due to call or prepayment options.

(b)  
  Yields on tax-exempt obligations have been computed on a tax-equivalent basis.     

(a)  
  Investments with no stated maturities are included as contractual maturities of greater than 10 years. Actual maturities may differ due to call or prepayment options.

(b)  
  Yields on tax-exempt obligations have been computed on a tax-equivalent basis.        The balance of cash equivalents was $5.3 billion and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively and are composed primarily of money market accounts and short-term
securities, including U.S. Treasury bills.   
         32   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following table presents gross gains and losses realized upon the sales of
available-for-sale securities and other-than-temporary impairment.       
    The following table presents interest and dividends on available-for-sale securities.   
   
    Certain available-for-sale securities were sold at a loss in 2010, 2009, and 2008 as a result of market
conditions within these respective periods (e.g., a downgrade in the rating of a debt security). The table below summarizes available-for-sale securities in an unrealized loss position in accumulated other comprehensive income. Based on the
methodology described below that has been applied to these securities, we believe that the unrealized losses relate to factors other than credit losses in the current market environment. At December 31, 2010, we do not have the intent to
sell the debt securities with an unrealized loss position in accumulated other comprehensive income, and it is not more likely than not that we will not be required to sell these securities before recovery of their amortized cost basis. Also, at
December 31, 2010, we had the ability and intent to hold equity securities with an unrealized loss position in accumulated other comprehensive income. As a result, we believe that the securities with an unrealized loss position in
accumulated other comprehensive income are not considered to be other-than-temporarily impaired at December 31, 2010. Refer to Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information related to investment securities
and our methodology for evaluating potential other-than-temporary impairment.       
 
         33   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

8.   
   Loans Held-for-sale, Net      
  The composition of loans held-for-sale, net, reported at carrying value was as follows.   

During the year ended December 31, 2009, our Mortgage operations reclassified loans with an unpaid
principal balance of $8.5 billion from finance receivables and loans, net, to loans held-for-sale, net, on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Due to capital preservation strategies, business divestitures, and future liquidity considerations, we
changed our intent to hold these mortgage loans for the foreseeable future. These loans were measured at fair value immediately prior to the transfer resulting in a valuation loss of $3.4 billion during the year ended
December 31, 2009. We recognized the credit and noncredit component of these losses in provision for loan losses and gain (loss) on mortgage loans, net, respectively, in our Consolidated Statement of Income.   
  The following table summarizes held-for-sale mortgage loans reported at carrying value by higher-risk loan type.   

(a)  
  The majority of these loans are held by our Mortgage Legacy Portfolio and Other operations at December 31, 2010 and 2009.     
         34   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

9.   
   Finance Receivables and Loans, Net         The composition of finance receivables and loans, net, reported at carrying value before allowance for loan losses was as follows.   

(a)  
  Includes domestic consumer mortgages at fair value as a result of fair value option election. Refer to Note 27 for additional information.     

(b)  
  Totals are net of unearned income, unamortized premiums and discounts, and deferred fees and costs of $2.9 billion and $2.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
respectively.        The following tables present an analysis of the activity in the allowance for loan losses on
finance receivables and loans.       

(a)  
  Effect of change in accounting principle due to adoption of ASU 2009-17. Refer to Note 1 for additional information.     
         35   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

Loans are considered impaired when we determine it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts
due according to the terms of the loan agreement.   
         36   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following tables present information about our impaired finance receivables and
loans.       

(a)  
  Primarily reflects the resort finance portfolio with an unpaid principal balance of $782 million, a carrying value before allowance of $779 million, an
impaired with no allowance balance of $99 million, an impaired with an allowance balance of $680 million, and an allowance for impaired loans balance of $148 million.     

37   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following table presents an analysis of our past due finance receivables and loans.
      
    The following table presents the carrying amount of our finance receivables and loans on nonaccrual status.

(a)  
  Amount at December 31, 2009, includes the resort finance portfolio with a nonaccrual loan balance of $779 million. We sold our resort finance portfolio
during the third quarter of 2010.        Management performs a quarterly analysis of the consumer automobile, consumer
mortgage, and commercial portfolios using a range of credit quality indicators to assess the adequacy of the allowance based on historical and current trends. The tables below present select credit quality indicators that are used in the
determination of allowance for our consumer automobile, consumer mortgage, and commercial portfolios.   
         38   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following table presents performing and nonperforming credit quality indicators in
accordance with our internal accounting policies for our consumer finance receivables and loans.       
    The following table presents pass and criticized credit quality indicators based on regulatory definitions
for our commercial finance receivables and loans.       

(a)  
  Includes loans classified as special mention, substandard, or doubtful. These classifications are based on regulatory definitions and generally represent loans within
our portfolio that are of higher default risk.         Concentration Risk    
   Consumer       We monitor our
consumer loan portfolio for concentration risk across the geographies in which we lend. The highest concentrations of loans in the United States are in California and Texas, which represent 16.4% of our total outstanding consumer loans at
December 31, 2010.      Concentrations in our mortgage portfolio are closely monitored given the volatility of the
housing markets. Our consumer mortgage loan concentrations in California, Florida, and Michigan receive particular attention as the real estate value depreciation in these states has been the most severe.   
         39   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following table shows consumer finance receivables and loans recorded at historical
cost reported at carrying value before allowance for loan losses by state and foreign concentration.       

(a)  
  Presentation is in descending order as a percentage of total consumer finance receivables and loans at December 31, 2010.     
  The following table includes our five largest state and foreign concentrations within our higher-risk finance receivables and loans
recorded at historical cost and reported at carrying value before allowance for loan losses.       
 
         40   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Commercial Real Estate       The commercial real estate portfolio consists of loans issued primarily to automotive dealers, homebuilders, and commercial real estate firms. The following table shows commercial real estate finance
receivables and loans reported at carrying value before allowance for loan losses by geographic region and property type.       
     Commercial Criticized Exposure       Exposures deemed criticized represent loans that are classified by regulatory authorities as special mention, substandard, or doubtful. The following table shows industry concentrations commercial
criticized finance receivables and loans reported at carrying value before allowance for loan losses.       

41   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

10.   
   Investment in Operating Leases, Net         Investments in operating leases were as follows.       
    Depreciation expense on operating lease assets includes remarketing gains and losses recognized on the sale
of operating lease assets. The following summarizes the components of depreciation expense on operating lease assets.       
    The following table presents the future lease nonresidual rental payments due from customers for equipment
on operating leases.       
    Our investment in operating lease assets represents the net book value of our leased assets based on the
expected residual value upon remarketing the vehicle at the end of the lease. As described in Note 26, GM may sponsor residual support programs that result in the contractual residual value being in excess of our standard residual value. GM
reimburses us if remarketing sales proceeds are less than the customer s contract residual value limited to our standard residual value. In addition to residual support programs, GM also participates in a risk-sharing arrangement whereby
GM shares equally in residual losses to the extent that remarketing proceeds are below our standard residual rates (limited to a floor). In connection with the sale of 51% ownership interest in Ally, GM settled its estimated liabilities with
respect to residual support and risk sharing on a portion of our operating lease portfolio. Based on the December 31, 2010, outstanding U.S. operating lease portfolio, the maximum amount that could be paid by GM under the residual
support programs and the risk-sharing arrangement was $475 million and $996 million, respectively, as more fully discussed in Note 26. We did not receive any residual support or risk-sharing incentives from GM or Chrysler on leases
originated in 2010 or 2009.      In light of the significant declines in used vehicle prices during 2008 in the United States,
Canada, and several international markets, we concluded certain triggering events occurred during the year ended December 31, 2008, requiring an evaluation of recoverability for certain operating lease assets within our Global Automotive
Services. We grouped these operating lease assets at the lowest level that we could reasonably estimate the identifiable cash flows. In assessing for recoverability, we compared our estimates of future cash flows related to these lease assets to
their corresponding carrying values. We considered all of the expected cash flows including customer payments, the expected residual value upon remarketing the vehicle at lease termination, and any payments from GM under residual and risk-sharing
agreements. To the extent these undiscounted cash flows were less than their respective carrying values, we discounted the cash flows to arrive at an estimated fair value. As a result of this evaluation, during the year ended
December 31, 2008, we reduced our carrying values to equal the estimated fair values and realized impairment charges of $1,234 million. Impairments recognized by our North American Automotive Finance operations consisted of
$808 million related to sport-utility vehicles and trucks in the   
         42   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

United States and Canada and $384 million related to the car portfolio in the United States. The impairment recognized by our International Automotive Finance operations totaled
$42 million for full-service leasing portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2009, $16 million of the 2008 impairment charges related to the full-service leasing portfolio were reclassified to discontinued operations.
     While we believe our estimates of discounted future cash flows used for the impairment analysis were reasonable based on
current market conditions, the process required the use of significant estimates and assumptions. In developing these estimates and assumptions, management used all available evidence. However, because of uncertainties associated with estimating the
amounts, timing, and likelihood of possible outcomes, the actual cash flows could ultimately differ from those estimated as part of the recoverability and impairment analyses.      Imbedded in our residual value projections are estimates of projected recoveries from GM relative to residual support and risk-sharing agreements. No adjustment to these estimates has been made for the
collectability of the projected recoveries from GM. At December 31, 2010, expected residual values included estimates of payments from GM of $322 million related to residual support and risk-sharing agreements. To the extent GM is not
able to fully honor its obligations relative to these agreements, our depreciation expense and remarketing performance would be negatively impacted.       

11.   
   Securitizations and Variable Interest Entities          Overview       We are involved in several types of securitization and financing
transactions that utilize special-purpose entities (SPEs). An SPE is an entity that is designed to fulfill a specified limited need of the sponsor. Our principal use of SPEs is to obtain liquidity and favorable capital treatment by securitizing
certain of our financial assets.      The SPEs involved in securitization and other financing transactions are generally
considered VIEs. VIEs are entities that have either a total equity investment that is insufficient to permit the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support or whose equity investors lack the ability to control
the entity s activities.       Securitizations       We provide a wide range of automobile loans or installment contracts and operating leases and mortgage loan products to a diverse customer base. We often securitize these originated loans and leases
(which we collectively describe as loans or financial assets) through the use of securitization entities, which may or may not be consolidated on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. We securitize consumer automobile loans through private-label
securitizations. We securitize consumer mortgage loans through either the GSEs or nonagency mortgages securitization. During 2010, our consumer mortgage loans were primarily securitized through the GSEs.   
  In executing a securitization transaction, we typically sell pools of financial assets to a wholly owned, bankruptcy-remote SPE, which
then transfers the financial assets to a separate, transaction-specific securitization entity for cash, servicing rights, and in some transactions, other retained interests. The securitization entity is funded through the issuance of beneficial
interests in the securitized financial assets. The beneficial interests take the form of either notes or trust certificates which are sold to investors and/or retained by us. These beneficial interests are collateralized by the transferred loans and
entitle the investors to specified cash flows generated from the securitized loans. In the aggregate, these beneficial interests have the same average life as the transferred financial assets. In addition to providing a source of liquidity and
cost-efficient funding, securitizing these financial assets also reduces our credit exposure to the borrowers beyond any economic interest we may retain. We securitize conforming residential mortgage loans through GSE securitizations, and
nonconforming mortgage loans through nonagency securitizations.      Each securitization is governed by various legal documents
that limit and specify the activities of the securitization entity. The securitization entity is generally allowed to acquire the loans, to issue beneficial interests to investors to fund the acquisition of the loans, and to enter into derivatives
or other yield maintenance contracts (e.g., bond insurance) to hedge or mitigate certain risks related to the financial assets or beneficial interests of the entity. Additionally, the securitization entity is required to service the assets it holds
and the beneficial interests it issues. A servicer, who is generally us, is appointed pursuant to the underlying legal documents to perform these functions. Servicing functions include, but are not limited to, making certain payments of property
taxes and insurance premiums, default and property maintenance payments, as well as   
         43   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

advancing principal and interest payments before collecting them from individual borrowers. Our servicing responsibilities, which constitute continued involvement in the transferred financial
assets, consist of primary servicing (i.e., servicing the underlying transferred financial assets) and/or master servicing (i.e., servicing the beneficial interests that result from the securitization transactions). Certain securitization
entities also require the servicer to advance scheduled principal and interest payments due on the beneficial interests issued by the entity regardless of whether cash payments are received on the underlying transferred financial assets.
Accordingly, we are required to provide these servicing advances when applicable. Refer to Note 1 and Note 12 for additional information regarding our servicing rights.   
  The GSEs provide a guarantee of the payment of principal and interest on the beneficial interests issued in securitizations. In
private-label securitizations, cash flows from the assets initially transferred into the securitization entity represent the sole source for payment of distributions on the beneficial interests issued by the securitization entity, and for payments
to the parties that perform services for the securitization entity, such as the servicer or the trustee. In certain nonagency securitization transactions, a liquidity facility may exist to provide temporary liquidity to the entity. The liquidity
provider generally is reimbursed prior to other parties in subsequent distribution periods. Monoline insurance may also exist to cover certain shortfalls to certain investors in the beneficial interests issued by the securitization entity. As noted
above, in certain nonagency securitizations, the servicer is required to advance scheduled principal and interest payments due on the beneficial interests regardless of whether cash payments are received on the underlying transferred financial
assets. The servicer is allowed to reimburse itself for these servicing advances. Additionally, certain nonagency securitization transactions may allow for the acquisition of additional loans subsequent to the initial loan transfer. Principal
collections on other loans and/or the issuance of new beneficial interests, such as variable funding notes, generally fund these loans; we are often contractually required to invest in these new interests.   
  We may retain beneficial interests in our nonagency securitizations, which may represent a form of significant continuing economic
interest. These retained interests include, but are not limited to, senior or subordinate mortgage- or asset-backed securities, interest-only strips, principal-only strips, and residuals. Certain of these retained interests provide credit
enhancement to the trust as they may absorb credit losses or other cash shortfalls. Additionally, the securitization agreements may require cash flows to be directed away from certain of our retained interests due to specific over-collateralization
requirements, which may or may not be performance-driven.      We generally hold certain conditional repurchase options that allow
us to repurchase assets from the securitization entity. The majority of the securitizations provide us, as servicer, with a call option that allows us to repurchase the remaining transferred financial assets or outstanding beneficial interests at
our discretion once the asset pool reaches a predefined level, which represents the point where servicing becomes burdensome (a clean-up call option). The repurchase price is typically the par amount of the loans plus accrued interest. Additionally,
we may hold other conditional repurchase options that allow us to repurchase a transferred financial asset if certain events outside our control are met. The typical conditional repurchase option is a delinquent loan repurchase option that gives us
the option to purchase the loan or contract if it exceeds a certain prespecified delinquency level. We have complete discretion regarding when or if we will exercise these options, but generally, we would do so only when it is in our best interest.
     Other than our customary representation and warranty provisions, these securitizations are nonrecourse to us, thereby
transferring the risk of future credit losses to the extent the beneficial interests in the securitization entities are held by third parties. Our obligation to provide support is limited to the customary representation and warranty provisions.
Representation and warranty provisions generally require us to repurchase loans or indemnify the investor for incurred losses to the extent it is determined that the loans were ineligible or were otherwise defective at the time of sale. Refer to
Note 30 for detail on representation and warranty provisions. We did not provide any noncontractual financial support to any of these entities during 2010 or 2009.       Other Variable Interest Entities        Servicer Advance Funding Entity    
  To assist in the financing of our servicer advance receivables, we formed an SPE that issues term notes to third-party investors that are
collateralized by servicer advance receivables. These servicer advance receivables are transferred to the SPE and consist of delinquent principal and interest advances we made as servicer, to various investors; property taxes and
  
         44   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

insurance premiums advanced to taxing authorities and insurance companies on behalf of borrowers; and amounts advanced for mortgages in foreclosure. The SPE funds the purchase of the
receivables through financing obtained from the third-party investors and subordinated loans or an equity contribution from our mortgage activities. This SPE is consolidated on our balance sheet at December 31, 2010 and 2009. The
beneficial interest holder of this SPE does not have legal recourse to our general credit. We do not have a contractual obligation to provide any type of financial support in the future, nor have we provided noncontractual financial support to the
entity during 2010 or 2009.       Other       In 2010, we sold a portfolio of resort finance backed receivables to a third party that financed the acquisition through an SPE. We provided seller financing for the purchase of these assets and also
hold a contingent value right in the SPE, which were both recorded at fair value. We do not consolidate the SPE because we have no control over the activities of the SPE.      We have involvements with various other on-balance sheet, immaterial SPEs. Most of these SPEs are used for additional liquidity, whereby we sell certain financial assets into the VIE and issue beneficial
interests to third parties for cash.      We also provide long-term guarantee contracts to certain nonconsolidated affordable
housing entities. Since we do not have control over the entities or the power to make decisions, we do not consolidate the entities and our involvement is limited to the guarantee.       Involvement with Variable Interest Entities       The determination of whether
financial assets transferred by us to these VIEs (and related liabilities) are consolidated on our balance sheet (also referred to as on-balance sheet) or not consolidated on our balance sheet (also referred to as off-balance sheet) depends on the
terms of the related transaction and our continuing involvement (if any) with the SPE. Prior to the adoption of ASU 2009-17, which amended ASC 810, we were deemed the primary beneficiary and therefore consolidated VIEs when we absorbed the
majority of the expected losses or expected residual returns of the entity, and the entity was not considered a qualified special-purpose entity (QSPE). Subsequent to the adoption of ASU 2009-17, we are deemed the primary beneficiary and
therefore consolidate VIEs (including entities previously considered QSPEs) for which we have both (a) the power, through voting rights or similar rights, to direct the activities that most significantly impact the VIE s economic
performance, and (b) a variable interest (or variable interests) that (i) obligates us to absorb losses that could potentially be significant to the VIE and/or (ii) provides us the right to receive residual returns of the VIE that
could potentially be significant to the VIE. We determine whether we hold a significant variable interest in a VIE based on a consideration of both qualitative and quantitative factors regarding the nature, size, and form of our involvement with the
VIE. We assess whether we are the primary beneficiary of a VIE on an ongoing basis. Refer to the section in this note titled  Changes in Accounting for Variable Interest Entities  for additional information.   
         45   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   Our involvement with consolidated and nonconsolidated VIEs in which we hold variable
interests is presented below.       

(a)  
  Asset values represent the current unpaid principal balance of outstanding consumer finance receivables and loans within the VIEs.     

(b)  
  Includes $2.5 billion and $2.0 billion classified as consumer finance receivables and loans, $162 million and $268 million classified as trading securities or other
assets, and $569 million and $542 million classified as MSRs at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. CMHC is the Canada Mortgage and Housing Corporation.     

(c)  
  Maximum exposure to loss represents the current unpaid principal balance of outstanding loans based on our customary representation and warranty provisions. This
measure is based on the unlikely event that all of the loans have underwriting defects or other defects that trigger a representation and warranty provision and the collateral supporting the loans are worthless. This required disclosure is not an
indication of our expected loss.     

(d)  
  Due to combination of the credit loss insurance on the mortgages and the guarantee by CMHC on the issued securities, the maximum exposure to loss would be limited to
the amount of the retained interests. Additionally, the maximum loss would occur only in the event that CMHC dismisses ResMor as servicer of the loans due to servicer performance or insolvency.     

(e)  
  Includes $515 million and $20 million classified as commercial finance receivables and loans and other assets, respectively, net of liabilities of $52 million
classified as other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.     

(f)  
  Includes VIEs for which we have no management oversight and therefore we are not able to provide the total assets of the VIEs. However, in 2010 we sold loans with an
unpaid principal balance of $1.5 billion into these VIEs.     

(g)  
  This amount is classified as accrued expenses and other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.     
   On-balance Sheet Variable Interest Entities       We engage in securitization and other financing transactions that do not qualify for off-balance sheet treatment. In these situations, we hold beneficial interests or other interests in the VIE, which
represents a form of significant continuing economic interest. The interests held include, but are not limited to, senior or subordinate mortgage- or asset-backed securities, interest-only strips, principal-only strips, residuals, and servicing
rights. Certain of these retained interests provide credit enhancement to the securitization entity as they may absorb credit losses or other cash shortfalls. Additionally, the securitization documents may require cash flows to be directed away from
certain of our retained interests due to specific over-collateralization requirements, which may or may not be performance-driven. Because these securitization entities are consolidated, these retained interests and servicing rights are not
recognized as separate assets on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.   
         46   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   Prior to the adoption of ASU 2009-17, we consolidated certain securitization
entities that were not QSPEs because we either did not meet sale accounting requirements or held the first loss position in these securitization entities and, as a result, absorbed the majority of the expected losses and expected residual returns of
the VIE. Subsequent to adoption of ASU 2009-17 as of January 1, 2010, we consolidate certain of these entities because we had a controlling financial interest in the VIE, primarily due to our servicing activities, and because we hold
a significant variable interest in the VIE. Under ASC 810, as amended by ASU 2009-17, we are generally the primary beneficiary of automobile securitization entities, as well as certain mortgage nonagency securitization entities for which
we perform servicing activities and have retained a significant variable interest in the form of a beneficial interest. In cases where we did not meet sale accounting under previous guidance, unless we have made modifications to the overall
transaction, we do not meet sale accounting under current guidance as we are not permitted to revisit sale accounting guidelines under the current guidance. In cases where substantive modifications are made, we then reassess the transaction under
the amended guidance, based on the new circumstances. Refer to the section in this note titled  Changes in Accounting for Variable Interest Entities  for additional information .    
  The following table presents the carrying amounts and classifications of assets and liabilities of consolidated VIEs as reported on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet. The consolidated VIEs included in the tables below represent separate entities with which we are involved. The third-party investors in the obligations of consolidated VIEs have legal recourse only to the assets of the
VIEs and do not have such recourse to us, except for the customary representation and warranty provisions or when we are the counterparty to certain derivative transactions involving the VIE. In addition, the cash flows from the assets are
restricted only to pay such liabilities. Thus, our economic exposure to loss from outstanding third-party financing related to consolidated VIEs is significantly less than the carrying value of the consolidated VIE assets. All assets are restricted
for the benefit of the beneficial interest holders. Refer to Note 27 for discussion of the assets and liabilities for which the fair value option has been elected.       
     Off-balance Sheet Variable Interest Entities       The nature, purpose, and activities of nonconsolidated securitization entities are similar to those of our consolidated securitization entities with the primary difference being the nature and extent of
our continuing involvement. The cash flows from the assets of nonconsolidated securitization entities generally are the sole source of payment on the securitization entities  liabilities. The creditors of these securitization entities have no
recourse to us with the exception of market customary representation and warranty provisions as described in Note 30.   
  Prior to the adoption of ASU 2009-17, we did not consolidate securitization entities that met the requirements of a QSPE. Subsequent
to the adoption of ASU 2009-17 as of January 1, 2010, nonconsolidated VIEs include entities for which we either do not hold significant variable interests or do not provide servicing or asset management functions for the financial
assets held by the securitization entity. Additionally, to qualify for off-balance sheet treatment, transfers of financial assets must meet the sale accounting conditions in ASC 860. Our residential mortgage loan securitizations consist of GSEs
and nonagency   
         47   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

securitizations. Under ASU 2009-17, we are not the primary beneficiary of any GSE loan securitization transaction because we do not have the power to direct the significant activities of
such entities. Additionally, under ASU 2009-17, we do not consolidate certain nonagency mortgage securitizations because we do not have a variable interest that could potentially be significant or we do not have power to direct the activities
that most significantly impact the performance of the VIE.      For nonconsolidated securitization entities, the transferred
financial assets are removed from our balance sheet provided the conditions for sale accounting are met. The financial assets obtained from the securitization are primarily reported as cash, servicing rights, or retained interests (if applicable).
Typically, we conclude that the fee we are paid for servicing consumer automobile finance receivables represents adequate compensation, and consequently, we do not recognize a servicing asset or liability. As an accounting policy election, we
elected fair value treatment for our existing MSR portfolio. Liabilities incurred as part of these securitization transactions, such as representation and warranty provisions, are recorded at fair value at the time of sale and are reported as
accrued expenses and other liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Upon the sale of the loans, we recognize a gain or loss on sale for the difference between the assets recognized, the assets derecognized, and the liabilities recognized as
part of the transaction.      The following summarizes all pretax gains and losses recognized on financial assets sold into
nonconsolidated securitization and similar asset-backed financing entities.       
    Key economic assumptions used in measuring the initial fair value of retained interests related to sales of
financial assets to nonconsolidated securitization entities were as follows during 2010, 2009, and 2008. Refer to Note 12 for servicing-related assumptions and to Note 27 for fair value assumptions and classifications.   

(a)  
  The fair value of retained interests in commercial automobile securitization approximates carrying value because of the short-term and floating-rate nature of
commercial automobile loans.     

(b)  
  Consumer residential mortgage loans include home equity loans and lines, high loan-to-value loans, and residential first and second mortgage loans. Assumptions on GSE
loans are not included as we do not hold a retained interest in those transactions.     

(c)  
  Includes retained interests related to securitization entities deconsolidated in the current year.     

(d)  
  The assumptions used to measure the expected yield on variable-rate retained interests are based on a benchmark interest rate yield curve plus a contractual spread, as
appropriate. The actual yield curve utilized varies depending on the specific retained interests.     

(e)  
  Based on monthly prepayment speeds for consumer automobile loans and constant prepayment rate (CPR) for consumer mortgage loans.     

(f)  
  During 2010 and 2009, no consumer automobile loans were sold into nonconsolidated securitization entities.     

(g)  
  Includes sales to entities that are now consolidated under ASU 2009-17.     
         48   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   Refer to Note 30 for initial fair value assumptions involving our customary
representation and warranty liabilities.      The following tables summarize cash flows received from and paid related to
securitization entities, asset-backed financings, or other similar transfers of financial assets where the transfer is accounted for as a sale and we have a continuing involvement with the transferred assets (e.g., servicing) that were outstanding
in 2010, 2009, and 2008. Cash flows presented below may not be comparable because the prior two years include cash flows related to securitization entities that are now consolidated. Additionally, these tables contain information regarding cash
flows received from and paid to nonconsolidated securitization entities that existed during each year.       
 
         49   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following tables summarizes the key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the
fair value of retained interests to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptions.       

(a)  
  There were no retained interests in consumer or commercial automobile securitizations at December 31, 2010.     

(b)  
  These amounts are recorded in trading securities or other assets at fair value. Refer to Note 27 for fair value valuation methods.     

(c)  
  Amounts include items that were consolidated after the adoption of ASU 2009-17.     

(d)  
  There were no retained interests in commercial automobile securitizations at December 31, 2009.     

(e)  
  Forward benchmark interest rate yield curve plus contractual spread.        These sensitivities are hypothetical and should be viewed with caution. Changes in fair value based on a 10% and 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of
the change in assumption to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, in this table, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value of the retained interest is calculated without changing any other assumption. In
reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another (e.g., increased market interest rates may result in lower prepayments and increased credit losses), which may magnify or counteract the sensitivities. Further, these sensitivities
show only the change in the asset balances and do not show any expected change in the fair value of the instruments used to manage the interest rate and prepayment risks associated with these assets. Refer to Note 12 for further detail on
sensitivities related to our mortgage servicing rights.   
         50   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   Expected static pool net credit losses include actual incurred losses plus projected net
loan losses divided by the original balance of the outstandings comprising the securitization pool. The following table displays the expected static pool net credit losses on our securitization transactions.   

(a)  
  Static pool losses not applicable to commercial automobile finance receivable securitizations because of their short-term nature.     

(b)  
  There were no consumer automobile off-balance sheet securitization entities at December 31, 2010.     

(c)  
  Consumer residential mortgage loan securitizations do not include static pool losses for the GSE securitizations due to the GSE guarantees.     
  The following table represents on-balance sheet loans held-for-sale and finance receivable and loans, off-balance sheet securitizations,
and whole-loan sales where we have continuing involvement. The table presents quantitative information about delinquencies and net credit losses. Refer to Note 12 for further detail on total serviced assets.   
   
    n/m = not meaningful   

(a)  
  Includes loans subject to conditional repurchase options of $2.3 billion and $1.7 billion guaranteed by the GSEs, and $146 million and $237 million sold to certain
nonagency mortgage securitization entities at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These loans are initially recorded at fair value.     

(b)  
  Anticipated credit losses are not meaningful due to the GSE guarantees.     

(c)  
  Whole-loan transactions are not part of a securitization transaction, but represent automobile and consumer mortgage pools of loans sold to nonagency investors.
        Changes in Accounting for Variable Interest Entities    
  During 2009, we executed an amendment to a commercial automobile securitization entity that was previously considered as a QSPE and,
therefore, was not consolidated. The amendment contractually required us to deposit additional cash into a collateral account held by the securitization entity. Management determined the amendment caused the entity to no longer be considered a QSPE,
and therefore we consolidated the entity. We continued to consolidate this entity after adoption of ASU 2009-17.   
  ASU 2009-17 became effective on January 1, 2010, and upon adoption, we consolidated certain securitization entities that
were previously held off-balance sheet. On January 1, 2010, we recognized a net increase of $17.6 billion to assets and liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet ($10.1 billion of the increase relates to operations classified
as held-for-sale that   
         51   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

were ultimately sold). Refer to Note 1 for further discussion of the requirements of ASC 860 and ASC 810, including changes to the accounting requirements related to transfers of
financial assets and consolidation of VIEs.      We previously held on our Consolidated Balance Sheet certain mortgage
securitization entities, which were on-balance sheet prior to the adoption of ASU 2009-17 because we did not meet the sale accounting requirements at the inception of the transactions .  Specific provisions inherent in these deals,
included but were not limited to, the ability of the trust to enter into a derivative contract and the inclusion of a loan repurchase right. The existence of the ability to enter into a derivative precluded the entities from being deemed a QSPE and
the existence of the loan repurchase right precluded sale accounting treatment. These two provisions, when used in combination, were deemed substantive and precluded sale accounting. We also retained servicing and, in most cases, retained an
economic interest in the entities in the form of economic residuals, subordinate bonds, and/or IO strips. During 2010, we completed the sale of 100% of our retained residuals and subordinate bonds related to certain of these on-balance sheet
securitization entities. In addition, any repurchase rights associated with these structures were removed from these deals through exercise of such right. These collective actions were deemed to be substantial to warrant a re-characterization of the
original transactions and, as such, they were reassessed under ASC 860 and it was concluded that the securitization entities satisfied sale accounting requirements. Furthermore, the sale of the 100% economic interests resulted in the loss of a
controlling financial interest in the securitization entities and accordingly consolidation was not required. The combination of these actions resulted in the derecognition of assets previously sold to these securitization entities. Consolidated
assets and consolidated liabilities of $1.2 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively, associated with this transaction were derecognized and a gain of $51 million was recorded.   
  During 2010, we further completed the sale of our significant retained residuals and subordinate bonds related to certain other
on-balance sheet securitization entities, which were consolidated upon adoption of ASU 2009-17 (but were not consolidated prior to the adoption of ASU 2009-17). Since we disposed of our variable interests in these securitization entities to
unrelated third parties, a reassessment was required to determine whether we continued to hold a controlling financial interest. All subordinate retained economic interests in these entities were sold and therefore we no longer held a controlling
financial interest. All assets and liabilities associated with the trust were derecognized and all retained interests in the entities, including insignificant retained senior interests and mortgage servicing rights, were recorded at their fair
values at the date of deconsolidation. Consolidated assets and consolidated liabilities of $709 million and $707 million, respectively, associated with this transaction were derecognized and a gain of $1 million was recorded.
     Related to these deconsolidations above, we continue to hold servicing rights associated with these transactions, however
retained servicing does not preclude deconsolidation because the retained servicing we hold does not absorb a potentially significant level of variability in the securitization entities. Upon completion of the sale, $9 million of servicing
rights and $1 million of retained interests associated with this transaction were recorded.       

12.   
   Servicing Activities          Mortgage
Servicing Rights       The following table summarizes activity related to MSRs which are carried at fair value.   

52   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   Changes in fair value due to changes in valuation inputs or assumptions used in the
valuation model include all changes due to a revaluation by a model or by a benchmarking exercise. Other changes in fair value primarily include the accretion of the present value of the discount related to forecasted cash flows and the economic
runoff of the portfolio. The decrease due to change in accounting principle reflects the effect of the initial adoption of ASU 2009-17. Refer to Note 1 for additional information.   
  The key economic assumptions and sensitivity of the fair value of MSRs to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptions were
as follows.       
    These sensitivities are hypothetical and should be considered with caution. Changes in fair value based on a
10% and 20% variation in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in assumptions to the change in fair value may not be linear. Also, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the fair value
is calculated without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another (e.g., increased market interest rates may result in lower prepayments and increased credit losses) that could magnify or
counteract the sensitivities. Further, these sensitivities show only the change in the asset balances and do not show any expected change in the fair value of the instruments used to manage the interest rates and prepayment risks associated with
these assets.       Risk Mitigation Activities       The primary risk of our servicing rights is interest rate risk and the resulting impact on prepayments. A significant decline in interest rates could lead to higher-than-expected prepayments that could
reduce the value of the MSRs. We economically hedge the impact of these risks with both derivative and nonderivative financial instruments. Refer to Note 23 for additional information regarding the derivative financial instruments used to
economically hedge MSRs.      The components of servicing valuation and hedge activities, net, were as follows.   
   
     Mortgage Servicing Fees       The components of mortgage servicing fees were as follows.       
     Mortgage Servicing Advances       In connection with our primary servicing activities (i.e., servicing of mortgage loans), we make certain payments of property taxes and insurance premiums, default and property maintenance payments,
as well as advances of principal and interest payments before collecting them from individual borrowers. Servicing advances including contractual interest are   
         53   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

priority cash flows in the event of a loan principal reduction or foreclosure and ultimate liquidation of the real estate-owned property, thus making their collection reasonably assured. These
servicing advances are included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and totaled $1.9 billion and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We maintain an allowance for uncollected primary servicing
advances of $25 million and $23 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our potential obligation is influenced by the loan s performance and credit quality. Additionally, we have a fiduciary responsibility for
mortgage escrow and custodial funds that totaled $4.2 billion and $3.7 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. A portion of these balances are included in deposit liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. Refer to Note 15
for additional information.      When we act as a subservicer of mortgage loans we perform the responsibilities of a primary
servicer but do not own the corresponding primary servicing rights. We receive a fee from the primary servicer for such services. As the subservicer, we would have the same responsibilities of a primary servicer in that we would make certain
payments of property taxes and insurance premiums, default and property maintenance, as well as advances of principal and interest payments before collecting them from individual borrowers. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, outstanding
servicer advances related to subserviced loans were $140 million and $155 million, respectively, and we had a reserve for uncollected subservicer advances of $1 million and $2 million, respectively.   
  At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we were the master servicer (i.e., servicer of beneficial interests issued by mortgage
securitization entities) for 528,249 and 682,148 loans, respectively, having an aggregate unpaid principal balance of $72.6 billion and $94.6 billion, respectively. In many cases, where we act as master servicer, we also act as
primary servicer. In connection with our master-servicing activities, we service the mortgage-backed and mortgage-related asset-backed securities and whole-loan packages sold to investors. As the master servicer, we collect mortgage loan payments
from primary servicers and distribute those funds to investors in the mortgage-backed and mortgage-related asset-backed securities and whole-loan packages. As the master servicer, we are required to advance scheduled payments to the securitization
trust or whole-loan investors. To the extent the primary servicer does not advance the payments, we are responsible for advancing the payment to the trust or whole-loan investors. Master-servicing advances, including contractual interest, are
priority cash flows in the event of a default, thus making their collection reasonably assured. In most cases, we are required to advance these payments to the point of liquidation of the loan or reimbursement of the trust or whole-loan investors.
We had outstanding master-servicing advances of $90 million and $47 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We had no reserve for uncollected master-servicing advances at December 31, 2010 or 2009.
      Serviced Mortgage Assets       Our total serviced mortgage assets consist of primary, master and subservicing activities as follows.       

Loans owned by us and we are the primary servicer.    These loans are categorized as loans held-for-sale or consumer finance
receivables and loans. Included in consumer finance receivables and loans are on-balance sheet securitization entities. Our loans held-for-sale and consumer finance receivable and loan portfolios are discussed in further detail in Note 8 and
Note 9, respectively.          

Loans sold to third-party investors where we have retained primary servicing.    The loans sold to a third-party investor were sold
through an off-balance sheet securitization entity or a whole-loan transaction.          

Loans that have never been and currently are not owned by us but the primary servicing rights have been purchased.    In the case of
purchased servicing rights, there is no recourse to us outside of customary contractual provisions relating to the execution of the services we provide.      

Loans that have never been and currently are not owned by us but for which we act as subservicer under contractual agreements with the primary
servicer.    In these cases, loans are not recorded on our Consolidated Balance Sheet. In the case of subservicing rights, there is no recourse to us outside of customary contractual provisions relating to the execution of the services
we provide.         In many cases we act as both the primary and master servicer. However, in certain cases, we
also service loans that have been purchased and subsequently sold through a securitization trust or whole-loan sale whereby the originator retained the primary servicing rights and we retained the master-servicing rights.   
         54   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The unpaid principal balance of our serviced mortgage assets were as follows.
      
    Our Mortgage operations that conduct primary and master-servicing activities are required to maintain
certain servicer ratings in accordance with master agreements entered into with GSEs. At December 31, 2010, our Mortgage operations were in compliance with the servicer-rating requirements of the master agreements.   
  In certain domestic securitizations of our Mortgage operations, the surety or other provider of contractual credit support is entitled to
declare a servicer default and terminate the servicer upon the failure of the loans to meet certain portfolio delinquency and/or cumulative-loss thresholds. Our Mortgage operations received notice of termination from surety providers with respect to
securitizations having an unpaid principal balance of $346 million and $4.8 billion during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.       Automobile Servicing Activities       We service consumer automobile contracts.
Historically, we have sold a portion of the consumer automobile contracts that we originated. With respect to contracts we sell, we retain the right to service and earn a servicing fee for our servicing function. Typically, we conclude that the fee
we are paid for servicing consumer automobile finance receivables represents adequate compensation, and consequently, we do not recognize a servicing asset or liability. We recognized automobile servicing fees of $231 million,
$237 million, and $295 million during the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.   
         55   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Automobile Serviced Assets    
  The total serviced automobile assets were as follows.       

13.   
   Premiums Receivable and Other Insurance Assets         Premiums receivable and other insurance assets consisted of the following.       
     
    The
components of other assets were as follows.       

(a)  
  Represents cash collection from customer payments on securitized receivables. These funds are distributed to investors as payments on the related secured debt.

(b)  
  Represents credit enhancement in the form of cash reserves for various securitization transactions we have executed.     
         56   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The changes in the carrying amounts of goodwill for the periods shown were as follows.

(a)  
  The impairment losses of our Insurance operations were reported as loss from discontinued operations, net of tax, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. All other
impairment losses were reported as other operating expenses in the Consolidated Statement of Income.     

(b)  
  During the three months ended December 31, 2008, and the three months ended June 30, 2009, our Insurance operations initiated an evaluation of
goodwill for potential impairment, which was in addition to our annual impairment evaluation. These tests were initiated in light of a more-than-likely expectation that a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit will be sold. The
fair value was determined using offers provided by willing purchasers. Based on the preliminary results of the assessments, our Insurance operations concluded that the carrying value of these reporting units exceeded the fair value resulting in an
impairment loss during both 2008 and 2009.     

(c)  
  Net of accumulated impairment losses of $649 million for Insurance operations.     

15.   
   Deposit Liabilities      
  Deposit liabilities consisted of the following.       
 
         57   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   Noninterest-bearing deposits primarily represent third-party escrows associated with our
mortgage loan-servicing portfolio. The escrow deposits are not subject to an executed agreement and can be withdrawn without penalty at any time. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, certificates of deposit included $7.0 billion and
$4.8 billion, respectively, of domestic certificates of deposit in denominations of $100 thousand or more.      The
following table presents the scheduled maturity of total certificates of deposit.       

16.   
   Short-term Borrowings      
  The following table presents the composition of our short-term borrowings portfolio.   

(a)  
  Other primarily includes nonbank secured borrowings at our Mortgage and International Automotive Finance operations.     

(b)  
  Based on the debt outstanding and the interest rate at December 31 of each year.     
         58   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

The
following tables present the composition of our long-term debt portfolio.       

(a)  
  Based on the debt outstanding and the interest rate at December 31 of each year.     

(b)  
  Includes $7.4 billion at both December 31, 2010 and 2009, guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) under the Temporary
Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP).     

(d)  
  Includes $6.4 billion of debt outstanding from the Ally Bank and, U.S. Canadian automotive secured revolving credit facilities at December 31, 2010, and
$6.1 billion outstanding from our syndicated U.S. and Canadian automotive secured revolving credit facility at December 31, 2009.     

(f)  
  Amount represents the hedge accounting adjustment of fixed-rate debt.     
 
         59   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

The following table presents the scheduled maturity of long-term debt, assuming no early redemptions will
occur. The actual payment of secured debt may vary based on the payment activity of the related pledged assets.       

(a)  
  In the second quarter of 2008, ResCap executed an exchange offer that resulted in a concession being recognized as an adjustment to the carrying value of certain new
secured notes. This concession is being amortized over the life of the new notes through a reduction to interest expense using an effective yield methodology.        The following table presents the scheduled maturity of long-term debt held by ResCap, assuming no early redemptions will occur. The actual payment of secured debt may vary based on the payment activity of
the related pledged assets.       
    To achieve the desired balance between fixed- and variable-rate debt, we utilize interest rate swap
agreements. The use of these derivative financial instruments had the effect of synthetically converting $24.0 billion of our fixed-rate debt into variable-rate obligations and $17.5 billion of our variable-rate debt into fixed-rate
obligations at December 31, 2010. In addition, certain of our debt obligations are denominated in currencies other than the currency of the issuing country. Foreign-currency swap agreements are used to hedge exposure to changes in the
exchange rates of obligations.   
         60   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following summarizes assets restricted as collateral for the payment of the related
debt obligation primarily arising from securitization transactions accounted for as secured borrowings and repurchase agreements.       

(a)  
  Ally Bank is a component of the total column.     

(b)  
  Ally Bank has an advance agreement with the Federal Home Loan Bank of Pittsburgh (FHLB) and access to the Federal Reserve Bank Discount Window. Ally Bank had assets
pledged and restricted as collateral to the FHLB and Federal Reserve Bank totaling $15.2 billion and $22.4 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These assets were composed of consumer and commercial mortgage
finance receivables and loans, net, consumer automobile finance receivables and loans, net, and investment securities. Under the agreement with the FHLB, Ally Bank also had assets pledged as collateral under a blanket lien totaling $5.3 billion
and $1.9 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. These assets were primarily composed of mortgage servicing rights, consumer automobile finance receivables and loans, net, and other assets. Availability under these
programs is generally only for the operations of Ally Bank and cannot be used to fund the operations or liabilities of Ally or its subsidiaries.     
 
   Trust Preferred Securities       On December 30, 2009, we entered into a Securities Purchase and Exchange Agreement with the U.S. Department of Treasury (the Treasury) and GMAC Capital Trust I, a Delaware statutory
trust (the Trust), which is a finance subsidiary that is wholly owned by Ally. As part of the agreement, the Trust sold to the Treasury 2,540,000 trust preferred securities (TRUPS) issued by the Trust with an aggregate liquidation
preference of $2.5 billion. Additionally, we issued and sold to the Treasury a ten-year warrant to purchase up to 127,000 additional TRUPS with an aggregate liquidation preference of $127 million, at an initial exercise price of
$0.01 per security, which the Treasury immediately exercised in full. The TRUPS have no stated maturity date but must be redeemed upon the redemption or maturity (February 15, 2040) of the Debentures. The TRUPS are generally
nonvoting, other than voting on certain matters under certain circumstances, including generally, the adverse amendment of the amended and restated declaration of trust governing the TRUPS (the Declaration), and with respect to certain actions to be
taken upon the occurrence of certain events of default on the TRUPS or, under certain circumstances, on the Debentures. During any period in which TRUPS remain outstanding but in which distributions on the TRUPS have not been fully paid, Ally is not
permitted to (i) declare or pay dividends on; make any distributions with respect thereto; or redeem, purchase, or otherwise acquire, any of Ally s capital stock or (ii) make any payments of principal, interest, or premium on, or
repay, repurchase, or redeem any debt securities that rank on a parity with or junior in interest to the Debentures with certain specified exceptions.       Covenants and Other Requirements       We are subject to a leverage ratio under
a revolving syndicated credit facility secured by U.S. and Canadian automotive receivables. The leverage ratio covenant requires our reporting segments, excluding our Mortgage operations, to have a ratio of consolidated borrowed funds to
consolidated net worth not to exceed 11.0:1. At December 31, 2010, the leverage ratio was 3.3:1.      In secured
funding transactions, there are trigger events that could cause the debt to be prepaid at an accelerated rate or could cause our usage of the credit facility to be discontinued. The triggers are generally based on the financial health and
performance of the servicer as well as performance criteria for the pool of receivables, such as delinquency ratios, loss ratios, commercial payment rates. There were no trigger events in 2010.   
         61   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   When we issue debt securities in private offerings we are generally subject to
registration rights agreements. Under these agreements, we agree to use reasonable efforts to cause the consummation of a registered exchange offer or to file a shelf registration statement within a prescribed period. In the event that we fail to
meet these obligations, we may be required to pay additional penalty interest with respect to the covered debt during the period in which we fail to meet our contractual obligations.       Funding Facilities       We utilize both committed and uncommitted credit
facilities. The financial institutions providing the uncommitted facilities are not legally obligated to advance funds under them. The amounts outstanding under our various funding facilities are included on our Consolidated Balance Sheet.
     The total capacity in our committed funding facilities is provided by banks through private transactions. The committed
secured funding facilities can be revolving in nature and allow for additional funding during the commitment period, or they can be amortizing and do not allow for any further funding after the closing date. At December 31, 2010,
$28.8 billion of our $32.2 billion of committed capacity was revolving. Generally, our revolving facilities have a tenor of 364 days and are renewed annually.       Committed Funding Facilities        

(a)  
  Funding from committed secured facilities is available on request in the event excess collateral resides in certain facilities or is available to the extent incremental
collateral is available and contributed to the facilities.     

(b)  
  Funding is generally available for assets originated by Ally Bank or the parent company, Ally Financial Inc.     

(c)  
  Represents commitments of financial institutions to purchase U.S. automotive retail assets.     
         62   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Uncommitted Funding Facilities    
   
     Private Debt Exchange and Cash Tender Offers       On November 20, 2008, we commenced separate private exchange and cash tender offers to purchase and/or exchange certain of our and our subsidiaries (the Ally Offers) and ResCap s (the
ResCap Offers) outstanding notes held by eligible holders for cash, newly issued notes of Ally, and in the case of the Ally Offers only, preferred stock of a wholly owned Ally subsidiary.   
  In the Ally Offers, we offered to purchase and/or exchange any and all of certain old Ally notes (the Ally Old Notes) held by eligible
holders for, at the election of each eligible holder, either (a)(1) newly issued senior guaranteed notes of Ally on substantially the same terms as the applicable series of Ally Old Notes exchanged (the Guaranteed Notes), except for the
Guaranteed Notes being guaranteed by certain subsidiaries of Ally, and (2) newly issued 9% perpetual senior preferred stock (which has been subsequently reduced to 7% pursuant to the terms of such securities) with a liquidation preference of
$1,000 per share of a wholly owned nonconsolidated subsidiary of Ally (the New Preferred Stock) or (b) cash, in each case in the amounts per $1,000 principal amount of Ally Old Notes as specified in the related offering materials. To
the extent that cash required to purchase all Ally Old Notes tendered pursuant to cash elections exceeded $2 billion, each eligible holder who made a cash election had the amount of Ally Old Notes it tendered for cash accepted on a pro rata
basis across all series such that the aggregate amount of cash spent in the offers equaled $2 billion, and the balance of Ally Old Notes each such holder tendered that was not accepted for purchase for cash was exchanged into new securities as
if such holder had made a new securities election in accordance with option (a) described above.      The Guaranteed Notes
(the Note Guarantees) are guaranteed, on a joint and several basis, by GMAC Latin America Holdings LLC, GMAC International Holdings B.V., GMAC Continental LLC, IB Finance Holding Company LLC, and
Ally US LLC (each a Note Guarantor), which are all wholly owned subsidiaries of Ally. The Note Guarantees are senior obligations of each Note Guarantor and rank equally with all existing and future senior debt of each Note Guarantor.
The Note Guarantees rank senior to all subordinated debt of each Note Guarantor.      In the ResCap Offers, Ally offered to
purchase and/or exchange any and all of certain ResCap notes (the ResCap Old Notes) held by eligible holders for, at the election of each eligible holder, either (a)(1) in the case of 8.50% notes of ResCap maturing on May 15, 2010,
newly issued 7.50% senior notes of Ally due 2013 (the New Senior Notes) or (2) in the case of all other series of ResCap Old Notes, a combination of New Senior Notes and newly issued 8.00% subordinated notes of Ally due 2018 (the Subordinated
Notes), or (b) cash, in all cases in the amount of $1,000 principal amount of ResCap Old Notes as specified in the related offering materials. To the extent that cash required to purchase all ResCap Old Notes tendered pursuant to cash elections
exceeded $500 million, each eligible holder who made a cash election had the amount of ResCap Old Notes it tendered for cash accepted on a pro rata basis across all series such that the aggregate amount of cash spent in the offers equaled
$500 million, and the balance of ResCap Old notes each such holder tendered that was not accepted for purchase for cash was exchanged into new securities as if such holder had made a new securities election in accordance with option
(a) described above.   
         63   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The Ally Offers and ResCap offers (collectively, the Offers) settled on
December 31, 2008. Approximately $17.5 billion in the aggregate principal amount (or 59%) of the outstanding Ally Old Notes were validly tendered and accepted in the Ally Offers, and approximately $3.7 billion in aggregate
principal amount (or 39%) of the outstanding ResCap Old Notes were validly tendered and accepted in the ResCap Offers.      The
Ally Offers and the ResCap Offers were accounted for as a debt modification and resulted in a pretax gain on extinguishment of debt of $11.5 billion. The gain on extinguishment consisted of a $3.8 billion principal discount, a
$5.4 billion discount representing the difference between the face value and the estimated fair value of the new Ally and ResCap notes, and a $2.3 billion discount representing the difference between the face value and estimated fair value
of new preferred stock. The discount of the new Ally and ResCap notes will be amortized as interest expense over the terms of the new notes using the effective interest method. Refer to Note 1 for additional information related to the
accounting policy.       

18.   
   Reserves for Insurance Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses         The following table provides a reconciliation of the activity in the reserves for insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses.   

(a)  
  Represents the fair value of reserves of discontinued operations held-for-sale at the beginning of the year.     

(b)  
  On November 30, 2010, we entered into a loss portfolio transfer that ceded our losses and loss adjustment expenses related to business underwritten by our
international reinsurance agency, which was sold on the same date. On November 3, 2008, we entered into a loss portfolio transfer that ceded our losses and loss adjustment expenses related to business underwritten by our
U.S. reinsurance agency, which was sold on the same date. The loss portfolio transfers were accounted for as retroactive reinsurance. Retroactive reinsurance balances result from reinsurance placed to cover losses on insured events occurring
prior to the inception of a reinsurance contract.     

(d)  
  Incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses from continuing operations were adjusted as a result of changes in prior years  reserve estimates for certain assumed
reinsurance coverages, international private passenger automobile coverages, or dealer-related products.     

(e)  
  Incurred losses and loss adjustment expenses from discontinued operations were adjusted as a result of changes in prior year reserve estimates for certain private
passenger automobile coverages.     

(f)  
  Reclassification is net of reinsurance recoveries.     
         64   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

19.   
   Accrued Expenses and Other Liabilities         The components of accrued expenses and other liabilities were as follows.       
     
     Common Stock    
  Our common stock has a par value of $0.01 and there are 2,021,384 shares authorized for issuance. Our common stock is not registered
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, and there is no established trading market for the shares. The Treasury holds 73.78% of Ally common stock. The following table presents changes in the number of shares issued and outstanding.   

(a)  
  On June 30, 2009, our members  interests became common stock due to our conversion from a limited liability company to a corporation. As a result, each
unit of each class of common and preferred membership interests issued and outstanding was converted into shares of capital stock with substantially the same rights and preferences as such membership interests. Refer to Note 24 for additional
information regarding the tax impact of the conversion.     

(c)  
  On January 16, 2009, we completed a rights offering for $1.3 billion of common equity from existing Ally common shareholders.     

(e)  
  On December 29, 2008, GM and an affiliate of Cerberus Capital Management contributed to Ally $750 million of subordinated participations in a
$3.5 billion senior secured credit facility between Ally and ResCap in exchange for additional common membership interests in Ally.     
         65   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock held by the Treasury    
   Series F-2 Preferred Stock       On December 30, 2009, Ally entered into a Securities Purchase and Exchange Agreement (the Purchase Agreement) with the Treasury, pursuant to which a series of transactions occurred resulting in
the Treasury acquiring 228,750,000 shares of Ally s newly issued Fixed Rate Cumulative Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, Series F-2 (the New MCP), with a total liquidation preference of $11,437,500,000. On
December 30, 2010, the Treasury converted 110,000,000 shares of the New MCP into 531,850 shares of Ally common stock. The conversion occurred at an agreed upon rate that exceeded the initial conversion rate as defined in Exhibit H to
the Ally Certificate of Incorporation. The fair value of the additional shares was approximately $586 million and represented an inducement. The fair value of the additional common shares issued to the Treasury was determined using a
combination of valuation techniques consistent with the market approach (Level 3 fair value inputs). The market approach we used to estimate the fair value of our common stock incorporated a combination of the tangible equity and earnings
multiples from comparable publicly traded companies deemed similar to Ally (and its operating segments) and by observing comparable transactions in the marketplace. We also considered the implied valuation of our common stock based on the
December 30, 2010, conversion with the Treasury.      In connection with the conversion, the New MCP Certificate of
Designation was amended to require us to deliver additional shares to the New MCP holders upon occurrence of certain specified events. The fair value associated with this provision was $30 million and was reflected in the New MCP balance at
December 31, 2010. The fair value of the provision was determined utilizing an option pricing model using inputs and assumptions that management believes a willing market participant would use in estimating fair value (a Level 3 fair
value input).      As a result, the Treasury now holds 118,750,000 shares of the New MCP, with a total liquidation preference
of $5,937,500,000. Dividends of the New MCP accrue at 9% per annum. Dividends are payable quarterly, in arrears, only if and when declared by Ally s Board of Directors. The New MCP generally is nonvoting, other than class-voting on
certain matters under certain circumstances, including generally, the authorization of senior capital stock, the adverse amendment of the New MCP, and any exchange or reclassification involving the New MCP or merger or consolidation of Ally. Upon
conversion of the New MCP into Ally common stock, the holder would have the voting rights associated with the common stock.   
  The shares of the New MCP are convertible into common stock at the applicable conversion rate (as provided in the Certificate of
Designation) either: (i) at Ally s option, at any time or from time to time, with the prior approval of the Federal Reserve provided that Ally is not permitted to convert any shares of the New MCP held by the Treasury except (a) with
the prior written consent of the Treasury (which consent may be granted in the sole discretion of the Treasury with respect to each conversion considering such factors as it deems appropriate at such time, which may include seeking to condition the
terms on which it may provide such consent, which may include seeking an alteration of the conversion rate) or (b) pursuant to an order of the Federal Reserve compelling such a conversion; or (ii) at the option of the holder, upon the
occurrence of certain specified transactions. All shares of the New MCP that remain outstanding on December 30, 2016, will automatically convert into common stock at a conversion rate of 0.00432 common shares per share of the New MCP.
Under any conversion of the New MCP, settlement will always occur by issuance of our common stock.      Subject to the
approval of the Federal Reserve and the restrictions imposed by the terms of our other preferred stock, we may opt to redeem, in whole or in part, from time to time, the New MCP then outstanding at any time. On or before December 30, 2011,
the New MCP may be redeemed at the liquidation preference, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. After December 30, 2011, the New MCP may be redeemed at the greater of the liquidation preference, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends
or the as-converted value, as defined in the Certificate of Designation.      Subject to certain exceptions, for so long as
any shares of the New MCP are outstanding and owned by the Treasury, Ally is generally prohibited from paying certain dividends or distributions on, or redeeming, repurchasing, or acquiring its capital stock or other equity securities without the
consent of the Treasury. Additionally, Ally is generally prohibited from making any dividends or distributions on, or redeeming, repurchasing, or acquiring its capital stock or other equity securities unless all accrued and unpaid dividends for all
past dividend periods on the New MCP are fully paid.   
         66   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following table summarizes information about the New MCP.   

Preferred Stock       The
following table summarizes information about our Series G and Series A preferred stock.       
     Series G Preferred Stock       Effective June 30, 2009, and as previously disclosed, we converted (the Conversion) from a Delaware limited liability company into a Delaware corporation in accordance with applicable law. In
connection with the Conversion, the 7% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock (the Blocker Preferred) of Preferred Blocker Inc. (PBI), a wholly owned subsidiary, was required to be converted into or exchanged for preferred stock. For this
purpose, we had previously authorized for issuance its 7% Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G (the Series G Preferred Stock). Pursuant to the terms of a Certificate of Merger, effective October 15, 2009, PBI
merged with and into Ally with Ally continuing as the surviving entity. At that time, each share of the Blocker Preferred issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the merger was converted into the right to receive an equal
number of newly issued shares of Series G Preferred Stock. In the aggregate, 2,576,601 shares of Series G Preferred Stock were issued to holders of the Blocker Preferred in connection with the merger. The Series G Preferred Stock
ranks equally in right of payment with each of our outstanding series of preferred stock in accordance with the terms thereof.   
  The Series G Preferred Stock accrues dividends at a rate of 7% per annum. Dividends are payable quarterly, in arrears, only if and
when declared by Ally s Board of Directors. The Series G Preferred Stock may not be redeemed prior to December 31, 2011. Subject to any other restrictions contained in the terms of any other series of stock or other agreements
that Ally is or may become subject to, on or after December 31, 2011, at Ally s option and subject to Ally having obtained any required regulatory approvals, Ally may, subject to certain conditions, redeem the Series G Preferred
Stock, in whole or in part, at any time or from time to time, upon proper notice given, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation amount plus the amount of any accrued and unpaid dividends thereon through the date of redemption. The Series G
Preferred Stock generally is nonvoting other than class-voting on certain matters under certain circumstances including generally, the authorization of senior capital stock or amendments that adversely impact the Series G Preferred Stock. Ally
is generally prohibited from making any Restricted Payments on or prior to January 1, 2014, and may only make Restricted Payments after January 1, 2014, if certain conditions are satisfied. For this purpose, Restricted Payments
include, subject to certain exceptions, any dividend payment or distribution of assets on any common stock or any redemption, purchase, or other acquisition of any shares of common stock.   
         67   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Series A Preferred Stock       A subsidiary of GM currently holds 1,021,764 shares of Ally Fixed Rate Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series A (the Series A Preferred Stock). We are required to make distributions at a rate of
10% per annum for each fiscal quarter with respect to the Series A Preferred Stock if certain conditions are met. The Ally Board of Directors is permitted to reduce any distribution to the extent required to avoid a reduction of the equity
capital of Ally below a minimum amount of equity capital as specified in our Certificate of Incorporation. In addition, with the consent of GM, the Ally Board of Directors may suspend the payment of distributions with respect to any one or more
fiscal quarters. Distributions not made do not accumulate. Ally s other series of outstanding preferred stock, outstanding debt, and certain agreements between Ally and the Treasury, limit Ally s ability to repurchase or redeem the
Series A Preferred Stock. The terms of such other stock and agreements will, under a variety of circumstances, prohibit Ally from repurchasing or redeeming any shares of the Series A Preferred Stock or will require that Ally redeem such
other series of preferred stock on a pro rata basis with any shares of the Series A Preferred Stock that it redeems. Subject to an applicable replacement capital covenant and any other restrictions contained in the terms of any other series of
stock, Ally may redeem all or any portion of the outstanding shares of Series A Preferred Stock. Any such redemption shall be at a price equal to (i) at any time prior to November 30, 2011, the sum of the liquidation amount,
multiplied by 1.03, plus any accrued but unpaid dividends, or (ii) at any time from and after November 30, 2011, the sum of the liquidation amount and any accrued but unpaid dividends. The Series A Preferred Stock generally is
nonvoting other than class voting on certain matters under certain circumstances including generally, the authorization of senior capital stock or amendments that adversely impact the Series A Preferred Stock.   

21.   
   Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)         The following table presents changes, net of tax, in each component of accumulated in other comprehensive income (loss).       

(a)  
  Represents the after-tax difference between the fair value and amortized cost of our available-for-sale securities portfolio.     

22.   
   Regulatory Capital and Other Regulatory Matters         As a bank holding company, we and our wholly owned banking subsidiary, Ally Bank, are subject to risk-based capital and leverage guidelines issued by federal and state banking regulators that require that
our capital-to-assets ratios meet certain minimum standards. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory and possibly additional   
         68   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

discretionary action by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct material effect on our consolidated financial statements or the results of operations and financial condition of Ally
Bank. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, we must meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of our assets and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under
regulatory accounting practices. Our capital amounts and classifications are also subject to qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk-weightings, and other factors.   
  The risk-based capital ratios are determined by allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet financial instruments into several
broad risk categories with higher levels of capital being required for the categories, which presents greater risk. Under the guidelines, total capital is divided into two tiers: Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 capital
generally consists of common equity, minority interests, and qualifying preferred stock (including fixed-rate cumulative preferred stock issued and sold to the Treasury) less goodwill and other adjustments. Tier 2 capital generally consists of
preferred stock not qualifying as Tier 1 capital, limited amounts of subordinated debt and the allowance for loan losses, and other adjustments. The amount of Tier 2 capital may not exceed the amount of Tier 1 capital.   
  Total risk-based capital is the sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital. Under the guidelines, banking organizations are required to
maintain a minimum Total risk-based capital ratio (total capital to risk-weighted assets) of 8% and a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of 4%.      The federal banking regulators also have established minimum leverage ratio guidelines. The leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets (which reflect
adjustments for disallowed goodwill and certain intangible assets). The minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio is 3% or 4% depending on factors specified in the regulations.      A banking institution meets the regulatory definition of  well-capitalized  when its Total risk-based capital ratio equals or exceeds 10% and its Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio equals or
exceeds 6% unless subject to a regulatory directive to maintain higher capital levels and for insured depository institutions, a leverage ratio that equals or exceeds 5%.      In conjunction with the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program (S-CAP), the banking regulators have developed a new measure of capital called  Tier 1 common  defined as Tier 1 capital
less noncommon elements including qualified perpetual preferred stock, qualifying minority interest in subsidiaries, and qualifying trust preferred securities.      On October 29, 2010, Ally, IB Finance Holding Company, LLC, Ally Bank, and the FDIC entered into a Capital and Liquidity Maintenance Agreement (CLMA) that supersedes an original
agreement dated July 21, 2008. The CLMA requires capital at Ally Bank to be maintained at a level such that Ally Bank s leverage ratio is at least 15%, which is consistent with capital requirements currently applicable to Ally Bank
and thus does not impose any additional capital requirements. For this purpose, the leverage ratio is determined in accordance with the FDIC s regulations related to capital maintenance.   
  Additionally, on May 21, 2009, the Federal Reserve Board (FRB) granted Ally Bank an expanded exemption from
Section 23A of the Federal Reserve Act and the FRB s Regulation W. The exemption enables Ally Bank to make certain extensions of credit to consumers for the purchase of GM vehicles or vehicles floorplanned by Ally and to provide floorplan
financing for the purchase of GM vehicles, subject to certain limitations. The exemption requires Ally to maintain a Total risk-based capital ratio of 15% and Ally Bank to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of 15%.   
  On January 28, 2010, the federal banking agencies published a final rule amending the risk-based capital guidelines associated
with the implementation of ASU 2009-17. The rule permits banking organizations to phase in the effects of the consolidation on risk-weighted assets and also makes provisions associated with the impact of allowance for loan and lease losses
effects on Tier 2 capital during 2010. Ally elected to utilize this optional phase-in approach. After full implementation of the phase-in on January 1, 2011, we will continue to be in compliance with all required minimum ratios. Refer
to Note 1 for additional information related to the adoption of ASU 2009-17.   
         69   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following table summarizes our capital ratios.   
   
    n/a = not applicable   

(a)  
  Ally, in accordance with the FRB exemption from Section 23A, is required to maintain a Total risk-based capital ratio of 15%.     

(b)  
  Federal regulatory reporting guidelines require the calculation of adjusted average assets using a daily average methodology. We currently calculate using a combination
of monthly and daily average methodologies. We are in the process of modifying information systems to address the daily average requirement.     

(c)  
  There is no Tier 1 leverage component in the definition of a well-capitalized bank holding company.     

(d)  
  Ally Bank, in accordance with the FRB exemption from Section 23A, is required to maintain a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 15%.     
  At December 31, 2010, Ally and Ally Bank were  well-capitalized  and met all capital requirements to which we were
subject.       Basel Capital Accord       The minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the federal banking agencies follow the Capital Accord of the Bank for International Settlements  Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel
Committee). The Capital Accord was published in 1988 and generally applies to depository institutions and their holding companies in the United States. In 2004, the Basel Committee published a revision to the Capital Accord (Basel II). The goal
of the Basel II capital rules is to provide more risk-sensitive regulatory capital calculations and promote enhanced risk management practices among large, internationally active banking organizations. U.S. banking regulators published
final Basel II rules in December 2007. Ally is required to comply with the Basel II rules, as implemented by the U.S. banking regulators. Prior to full implementation of the Basel II rules, Ally is required to complete a
qualification period of four consecutive quarters during which it needs to demonstrate that it meets the requirements of the rules to the satisfaction of its primary U.S. banking regulator. The U.S. implementation timetable consists of the
qualification period followed by a minimum transition period of three years. During the transition period, Basel II risk-based capital requirements cannot fall below certain floors based on pre-existing capital regulations (Basel I). Ally
is currently in the qualification period and expects to be in compliance with all relevant Basel II rules within the established timelines.      In addition to Basel II, the Basel Committee recently adopted new capital, leverage and liquidity guidelines under the Basel Accord (Basel III), which, when implemented in the United States, may
have the effect of raising capital requirements beyond those required by current law and the Dodd-Frank Act. Basel III increases the minimum Tier 1 common equity ratio to 4.5%, net of regulatory deductions, and introduces a capital
conservation buffer of an additional 2.5% of common equity to risk-weighted assets, raising the target minimum common equity ratio to 7.0%. Basel III increases the minimum Tier 1 capital ratio to 8.5% inclusive of the capital conservation
buffer, increases the minimum total capital ratio to 10.5% inclusive of the capital buffer, and introduces a countercyclical capital buffer of up to 2.5% of common equity or other fully loss absorbing capital for periods of excess credit growth.
Basel III also introduces a nonrisk adjusted Tier 1 leverage ratio of 3%, based on a   
         70   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

measure of the total exposure rather than total assets, and new liquidity standards. The Basel III capital, leverage and liquidity standards will be phased in over a multiyear period. The
Basel III rules, when implemented, will also impose a 15% cap on the amount of Tier 1 capital that can be met, in the aggregate, through significant investments in the common shares of unconsolidated financial subsidiaries, MSRs and
deferred tax assets through timing differences. In addition, under Basel III rules, after a ten-year phase out period beginning on January 13, 2013, trust preferred and other  hybrid  securities will no longer qualify as
Tier 1 capital.       International Banks, Finance Companies, and Other Foreign Operations    
  Certain of our foreign subsidiaries operate in local markets as either banks or regulated finance companies and are subject to regulatory
restrictions. These regulatory restrictions, among other things, require that our subsidiaries meet certain minimum capital requirements and may restrict dividend distributions and ownership of certain assets. Total assets of our regulated
international banks and finance companies were approximately $14.5 billion and $13.6 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In addition, the Bank Holding Company Act imposes restrictions on Ally s ability to
invest equity abroad without FRB approval. Many of our other operations are also heavily regulated in many jurisdictions outside the United States.       Depository Institutions       On December 24, 2008, Ally Bank received
approval from the Utah Department of Financial Institutions (UDFI) to convert from an industrial bank to a commercial nonmember state-chartered bank. Ally Bank s deposits are insured by the FDIC, and Ally Bank is required to file periodic
reports with the FDIC concerning its financial condition. Total assets of Ally Bank were $70.3 billion and $55.3 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
  Ally Bank is subject to Utah law (and, in certain instances, federal law) which places restrictions and limitations on the amount of
dividends or other distributions. Ally did not receive any dividends from Ally Bank in 2010 or 2009.      The Federal Reserve Bank
requires banks to maintain minimum average reserve balances. The amount of the required reserve balance for Ally Bank was $2.4 million and $34.3 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.   
   U.S. Mortgage Business    
  Our U.S. mortgage business is subject to extensive federal, state, and local laws, rules, and regulations, in addition to judicial and
administrative decisions that impose requirements and restrictions on this business. As a Federal Housing Administration lender, certain of our U.S. mortgage subsidiaries are required to submit audited financial statements to the Department of
Housing and Urban Development on an annual basis. It is also subject to examination by the Federal Housing Commissioner to assure compliance with Federal Housing Administration regulations, policies, and procedures. The federal, state, and local
laws, rules, and regulations to which our U.S. mortgage business is subject, among other things, impose licensing obligations and financial requirements; limit the interest rates, finance charges, and other fees that can be charged; regulate
the use of credit reports and the reporting of credit information; impose underwriting requirements; regulate marketing techniques and practices; require the safeguarding of nonpublic information about customers; and regulate servicing practices,
including the assessment, collection, foreclosure, claims handling, and investment and interest payments on escrow accounts.   
  Certain of our mortgage subsidiaries are required to maintain regulatory net worth requirements. Failure to meet minimum capital
requirements can initiate certain mandatory actions by federal, state, and foreign agencies that could have a material effect on our results of operations and financial condition. These entities were in compliance with these requirements at
December 31, 2010.       Insurance Companies       Our Insurance operations are subject to certain minimum aggregate capital requirements, net asset and dividend restrictions under applicable state and foreign insurance law, and the rules and regulations
promulgated by various U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies. Under various state and foreign insurance regulations, dividend distributions may be made only from statutory unassigned surplus, with approvals required from the regulatory authorities
for dividends in excess of certain statutory limitations. At December 31, 2010, the maximum dividend that could be paid by the insurance subsidiaries over the next twelve months without prior statutory approval was $190 million.
  
         71   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

23.   
   Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities         We enter into interest rate and foreign-currency swaps, futures, forwards, options, and swaptions in connection with our market risk management activities. Derivative instruments are used to manage
interest rate risk relating to specific groups of assets and liabilities, including investment securities, MSRs, debt, and deposits. In addition, we use foreign exchange contracts to mitigate foreign-currency risk associated with
foreign-currency-denominated debt, foreign exchange transactions, and our net investment in foreign subsidiaries. Our primary objective for utilizing derivative financial instruments is to manage market risk volatility associated with interest rate
and foreign-currency risks related to the assets and liabilities.       Interest Rate Risk    
  We execute interest rate swaps to modify our exposure to interest rate risk by converting certain fixed-rate instruments to a variable
rate. We apply hedge accounting for certain derivative instruments used to hedge fixed-rate debt. We monitor our mix of fixed- and variable-rate debt in relation to the rate profile of our assets. When it is cost effective to do so, we may enter
into interest rate swaps to achieve our desired mix of fixed- and variable-rate debt. Our qualifying accounting hedges consist of hedges of fixed-rate debt obligations in which receive-fixed swaps are designated as hedges of specific fixed-rate debt
obligations.      We enter into economic hedges to mitigate exposure for the following categories.   

MSRs and retained interests     Our MSRs and retained interest portfolios are generally subject to loss in value when mortgage
rates decline. Declining mortgage rates generally result in an increase in refinancing activity that increases prepayments and results in a decline in the value of MSRs and retained interests. To mitigate the impact of this risk, we maintain a
portfolio of financial instruments, primarily derivatives that increase in value when interest rates decline. The primary objective is to minimize the overall risk of loss in the value of MSRs due to the change in fair value caused by interest rate
changes and their interrelated impact to prepayments.         We use a multitude of derivative
instruments to manage the interest rate risk related to MSRs and retained interests. They include, but are not limited to, interest rate futures contracts, call or put options on U.S. Treasuries, swaptions, mortgage-backed securities (MBS)
futures, U.S. Treasury futures, interest rate swaps, interest rate floors, and interest rate caps. We monitor and actively manage our risk on a daily basis, and therefore trading volume can be large.   

Mortgage loan commitments and mortgage and automobile loans held-for-sale     We are exposed to interest rate risk from the time
an interest rate lock commitment (IRLC) is made until the time the mortgage loan is sold. Changes in interest rates impact the market price for our loans; as market interest rates decline, the value of existing IRLCs and loans held-for-sale go
up and vice versa. Our primary objective in risk management activities related to IRLCs and mortgage loans held-for-sale is to eliminate or greatly reduce any interest rate risk associated with these items.      
  The primary derivative instrument we use to accomplish the risk management objective for mortgage loans and IRLCs is
forward sales of mortgage-backed securities, primarily Fannie Mae or Freddie Mac to-be-announced securities. These instruments typically are entered into at the time the IRLC is made. The value of the forward sales contracts moves in the opposite
direction of the value of our IRLCs and mortgage loans held-for-sale. We also use other derivatives, such as interest rate swaps, options, and futures, to economically hedge certain portions of the mortgage portfolio. Nonderivative instruments may
also be periodically used to economically hedge the mortgage portfolio, such as short positions on U.S. Treasuries. We monitor and actively manage our risk on a daily basis. We do not apply hedge accounting to this derivative portfolio.
     Our automotive whole-loan forward flow agreements, which represented the commitment of financial institutions
to purchase U.S. automotive retail assets, expired during 2010. We completed the final transaction under these arrangements in October 2010.   
         72   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

Debt     As part of our previous on-balance sheet securitizations and/or secured aggregation facilities, certain interest rate
swaps or interest rate caps were included within consolidated variable interest entities; these swaps or caps were generally required to meet certain rating agency requirements or were required by the facility lender or provider. The interest rate
swaps and/or caps are generally entered into when the debt is issued; accordingly, current trading activity on this particular derivative portfolio is minimal. Additionally, effective January 1, 2010, the derivatives that were hedging
certain of our off-balance sheet securitization activities are now hedging these securitizations as on-balance sheet securitization activities. We consolidated the off-balance sheet securitizations on January 1, 2010, due to accounting
principle changes associated with ASU 2009-17. Refer to Note 1 and Note 11 for additional information related to the recent adoption and subsequent reassessments.      
  With the exception of a portion of our fixed-rate debt, we do not apply hedge accounting to our derivative portfolio held
to economically hedge our debt portfolio. Typically, the significant terms of the interest rate swaps match the significant terms of the underlying debt resulting in an effective conversion of the rate of the related debt.   

Other     We enter into futures, options, and swaptions to economically hedge our net fixed versus variable interest rate
exposure. We also enter into equity options to economically hedge our exposure to the equity markets.          Foreign Currency
Risk       We enter into derivative financial instrument contracts to hedge exposure to variability in cash flows related to
foreign-currency financial instruments. Currency swaps and forwards are used to hedge foreign exchange exposure on foreign-currency-denominated debt by converting the funding currency to the same currency of the assets being financed. Similar to our
interest rate hedges, the swaps are generally entered into or traded concurrent with the debt issuance with the terms of the swap matching the terms of the underlying debt.      Our foreign subsidiaries maintain both assets and liabilities in local currencies; these local currencies are generally the subsidiaries  functional currencies for accounting purposes.
Foreign-currency exchange-rate gains and losses arise when the assets or liabilities of our subsidiaries are denominated in currencies that differ from its functional currency. In addition, our equity is impacted by the cumulative translation
adjustments resulting from the translation of foreign subsidiary results; this impact is reflected in our other comprehensive income (loss). We enter into foreign-currency forwards and option-based contracts with external counterparties to hedge
foreign exchange exposure on our net investments in foreign subsidiaries. Our net investment hedges are recorded at fair value with changes recorded to other comprehensive income (loss) with the exception of the spot to forward difference that is
recorded in current period earnings. The net derivative gain or loss remains in other comprehensive income (loss) until earnings are impacted by the sale or the liquidation of the associated foreign operation.   
  In addition, we have a centralized lending program to manage liquidity for all of our subsidiary businesses. Foreign-currency-denominated
loan agreements are executed with our foreign subsidiaries in their local currencies. We evaluate our foreign-currency exposure resulting from intercompany lending and manage our currency risk exposure by entering into foreign-currency derivatives
with external counterparties. Our foreign-currency derivatives are recorded at fair value with changes recorded as income offsetting the gains and losses on the hedged foreign-currency transactions.   
  Except for our net investment hedges, we generally elected not to treat any foreign-currency derivatives as hedges for accounting
purposes principally because the changes in the fair values of the foreign-currency swaps are substantially offset by the foreign-currency revaluation gains and losses of the underlying assets and liabilities.   
   Credit Risk       Derivative
financial instruments contain an element of credit risk if counterparties are unable to meet the terms of the agreements. Credit risk associated with derivative financial instruments is measured as the net replacement cost should the counterparties
that owe us under the contract completely fail to perform under the terms of those contracts, assuming no recoveries of underlying collateral as measured by the market value of the derivative financial instrument.   
  To further mitigate the risk of counterparty default, we maintain collateral agreements with certain counterparties. The agreements
require both parties to maintain collateral in the event the fair values of the derivative financial instruments meet established thresholds. In the event that either party defaults on the obligation, the secured party may seize the collateral.
  
         73   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

Generally, our collateral arrangements are bilateral such that we and the counterparty post collateral for the value of their total obligation to each other. Contractual terms provide for
standard and customary exchange of collateral based on changes in the market value of the outstanding derivatives. The securing party posts additional collateral when their obligation rises or removes collateral when it falls. We also have
unilateral collateral agreements whereby we are the only entity required to post collateral.      Certain derivative instruments
contain provisions that require us to either post additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding liability balances upon the occurrence of a specified credit risk-related event. If a credit risk related event had been triggered at
December 31, 2010, the amount of additional collateral required to be posted by us would have been insignificant.      We
placed cash and securities collateral totaling $1.6 billion and $1.8 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in accounts maintained by counterparties. We received cash collateral from counterparties totaling
$916 million and $432 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The receivables for collateral placed and the payables for collateral received are included on our Consolidated Balance Sheet in other assets and accrued
expenses and other liabilities, respectively. In certain circumstances, we receive or post securities as collateral with counterparties. We do not record such collateral received on our Consolidated Balance Sheet unless certain conditions are met.
At December 31, 2010 and 2009, we received noncash collateral of $29 million and $107 million, respectively.       Balance Sheet
Presentation       The following tables summarize the fair value amounts of derivative instruments reported on our Consolidated
Balance Sheet. The fair value amounts are presented on a gross basis, are segregated by derivatives that are designated and qualifying as hedging instruments or those that are not, and are further segregated by type of contract within those two
categories.       

(b)  
  Reported as accrued expenses and other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Includes accrued interest of $23 million and $91 million at
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.     
         74   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Statement of Income Presentation and Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income    
  The following table summarizes the location and amounts of gains and losses reported in our Consolidated Statement of Income on derivative
instruments.       

(a)  
  Amounts exclude gains of $329 million and $535 million for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to interest for
qualifying accounting hedges of debt, which are primarily offset by the fixed coupon payment on the long-term debt.     

(c)  
  Amounts exclude losses of $14 million and gains of $632 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and 2009, respectively, related to the
revaluation of the related foreign-denominated debt or receivable.     
         75   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following table summarizes derivative instruments used in cash flow hedge accounting
relationships and net investment hedge accounting relationships.       

Year ended December 31,  ($ in millions)   
      
   2010   

2009    

Cash flow hedges   

Foreign exchange contracts   

Net gain (loss) recognized in other comprehensive income (a)   
      
   $   
   4   

$  
  10  

Net investment hedges   

Foreign exchange contracts   

Gain reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income to other income, net of losses   
      
   $   
   12   

$  

Loss recorded directly to other income, net of losses (b)   

(18   
   )    

Total other income, net of losses   
      
   $   
   (6   
   )    
     
  $  

Loss recognized in other comprehensive income (c)   
      
   $   
   (183   
   )    
     
  $  
  (32  
  )    

(a)  
  The amount for the year ended December 31, 2010, represents gains of $111 million related to the effective portion of cash flow hedges offset by the
reclassification of accumulated gains totaling $107 million from accumulated other comprehensive income on our Consolidated Balance Sheet to other income, net of losses on the Consolidated Statement of Income. The amount for the year ended
December 31, 2009, represents losses of $18 million related to the effective portion of cash flow hedges offset by the reclassification of accumulated losses totaling $28 million from accumulated other comprehensive income on our
Consolidated Balance Sheet to other income, net of losses on the Consolidated Statement of Income. The reclassified amounts completely offset the effective portion related to the revaluation of the related foreign-denominated debt. The amount of
hedge ineffectiveness on cash flow hedges during the years ended December 31, 2010, and 2009, was insignificant.     

(b)  
  The amounts represent the forward points excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.     

(c)  
  The amounts represent the effective portion of net investment hedges during the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. There are offsetting gains recognized in
accumulated other comprehensive income of $187 million and $1 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, related to the revaluation of the related net investment in foreign operations. The amount of
hedge ineffectiveness on net investment hedges during the years ended December 31, 2010, and 2009, was insignificant.         
    Effective
June 30, 2009, we converted from a limited liability company (LLC) to a corporation (the Conversion). Prior to the Conversion, most of our U.S. entities were pass-through entities for U.S. federal income tax purposes.
U.S. federal, state, and local income taxes were generally not provided for these entities as they were not taxable entities except in a few local jurisdictions that tax LLCs or partnerships. LLC members were required to report their share
of our taxable income on their respective income tax returns. As a result of the Conversion, we became subject to corporate U.S. federal, state, and local taxes beginning in the third quarter of 2009.   
  Deferred tax assets and liabilities result from temporary differences between assets and liabilities measured for financial reporting
purposes and those measured for income tax return purposes. The Conversion resulted in a $1.2 billion increase in income tax expense related to the establishment of deferred tax liabilities and assets of $2.5 billion and $1.3 billion,
respectively. Our banking, insurance, and foreign subsidiaries generally were and continue to be corporations that are subject to U.S. and foreign income taxes and are required to provide for these taxes. The Conversion did not change the tax status
of these subsidiaries.   
         76   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The significant components of income tax expense (benefit) from continuing operations
were as follows.       
    A reconciliation of the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate to our effective income tax rate for
continuing operations is shown in the following table.       
    At December 31, 2010, we had U.S. federal and state net operating and capital loss carryforwards
of $1.4 billion and $2.3 billion, respectively. The federal net operating loss carryforwards expire in the years 2025 2030. The capital loss carryforwards expire in the years 2013 2015. The corresponding expiration periods for
the state operating and capital loss carryforwards are 2014 2030 and 2014 2015, respectively. Additionally, foreign tax credits carryforwards of $123 million are available as of December 31, 2010, in the United States and
expire in the years 2012 2020.      Also, at December 31, 2010, we had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of
$1.7 billion. The foreign operating loss carryforwards of $1.1 billion in the United Kingdom, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Denmark, and Sweden have an indefinite carryforward period. The Canadian loss carryforwards of $0.4 billion expire
in the years 2024 2030. The remaining net operating loss carryforwards of $0.2 billion expire in the years 2011 2025.      We assessed the available positive and negative evidence to estimate if sufficient future taxable income of the appropriate character will be generated to utilize the existing deferred tax assets. A
significant piece of objective negative evidence evaluated for certain tax jurisdictions that have legal entities with net deferred tax assets was the cumulative loss incurred over the three-year period ended December 31, 2010 and the
absence of any available tax-planning strategies. This objective negative evidence outweighed the positive evidence, which was more subjective in nature.   
         77   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   Based on this assessment, valuation allowances have been recorded against our domestic
net deferred tax assets and certain international net deferred tax assets. However, the amount of the net deferred tax asset considered realizable could change in the future depending on actual taxable income or capital gains and other relevant
factors. In particular, it is reasonably possible that we will reverse, within the next twelve months, a valuation allowance recorded on net deferred tax assets of our Canadian subsidiary totaling $92 million at December 31, 2010.
Included within tax expense was a benefit of $144 million in 2010, and charges of $2.1 billion in 2009 and $139 million in 2008 to adjust valuation allowances reflecting our judgment that certain tax assets will not be realized.
     The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities are reflected in the following table.   
   
    Foreign pretax income totaled $0.6 billion in 2010, and foreign pretax losses totaled $1.7 billion
and $2.2 billion in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Foreign pretax income is subject to U.S. taxation when effectively repatriated. Through the Conversion date, our U.S. incorporated insurance and banking operations provided federal
income taxes on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries to the extent these earnings were not deemed indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. It was the responsibility of our members to provide for federal income taxes on the
undistributed foreign subsidiary earnings of our disregarded entities to the extent the earnings was not indefinitely reinvested. Subsequent to the Conversion date, all of our domestic subsidiaries fully provide for federal income taxes on the
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries except to the extent these earnings are indefinitely reinvested outside the United States. At December 31, 2010, $4.1 billion of accumulated undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries
were indefinitely reinvested. Quantification of the unrecognized deferred tax liability for temporary differences related to investments in foreign subsidiaries that are essentially permanent in duration is not practicable.   
  Tax benefits related to positions considered uncertain are recognized only if, based on the technical merits of the issue, it is more
likely than not that we will sustain the position and then at the largest amount that is greater than 50% likely to be realized upon ultimate settlement.   
         78   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following table provides a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of
unrecognized tax benefits.       
    At December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, the balance of unrecognized tax benefits that, if
recognized, would affect our effective tax rate is $199 million, $157 million, and $148 million, respectively. Included in the unrecognized tax benefits balances are some items, the recognition of which would not affect the effective
tax rate, such as the tax effect of certain temporary differences, the portion of gross state unrecognized tax benefits that would be offset by the tax benefit of the associated federal deduction and the portion of gross foreign unrecognized tax
benefits that would be offset by tax reductions in other jurisdictions.      We recognize accrued interest and penalties related
to uncertain income tax positions in interest expense and other operating expenses, respectively. For the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, $26 million, $12 million, and $25 million, respectively, were accrued
for interest and penalties with the cumulative accrued balance totaling $201 million at December 31, 2010; $170 million at December 31, 2009; and $132 million at December 31, 2008. In addition, the
accrued balances for interest and penalties were impacted by translation adjustments on those denominated in foreign currencies.      We anticipate the examination of various U.S. income tax returns along with the examinations by various foreign, state, and local jurisdictions will be completed within the next twelve months. As
such, it is reasonably possible that certain tax positions may be settled and the unrecognized tax benefits would decrease by $121 million which includes interest and penalties.   
  We file tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and various states and foreign jurisdictions. For our most significant
operations, at December 31, 2010, the following summarizes the oldest tax years that remain subject to examination.       

25.   
   Employee Benefit and Compensation Plans      
   Defined Contribution Plan    
  A significant number of our employees are covered by defined contribution plans. Employer contributions vary based on criteria specific to
each individual plan and amounted to $62 million, $61 million, and $76 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. These costs were recorded in compensation and benefit expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Income. We expect
contributions for 2011 to be similar to contributions made in 2010.       Defined Benefit Pension Plan    
  Certain of our employees are eligible to participate in separate retirement plans that provide for pension payments upon retirement based
on factors such as length of service and salary. In recent years, we have transferred, frozen, or terminated a significant number of our other defined benefit plans. During 2009, we began the process of terminating certain of our international
pension plans that resulted in a minimal impact on earnings. All income and expense noted for pension accounting was recorded in compensation and benefits expense in our Consolidated Statement of Income.   
         79   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following summarizes information related to our pension plans.   
   
    The underfunded status of our pension plans increased in 2010 primarily due to annual changes in actuarial
assumptions, in particular, the discount rate, which were partially offset by an improvement of the fair value of plan assets as a result of market performance. The underfunded position is recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the change
in the underfunded position was recorded in other comprehensive income (loss).      Net periodic pension expense (income) includes
curtailment, settlement, and other gains and losses and was minimal for 2010, 2009, and 2008.       Other Postretirement Benefits
      Certain of our subsidiaries participated in various postretirement medical, dental, vision, and life insurance plans. We
have provided for certain amounts associated with estimated future postretirement benefits other than pensions and characterized such amounts as other postretirement benefits. Other postretirement benefits expense (income), which is recorded in
compensation and benefits expense in our Consolidated Statement of Income, was minimal in 2010, 2009, and 2008. We expect our other postretirement benefit expense to continue to be minimal in future years.   
   Share-based Compensation Plans       Based on our transactions with the Treasury during 2009, we are required to comply with the limitations on executive pay as determined by the Special Master of TARP Compensation (Special Master). As such,
we established Deferred Stock Units (DSUs) and Incentive Restricted Stock Units (IRSUs) as forms of compensation to our senior executives, which were subsequently approved by the Special Master. We also grant Restricted Stock
Units (RSUs) to executives under the Long-Term Equity Compensation Incentive Plan (LTIP). Each of our approved compensation plans and awards were designed to provide our executives with an opportunity to share in the future growth in value of
Ally, which is necessary to attract and retain key executives. These compensation plans are share-based compensation plans accounted for under ASC 718,  Compensation   Stock Compensation .   
  During 2010, Ally converted the awards associated with our share-based compensation plans from basis points to phantom shares, which
resulted in each basis point being converted to approximately 80 phantom shares. This change did not affect the vesting, fair value, or any other features of the awards. Also in 2010, Ally amended its LTIP plan documents for retirement-eligible
individuals. Individuals meeting the retirement criteria are now eligible to continue with the established vesting and payment schedule for their outstanding awards, should they retire. As such, Ally recorded an additional $6 million of
compensation expense in 2010, which would have otherwise been recognized in future periods.      In December 2010, as part of
the annual valuation process as required by the LTIP plan, Ally remeasured the award value for the outstanding stock awards from $7,812 per share to $10,342 per share. The new value was determined based on the share valuation used in the
MCP conversion transaction with the Treasury. See further discussion in Note 20. The increase in award value was approved by the Compensating, Nominating and Governance Committee (CNG Committee) and the Ally Board of Directors and resulted in
additional compensation expense for RSU, DSU, and IRSU awards of $15 million, $25 million, and $3 million, respectively, recognized in December 2010.      RSU awards are incentive awards granted to executives as phantom shares of Ally. The majority of awards granted in 2008 and 2009 vest ratably on an annual basis based on continued service on
December 31 with the final tranche vesting on December 31, 2012. Awards granted in 2010 vest ratably over a three-year period starting on the date the award was issued with the majority of the awards fully vesting in
February 2013. Participants have the option at grant date to defer the valuation and payout for any tranche until the final year of the award. Under applicable accounting rules, the awards require liability treatment and are remeasured
quarterly at fair value until they are paid. The compensation costs related to these awards are ratably charged to expense over the applicable service period. Changes in fair value related to the portion of the awards that
  
         80   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

have vested and have not been paid are recognized in earnings in the period in which the changes occur. The fair value of the awards granted during 2008 was diluted by the capital transactions
that occurred at the end of 2008. The total RSU awards outstanding at December 31, 2010, represented approximately 23,321 shares with 6,001 shares awarded during 2008, 7,249 shares awarded during 2009, and
10,071 shares awarded during 2010. The total RSU awards outstanding at December 31, 2009, represented approximately 22,455 shares with 13,265 shares awarded during 2008 and 9,190 shares awarded during 2009. We
recognized compensation expense of $63 million and $25 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively.      DSU awards are granted to senior executives as phantom shares of Ally and are included as part of their base salary. The DSU awards are granted ratably each pay period throughout the year, vest
immediately upon grant, and are paid in cash ratably each year after grant for five years. Under applicable accounting rules, the awards require liability treatment and are remeasured quarterly at fair value until they are paid, with each change in
value fully charged to compensation expense in the period in which the change occurs. The total DSU awards outstanding at December 31, 2010 and 2009, represented approximately 10,035 shares and 4,555 shares respectively. We
recognized compensation expense of $75 million and $35 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for the outstanding awards.      IRSU awards are incentive awards granted to senior executives as phantom shares of Ally. The IRSU awards cliff vest three years from the date of grant based on continued service with Ally.
The IRSU awards are paid out in 25% increments once we pay the Treasury a corresponding 25% increment of our TARP obligations. A participant must be employed by Ally at the time of the payback to receive a payout for their award. The payouts
are based on the fair value of the phantom shares at the time of payback. Under applicable accounting rules, the awards require liability treatment and are remeasured quarterly at fair value until they are paid. The compensation costs related to
these awards are ratably charged to expense over the requisite service period. Changes in fair value relating to the portion of the awards that have vested and have not been paid are recognized in earnings in the period in which the changes occur.
The total IRSU awards outstanding at December 31, 2010 and 2009, represented approximately 4,996 shares and 3,596 shares respectively. We recognized compensation expense of $10 million and $1 million for the years ended
December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, for the outstanding awards.   
         81   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

26.   
   Related Party Transactions      
  Related party activities represent transactions with GM, FIM Holdings LLC (FIM Holdings), and affiliated companies. GM and FIM
Holdings have both a direct and indirect ownership interest in Ally.       Balance Sheet    
  A summary of the balance sheet effect of transactions with GM, FIM Holdings, and affiliated companies follows.   

(a)  
  In November 2006, Ally retained an investment in a note secured by operating lease assets transferred to GM. As part of the transfer, Ally provided a note to a
trust, a wholly owned subsidiary of GM. The note was classified in investment securities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet.     

(b)  
  Represents wholesale financing and term loans to certain dealerships wholly owned by GM or in which GM has an interest. The loans are generally secured by the
underlying vehicles or assets of the dealerships.     

(c)  
  Represents wholesale financing we provide to GM for vehicles, parts, and accessories in which GM retains title while consigned to us or dealers primarily in Italy and
Germany in 2010 and in the United Kingdom and Italy in 2009. The financing to GM remains outstanding until the title is transferred to Ally or the dealers. The amount of financing provided to GM under this arrangement varies based on inventory
levels. These loans are secured by the underlying vehicles or other assets (except loans relating to parts and accessories in Italy).     

(d)  
  Primarily represents buildings classified as operating lease assets that are leased to GM-affiliated entities. These leases are secured by the underlying assets.
    
         82   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Statement of Income       A summary of the income statement effect of transactions with GM, FIM Holdings, and affiliated companies follows.       

(a)  
  Represents total amount of residual support and risk sharing (incurred) earned under the residual support and risk-sharing programs.     

(b)  
  The settlement terms related to the wholesale financing of certain GM products are at shipment date. To the extent that wholesale settlements with GM are made before
the expiration of transit, we receive interest from GM.     

(c)  
  GM sponsors lease pull-ahead programs whereby consumers are encouraged to terminate lease contracts early in conjunction with the acquisition of a new GM vehicle with
the customer s remaining payment obligation waived. For certain programs, GM compensates us for the waived payments adjusted based on remarketing results associated with the underlying vehicle.     

(d)  
  Includes income or (expense) related to derivative transactions that we enter into with GM as counterparty.     

(e)  
  Represents servicing income related to automobile leases distributed as a dividend to GM on November 22, 2006.     

(f)  
  An agreement with GM provides for the reimbursement of certain selling expenses incurred by us on off-lease vehicles sold by GM at auction.     

(g)  
  We reimburse GM for certain services, rent, and marketing expenses provided to us. This amount includes rental payments for our primary executive and administrative
offices located in the Renaissance Center in Detroit, Michigan.     
         83   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Statement of Changes in Equity    
  A summary of the changes to the statement of changes in equity related to transactions with GM, FIM Holdings, and affiliated
companies follows.       

(a)  
  On January 16, 2009, we completed a $1.25 billion rights offering pursuant to which we issued additional common membership interests to FIM Holdings
and a subsidiary of GM. On December 29, 2008, GM and an affiliate of Cerberus Capital Management contributed to Ally $750 million subordinated participations in a $3.5 billion senior secured credit facility between Ally and
ResCap in exchange for additional common membership interests in Ally.     

(b)  
  Pursuant to an operating agreement, certain of our shareholders were permitted distributions to pay the taxes they incurred from ownership of their Ally interests prior
to our conversion from a tax partnership to a corporation. In March 2009, we executed a transaction that had 2008 tax-reporting implications for our shareholders. In accordance with the operating agreement, the approvals of both our Ally Board
of Directors and the Treasury were obtained in advance for the payment of tax distributions to our shareholders. In 2010, the amount distributed to GM was $11 million. This represented an accrual for GM tax settlements and refunds received
related to tax periods prior to the November 30, 2006, sale by GM of 51% interest in Ally (Sale Transactions). Amounts distributed to GM and FIM Holdings were $220 million and $173 million, respectively, for the year ended
December 31, 2009. The 2009 amount includes $55 million of remittances to GM for tax settlements and refunds received related to tax periods prior to the Sale Transactions. The 2008 amounts primarily represent remittances to GM for
tax settlements and refunds received related to tax periods prior to the Sale Transactions as required by the terms of the Purchase and Sale Agreement between GM and FIM Holdings.     

(c)  
  Represents a reduction of the estimated payment accrued for tax distributions as a result of the completion of the GMAC LLC U.S. Return of Partnership Income
for the tax period January 1, 2009, through June 30, 2009.        GM, GM dealers, and GM-related
employees compose a significant portion of our customer base, and our Global Automotive Service operations are highly dependent on GM production and sales volume. As a result, a significant adverse change in GM s business, including significant
adverse changes in GM s liquidity position and access to the capital markets, the production or sale of GM vehicles, the quality or resale value of GM vehicles, the use of GM marketing incentives, GM s relationships with its key suppliers,
GM s relationship with the United Auto Workers and other labor unions, and other factors impacting GM or its employees could have a significant adverse effect on our profitability and financial condition.   
  We provide vehicle financing through purchases of retail automobile and lease contracts with retail customers of GM dealers. We also
finance the purchase of new and used vehicles by GM dealers through wholesale financing, extend other financing to GM dealers, provide fleet financing for GM dealers to buy vehicles they rent or lease to others, provide wholesale vehicle inventory
insurance to GM dealers, provide automotive extended service contracts through GM dealers, and offer other services to GM dealers. GM s level of automobile production and sales directly impacts our financing and leasing volume; the premium
revenue for wholesale vehicle inventory insurance; the volume of automotive extended service contracts; and the profitability and financial condition of the GM dealers to whom we provide wholesale financing, term loans, and fleet financing. In
addition, the quality of GM vehicles affects our obligations under automotive extended service contracts relating to such vehicles. Further, the resale value of GM vehicles, which may be impacted by various factors relating to GM s business
such as brand image, the number of new GM vehicles produced, the number of used vehicles remarketed, or reduction in core brands, affects the remarketing proceeds we receive upon the sale of repossessed vehicles and off-lease vehicles at lease
termination.      At December 31, 2010, we had an estimated $875 million in secured credit exposure, which included
primarily wholesale vehicle financing to GM-owned dealerships, notes receivable from GM, and vehicles leased directly to GM. We further had $691 million in unsecured exposure, which included estimates of payments from GM related to residual
support and risk-sharing agreements. Under the terms of certain agreements between Ally and GM, Ally has the right to offset certain of its exposures to GM against amounts Ally owes to GM.   
         84   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Retail and Lease Programs    
  GM may elect to sponsor incentive programs (on both retail contracts and operating leases) by supporting financing rates below the
standard market rates at which we purchase retail contracts and leases. These marketing incentives are also referred to as rate support or subvention. When GM utilizes these marketing incentives, they pay us the present value of the difference
between the customer rate and our standard rate at contract inception, which we defer and recognize as a yield adjustment over the life of the contract.      GM may also sponsor residual support programs as a way to lower customer monthly payments. Under residual support programs, the customer s contractual residual value is adjusted above our standard
residual values. In addition, under risk-sharing programs and eligible contracts, GM shares equally in residual losses at the time of the vehicle s disposal to the extent that remarketing proceeds are below our standard residual values (limited
to a floor).      For contracts where we are entitled to receive residual support, GM pays the present value of the expected
residual support owed to us at contract origination as opposed to after contract termination at the time of sale of the related vehicle. The residual support amount GM ultimately owes us is finalized as the leases actually terminate. Under the terms
of the residual support program, in cases where the estimate was incorrect, GM may be obligated to pay us, or we may be obligated to reimburse GM.      Based on the December 31, 2010, outstanding North American operating lease and retail balloon portfolios, the additional maximum contractual amount that could be paid by GM under the residual
support programs was $475 million and would be paid only in the unlikely event that the proceeds from the entire portfolio of lease assets were lower than both the contractual residual value and our standard residual rates.   
  Based on the December 31, 2010, outstanding North American operating lease portfolio, the maximum contractual amount that could
be paid under the risk-sharing arrangements was $996 million and would be paid only in the unlikely event that the proceeds from all outstanding lease vehicles were lower than our standard residual rates and no higher than the contractual
risk-sharing floor.      Retail and lease contracts acquired by us that included rate subvention from GM as a percentage of total
new GM retail and lease contracts acquired, were as follows.       

(a)  
  Represents subvention for continuing operations only.         Distribution of Operating Lease Assets       In connection with the Sale
Transactions, we transferred to GM certain U.S. lease assets, related secured debt, and other assets, respectively. We retained an investment in a note, which had an immaterial balance at December 31, 2010, which was secured by the
lease assets distributed to GM. We continue to service the assets and related secured debt on behalf of GM and receive a fee for this service. As required for other securitization transactions, we are obligated as servicer to repurchase any lease
asset that is in breach of any of the covenants of the securitization documents. In addition, in a number of the transactions securitizing the lease assets transferred to GM, the trusts issued one or more series of floating-rate debt obligations and
entered into primary derivative transactions to remove the market risk associated with funding the fixed payment lease assets with floating interest rate debt. To facilitate these securitization transactions, we entered into secondary derivative
transactions with the primary derivative counterparties essentially offsetting the primary derivatives. As part of the distribution, GM assumed the rights and obligations of the primary derivatives whereas we retained the secondary, leaving both
companies exposed to market value movements of their respective derivatives. Ally and GM subsequently entered into derivative transactions with each other intended to offset the exposure each party has to its component of the primary and secondary
derivatives. At December 31, 2010, these derivative transactions were expired.   
         85   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Exclusivity Arrangement       On November 30, 2006, and in connection with the Sale Transactions, GM and Ally entered into several service agreements that codified the mutually beneficial historical relationship between the
companies. One such agreement was the United States Consumer Financing Services Agreement (the Financing Services Agreement). The Financing Services Agreement, among other things, provided that subject to certain conditions and limitations, whenever
GM offers vehicle financing and leasing incentives to customers (e.g., lower interest rates than market rates), it would do so exclusively through Ally. This requirement is effective through November 2016, and in consideration for this,
Ally pays to GM an annual exclusivity fee and was required to meet certain targets with respect to consumer retail and lease financings of new GM vehicles.      Effective December 29, 2008, and in connection with the approval of Ally s application to become a bank holding company, GM and Ally modified certain terms and conditions of the Financing
Services Agreement. Certain of these amendments include the following : (1) for a two-year period, GM can offer retail financing incentive programs through a third-party financing source under certain specified circumstances and, in some cases,
subject to the limitation that pricing offered by such third party meets certain restrictions, and after such two-year period GM can offer any such incentive programs on a graduated basis through third parties on nonexclusive, side-by-side basis
with Ally, provided that pricing of such third parties meets certain requirements; (2) Ally will have no obligation to provide operating lease products; and (3) Ally will have no targets against which it could be assessed penalties. After
December 31, 2013, GM will have the right to offer retail financing incentive programs through any third-party financing source, including Ally, without any restrictions or limitations. A primary objective of the Financing Services
Agreement continues to be supporting distribution and marketing of GM products.       Royalty Agreement    
  For certain insurance products, GM and Ally have entered into the Intellectual Property License Agreement for the right of Ally to use the
GM name on certain insurance products. In exchange, Ally will pay to GM a minimum annual guaranteed royalty fee of $15 million.       Other
      GM provides payment guarantees on certain commercial assets we have outstanding with certain third-party customers. At
December 31, 2010 and 2009, commercial obligations guaranteed by GM were $122 million and $68 million, respectively. Additionally, GM is bound by repurchase obligations to repurchase new vehicle inventory under certain
circumstances, such as dealer franchise termination.       
     Fair Value Measurements
      For purposes of this disclosure, fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability (exit price) in the principal or most advantageous market in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair value is based on the assumptions market participants would use when pricing
an asset or liability. Additionally, entities are required to consider all aspects of nonperformance risk, including the entity s own credit standing, when measuring the fair value of a liability.   
  GAAP specifies a three-level hierarchy that is used when measuring and disclosing fair value. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest
priority to quoted prices available in active markets (i.e., observable inputs) and the lowest priority to data lacking transparency (i.e., unobservable inputs). An instrument s categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based on the
lowest level of significant input to its valuation. The following is a description of the three hierarchy levels.       

Level 1  
      
  Inputs are quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities at the measurement date. Additionally, the entity must have the ability to access the active market,
and the quoted prices cannot be adjusted by the entity.    
         86   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

Level 2  
      
  Inputs are other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices
in active markets for similar assets or liabilities; quoted prices in inactive markets for identical or similar assets or liabilities; or inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means for
substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities.   

Level 3  
      
  Unobservable inputs are supported by little or no market activity. The unobservable inputs represent management s best assumptions of how market participants would price the
assets or liabilities. Generally, Level 3 assets and liabilities are valued using pricing models, discounted cash flow methodologies, or similar techniques that require significant judgment or estimation.   

Transfers  
      
  Transfers into or out of any hierarchy level are recognized at the end of the reporting period in which the transfer occurred. There were no significant transfers between any levels
during the year ended December 31, 2010.       Following are descriptions of the valuation methodologies
used to measure material assets and liabilities at fair value and details of the valuation models, key inputs to those models, and significant assumptions utilized.       

Trading securities     Trading securities are recorded at fair value. Our portfolio includes U.S. Treasury, asset-backed, and
mortgage-backed securities (including senior and subordinated interests) and may be investment- grade, noninvestment grade, or unrated securities. We base our valuation of trading securities on observable market prices when available; however,
observable market prices may not be available for a significant portion of these assets due to illiquidity in the markets. When observable market prices are not available, valuations are primarily based on internally developed discounted cash flow
models (an income approach) that use assumptions consistent with current market conditions. The valuation considers recent market transactions, experience with similar securities, current business conditions, and analysis of the underlying
collateral, as available. To estimate cash flows, we utilize various significant assumptions including market observable inputs (e.g., forward interest rates) and internally developed inputs (e.g., prepayment speeds, delinquency levels,
and credit losses).          

Available-for-sale securities     Available-for-sale securities are carried at fair value primarily based on observable market prices.
If observable market prices are not available, our valuations are based on internally developed discounted cash flow models (an income approach) that use a market-based discount rate and consider recent market transactions, experience with similar
securities, current business conditions, and analysis of the underlying collateral, as available. To estimate cash flows, we are required to utilize various significant assumptions including market observable inputs (e.g., forward interest
rates) and internally developed inputs (including prepayment speeds, delinquency levels, and credit losses).          

Loans held-for-sale, net     Our automobile loans held-for-sale are accounted for at the lower-of-cost or fair value. The automobile
loans at fair value are presented in the nonrecurring fair value measurement table. We based our valuation of automobile loans held-for-sale on internally developed discounted cash flow models (an income approach) and classified all these loans as
Level 3. These valuation models estimate the exit price we expect to receive in the loan s principal market, which depending on characteristics of the loans may be the whole-loan market or the securitization market. Although we utilize and
give priority to market observable inputs, such as interest rates and market spreads within these models, we are typically required to utilize internal inputs, such as prepayment speeds, credit losses, and discount rates. While numerous controls
exist to calibrate, corroborate, and validate these internal inputs, these internal inputs require the use of judgment and can have a significant impact on the determination of the loan s value. Accordingly, we classified all automobile loans
held-for-sale as Level 3.         Our mortgage loans held-for-sale are accounted for at either
fair value because of fair value option elections or they are accounted for at the lower-of-cost or fair value. Mortgage loans held-for-sale are typically pooled together and sold into certain exit markets depending on underlying attributes of the
loan, such as GSE eligibility (domestic   
         87   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

only), product type, interest rate, and credit quality. Two valuation methodologies are used to determine the fair value of mortgage loans held-for-sale. The methodology used depends on the exit
market as described below.       Level 2 mortgage loans    This includes all mortgage loans
measured at fair value on a recurring basis due to fair value option elections. Refer to the section in this note titled  Fair Value Option of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  for additional information. Level 2 also includes
all nonagency domestic loans or international loans where recently negotiated market prices for the loan pool exist with a counterparty (which approximates fair value) or quoted market prices for similar loans are available. As these valuations are
derived from quoted market prices, we classify these valuations as Level 2 in the fair value disclosures.   
   Level 3 mortgage loans    This includes all mortgage loans measured at fair value on a nonrecurring
basis. The fair value of these loans was determined using internally developed valuation models because observable market prices were not available. These valuation models estimate the exit price we expect to receive in the loan s principal
market, which depending on characteristics of the loan may be the whole-loan or securitization market. Although we utilize and give priority to market observable inputs such as interest rates and market spreads within these models, we are typically
required to utilize internal inputs, such as prepayment speeds, credit losses, and discount rates. While numerous controls exist to calibrate, corroborate, and validate these internal inputs, the generation of these internal inputs requires the use
of judgment and can have a significant impact on the determination of the loan s fair value. Accordingly, we classify these valuations as Level 3 in the fair value disclosures.   

Consumer mortgage finance receivables and loans, net     We elected the fair value option for certain consumer mortgage finance
receivables and loans. The elected mortgage loans collateralized on-balance sheet securitization debt in which we estimated credit reserves pertaining to securitized assets that could have exceeded or already had exceeded our economic exposure. We
also elected the fair value option for all mortgage securitization trusts required to be consolidated due to the adoption of ASU 2009-17. The elected mortgage loans represent a portion of the consumer finance receivable and loans consolidated
upon adoption of ASU 2009-17. The balance that was not elected was reported on the balance sheet at the principal amount outstanding, net of charge-offs, allowance for loan losses, and premiums or discounts.      
  Securitized mortgage loans are legally isolated from us and are beyond the reach of our creditors. The loans are measured
at fair value using a portfolio approach or an in-use premise. Values of loans held on an in-use basis may differ considerably from loans held-for-sale that can be sold in the whole-loan market. This difference arises primarily due to the liquidity
of the asset- and mortgage-backed securitization market and is evident in the fact that spreads applied to lower rated asset- and mortgage-backed securities are considerably wider than spreads observed on senior bonds classes and in the whole-loan
market. The objective in fair valuing the loans and related securitization debt is to account properly for our retained economic interest in the securitizations. As a result of reduced liquidity in capital markets, values of both these loans and the
securitized bonds are expected to be volatile. Since this approach involves the use of significant unobservable inputs, we classified all the mortgage loans elected under the fair value option as Level 3, at December 31, 2010 and
2009. Refer to the section within this note titled  Fair Value Option of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  for additional information.       

Commercial finance receivables and loans, net     We evaluate our commercial finance receivables and loans, net, for impairment.
We generally base the evaluation on the fair value of the underlying collateral supporting the loans when expected to be the sole source of repayment. When the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the collateral, an impairment loss is recognized
and reflected as a nonrecurring fair value measurement.          

MSRs     We typically retain MSRs when we sell assets into the secondary market. MSRs currently do not trade in an active market
with observable prices; therefore, we use internally developed discounted cash flow models (an income approach) to estimate the fair value of MSRs. These internal valuation models estimate net cash flows based on internal operating assumptions that
we believe would be used by market participants combined with market-based assumptions for loan prepayment rates, interest rates, and discount rates that we believe approximate yields required by investors in this asset. Cash flows primarily include
servicing fees, float income, and late fees in      
         88   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

each case less operating costs to service the loans. The estimated cash flows are discounted using an option-adjusted spread-derived discount rate.      

Interests retained in financial asset sales     Interests retained in financial asset sales are carried at fair value. The
interests retained are in securitization trusts and deferred purchase prices on the sale of whole-loans. Due to inactivity in the market, valuations are based on internally developed discounted cash flow models (an income approach) that use a
market-based discount rate. The valuation considers recent market transactions, experience with similar assets, current business conditions, and analysis of the underlying collateral, as available. To estimate cash flows, we utilize various
significant assumptions, including market observable inputs (e.g., forward interest rates) and internally developed inputs (e.g., prepayment speeds, delinquency levels, and credit losses).      

Derivative instruments     We enter into a variety of derivative financial instruments as part of our risk management strategies.
Certain of these derivatives are exchange traded, such as Eurodollar futures, or traded within highly active dealer markets, such as agency to-be-announced securities. To determine the fair value of these instruments, we utilize the exchange price
or dealer market price for the particular derivative contract; therefore, we classified these contracts as Level 1.         We also execute over-the-counter derivative contracts, such as interest rate swaps, swaptions, forwards, caps, and floors. We utilize third-party-developed valuation models that are widely accepted in the
market to value these over-the-counter derivative contracts. The specific terms of the contract and market observable inputs (such as interest rate forward curves and interpolated volatility assumptions) are entered into the model. We classified
these over-the-counter derivative contracts as Level 2 because all significant inputs into these models were market observable.      We also hold certain derivative contracts that are structured specifically to meet a particular hedging objective. These derivative contracts often are utilized to hedge risks inherent within certain
on-balance sheet securitizations. To hedge risks on particular bond classes or securitization collateral, the derivative s notional amount is often indexed to the hedged item. As a result, we typically are required to use internally developed
prepayment assumptions as an input into the model to forecast future notional amounts on these structured derivative contracts. Accordingly, we classified these derivative contracts as Level 3.   
  We are required to consider all aspects of nonperformance risk, including our own credit standing, when measuring fair
value of a liability. We consider our credit risk and the credit risk of our counterparties in the valuation of derivative instruments through a credit valuation adjustment (CVA). The CVA calculation utilizes our credit default swap spreads and
the spreads of the counterparty. Additionally, we reduce credit risk on the majority of our derivatives by entering into legally enforceable agreements that enable the posting and receiving of collateral associated with the fair value of our
derivative positions on an ongoing basis.       

Collateral placed with counterparties     Collateral in the form of investment securities are primarily carried at fair value
using quoted prices in active markets for similar assets.          

Repossessed and foreclosed assets     Foreclosed on or repossessed assets resulting from loan defaults are carried at the lower
of either cost or fair value and are included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The fair value disclosures include only assets carried at fair value.      
  The majority of assets acquired due to default are foreclosed assets. We revalue foreclosed assets on a periodic basis.
We classified properties that are valued by independent third-party appraisals as Level 2. When third-party appraisals are not obtained, valuations are typically obtained from third-party broker price opinion; however, depending on the
circumstances, the property list price or other sales price information may be used in lieu of a broker price opinion. Based on historical experience, we adjust these values downward to take into account damage and other factors that typically cause
the actual liquidation value of foreclosed properties to be less than broker price opinion or other price sources. This valuation adjustment is necessary to ensure the valuation ascribed to these assets considers unique factors and circumstances
surrounding the foreclosed asset. As a result of applying internally developed adjustments to the third-party-provided valuation of the foreclosed property, we classified these assets as Level 3 in the fair value disclosures.   
         89   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

On-balance sheet securitization debt     We elected the fair value option for certain mortgage loans held-for-investment and the
related on-balance sheet securitization debt. We value securitization debt that was elected pursuant to the fair value option and any economically retained positions using market observable prices whenever possible. The securitization debt is
principally in the form of asset- and mortgage-backed securities collateralized by the underlying mortgage loans held-for-investment. Due to the attributes of the underlying collateral and current market conditions, observable prices for these
instruments are typically not available. In these situations, we consider observed transactions as Level 2 inputs in our discounted cash flow models. Additionally, the discounted cash flow models utilize other market observable inputs, such as
interest rates, and internally derived inputs including prepayment speeds, credit losses, and discount rates. Fair value option-elected financing securitization debt is classified as Level 3 as a result of the reliance on significant
assumptions and estimates for model inputs. Refer to the section within this note titled  Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  for further information about the election. The debt that was not elected under the fair
value option is reported on the balance sheet at cost, net of premiums or discounts and issuance costs.      
         90   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Recurring Fair Value       The following tables display the assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis including financial instruments elected for the fair value option. We often economically hedge the fair
value change of our assets or liabilities with derivatives and other financial instruments. The tables below display the hedges separately from the hedged items; therefore, they do not directly display the impact of our risk management activities.

(a)  
  Our investment in any one industry did not exceed 23%.     

(b)  
  Carried at fair value due to fair value option elections.     

(c)  
  Represents collateral in the form of investment securities. Cash collateral was excluded above.     
         91   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

(a)  
  Carried at fair value due to fair value option elections.     

(b)  
  Represents collateral in the form of investment securities. Cash collateral was excluded above.     
         92   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following tables present the reconciliation for all Level 3 assets and
liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis. We often economically hedge the fair value change of our assets or liabilities with derivatives and other financial instruments. The Level 3 items presented below may be hedged by
derivatives and other financial instruments that are classified as Level 1 or Level 2. Thus, the following tables do not fully reflect the impact of our risk management activities.   

(a)  
  The fair value adjustment was reported as other (loss) gain on trading securities, net, and the related interest was reported as interest on trading securities in the
Consolidated Statement of Income.     

(b)  
  Carried at fair value due to fair value option elections. Refer to the next section of this note titled  Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Liabilities 
for the location of the gains and losses in the Consolidated Statement of Income.     

(c)  
  Fair value adjustment was reported as servicing-asset valuation and hedge activities, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income.     

(d)  
  Reported as other income, net of losses, in the Consolidated Statement of Income.     

(e)  
  Refer to Note 23 for information related to the location of the gains and losses on derivative instruments in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
    
         93   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

(a)  
  The fair value adjustment was reported as other (loss) gain on trading securities, net, and the related interest was reported as interest on trading securities in the
Consolidated Statement of Income.     

(b)  
  The fair value adjustment was reported as other gain (loss) on investment, net, and the related interest and dividends were reported as interest and dividends on
available-for-sale investment securities.     

(c)  
  Carried at fair value due to fair value option elections. Refer to the next section of this note titled  Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Liabilities 
for the location of the gains and losses in the Consolidated Statement of Income.     

(d)  
  Fair value adjustment reported as servicing-asset valuation and hedge activities, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income.     

(e)  
  Reported as other income, net of losses, in the Consolidated Statement of Income.     

(f)  
  Refer to Note 23 for information related to the location of the gains and losses on derivative instruments in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
    
         94   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Nonrecurring Fair Value       We may be required to measure certain assets at fair value from time to time. These periodic fair value measures typically result from the application of lower-of-cost or fair value accounting or certain
impairment measures. These items would constitute nonrecurring fair value measures.      The following tables display the assets
measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.       
    n/m = not meaningful   

(a)  
  Represents loans held-for-sale that are required to be measured at the lower-of-cost or fair value. The table above includes only loans with fair values below cost
during 2010. The related valuation allowance represents the cumulative adjustment to fair value of those specific assets.     

(b)  
  We consider the applicable valuation or loan loss allowance to be the most relevant indicator of the impact on earnings caused by the fair value measurement.
Accordingly, the table above excludes total gains and losses included in earnings for these items. The carrying values are inclusive of the respective valuation or loan loss allowance.     

(c)  
  Represents the portion of the portfolio specifically impaired during 2010. The related valuation allowance represents the cumulative adjustment to fair value of
those specific receivables.     

(d)  
  Represents model homes impaired during 2010. The total loss included in earnings represents adjustments to the fair value of the portfolio based on the estimated
fair value if the model home is under lease or the estimated value if the model home is marketed for sale.     

(e)  
  The allowance provided for repossessed and foreclosed assets represents any cumulative valuation adjustment recognized to adjust the assets to fair value.
    
         95   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

n/m = not meaningful   

(a)  
  Represents loans held-for-sale that are required to be measured at the lower-of-cost or fair value. The table above includes only loans with fair values below cost
during 2009. The related valuation allowance represents the cumulative adjustment to fair value of those specific assets.     

(b)  
  We consider the applicable valuation or loan loss allowance to be the most relevant indicator of the impact on earnings caused by the fair value measurement.
Accordingly, the table above excludes total gains and losses included in earnings for these items. The carrying values are inclusive of the respective valuation or loan loss allowance.     

(c)  
  Represents the portion of the portfolio specifically impaired during 2009. The related valuation allowance represents the cumulative adjustment to fair value of
those specific receivables.     

(d)  
  Represents losses recognized on the impairment of our resort finance portfolio, which provided debt capital to resort and timeshare developers.

(e)  
  Represents model homes impaired during 2009. The total loss included in earnings represents adjustments to the fair value of the portfolio based on the estimated
fair value if the model home is under lease or the estimated fair value if the model home is marketed for sale.     

(f)  
  The total gain (loss) included in earnings is the most relevant indicator of the impact on earnings.     

(g)  
  The allowance provided for repossessed and foreclosed assets represents any cumulative valuation adjustment recognized to adjust the assets to fair value.

(h)  
  Represents goodwill impaired during 2009. The impairment related to a reporting unit within our Insurance operations.     
   Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities       On January 1, 2008, we elected to measure at fair value certain domestic consumer mortgage finance receivables and loans and the related debt held in on-balance sheet mortgage securitization
structures. During the three months ended September 30, 2009, we also elected the fair value option for conforming and government-insured residential mortgage loans held-for-sale funded after July 31, 2009. As of January 1, 2010, we
elected the fair value option for all on-balance sheet mortgage securitization structures that were required to be consolidated due to the adoption of ASU 2009-17. Refer to Note 1 for additional information related to the adoption. Our
intent in electing fair value for all these items was to mitigate a divergence between accounting losses and economic exposure for certain assets and liabilities.      A description of the financial assets and liabilities elected to be measured at fair value is as follows.       

On-balance sheet mortgage securitizations     We carry the fair value-elected consumer loans as finance receivable and loans,
net, on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Our policy is to separately record interest income on the fair value-elected loans (unless the loans are placed on nonaccrual status); however, the accrued interest was excluded from the fair value
presentation. We classified the fair value adjustment recorded for the loans as other income, net of losses, in the Consolidated Statement of Income.      
  We continued to record the fair value-elected debt balances as long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Our
policy is to separately record interest expense on the fair value-elected securitization debt, which continues to be classified as interest on long-term debt in the Consolidated Statement of Income. We classified the fair value adjustment recorded
for this fair value-elected debt as other income, net of losses, in the Consolidated Statement of Income.   
         96   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

Conforming and government-insured mortgage loans held-for-sale     During the three months ended September 30,
2009, we elected the fair value option for conforming and government-insured mortgage loans held-for-sale funded after July 31, 2009. We elected the fair value option to mitigate earnings volatility by better matching the accounting for the assets
with the related hedges.         Excluded from the fair value option were conforming and
government-insured loans funded on or prior to July 31, 2009, and those repurchased or reorganized. The loans funded on or prior to July 31, 2009, were ineligible because the election must be made at the time of funding. Repurchased and
rerecognized conforming and government-insured loans were not elected because the election will not mitigate earning volatility. We repurchase or rerecognize loans due to representation and warranty obligations or conditional repurchase options.
Typically, we will be unable to resell these assets through regular channels due to characteristics of the assets. Since the fair value of these assets is influenced by factors that cannot be hedged, we did not elect the fair value option.
     We carry the fair value-elected conforming and government-insured loans as loans held-for-sale, net, on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet. Our policy is to separately record interest income on the fair value-elected loans (unless they are placed on nonaccrual status); however, the accrued interest was excluded from the fair value presentation. Upfront fees
and costs related to the fair value-elected loans were not deferred or capitalized. The fair value adjustment recorded for these loans is classified as gain (loss) on mortgage loans, net, in the Consolidated Statement of Income. In accordance with
GAAP, the fair value option election is irrevocable once the asset is funded even if it is subsequently determined that a particular loan cannot be sold.   
         97   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following tables summarize the fair value option elections and information regarding
the amounts recorded as earnings for each fair value option-elected item.       

(a)  
  Factors other than credit quality that impact fair value include changes in market interest rates and the illiquidity or marketability in the current marketplace. Lower
levels of observable data points in illiquid markets generally result in wide bid/offer spreads.     

(b)  
  Interest income is measured by multiplying the unpaid principal balance on the loans by the coupon rate and the number of days of interest due.

(c)  
  The credit impact for loans held-for-sale is assumed to be zero because the loans are either suitable for sale or are covered by a government guarantee.

(d)  
  The credit impact for consumer mortgage finance receivables and loans was quantified by applying internal credit loss assumptions to cash flow models.

(e)  
  Interest expense is measured by multiplying bond principal by the coupon rate and the number of days of interest due to the investor.     

(f)  
  The credit impact for on-balance sheet securitization debt is assumed to be zero until our economic interests in a particular securitization is reduced to zero at which
point the losses on the underlying collateral will be expected to be passed through to third-party bondholders. Losses allocated to third-party bondholders, including changes in the amount of losses allocated, will result in fair value changes due
to credit. We also monitor credit ratings and will make credit adjustments to the extent any bond classes are downgraded by rating agencies.     
         98   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   The following table provides the aggregate fair value and the aggregate unpaid principal
balance for the fair value option-elected loans and long-term debt instruments.       

(a)  
  Excludes accrued interest receivable.     

(b)  
  Loans 90+ days past due are also presented within the nonaccrual loan balance and the total loan balance; however, excludes government-insured loans that are still
accruing interest.     

(c)  
  The fair value of consumer mortgage finance receivables and loans is calculated on a pooled basis; therefore, we allocated the fair value of nonaccrual loans and loans
90+ days past due to individual loans based on the unpaid principal balances. For further discussion regarding the pooled basis, refer to the previous section of this note titled  Consumer mortgage finance receivables and loans, net. 
    
         99   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Fair Value of Financial Instruments    
  The following table presents the carrying and estimated fair value of assets and liabilities that are considered financial instruments.
Accordingly, items that do not meet the definition of a financial instrument are excluded from the table. When possible, we use quoted market prices to determine fair value. Where quoted market prices are not available, the fair value is internally
derived based on appropriate valuation methodologies with respect to the amount and timing of future cash flows and estimated discount rates. However, considerable judgment is required in interpreting market data to develop estimates of fair value,
so the estimates are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized or would be paid in a current market exchange. The effect of using different market assumptions or estimation methodologies could be material to the estimated fair
values. Fair value information presented herein was based on information available at December 31, 2010 and 2009.       

(a)  
  Represents collateral in the form of investment securities. Cash collateral was excluded above.     

(b)  
  The carrying value and fair value amounts exclude dealer deposits.     
    The following describes the methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair value for the respective
classes of financial instruments. In addition to the valuation methods discussed below, we also followed guidelines for determining whether a market was not active and a transaction was not distressed. As such, we assumed the price that would be
received in an orderly transaction (including a market-based return) and not in forced liquidation or distressed sale.       

Trading securities     Refer to the previous section of this note titled  Trading securities  for a description of the
methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair value.          

Investment securities     Bonds, equity securities, and other available-for-sale investment securities are carried at fair value.
Refer to the previous section of this note titled  Available-for-sale securities  for a description of the methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair value. The fair value of the held-to-maturity investment securities is based on
valuation models using market-based assumption.          

Loans held-for-sale, net     Refer to the previous sections of this note also titled  Loans held-for-sale, net , for a
description of methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair value.          

Finance receivables and loans, net     With the exception of mortgage loans held-for-investment, the fair value of finance
receivables was based on discounted future cash flows using applicable spreads to approximate current rates applicable to each category of finance receivables (an income approach). The carrying value of wholesale receivables in certain markets and
certain other automobile- and mortgage-lending receivables for which interest rates reset on a short-term basis with applicable market indices are assumed to approximate fair value either because of the short-term nature or because of the interest
rate adjustment feature. The fair value of wholesale receivables in other markets was based on discounted future cash flows using applicable spreads to approximate current rates applicable to similar assets in those markets.
     
         100

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   For mortgage loans held-for-investment used as collateral for
securitization debt, we used a portfolio approach or an in-use premise to measure these loans at fair value. The objective in fair valuing these loans (which are legally isolated and beyond the reach of our creditors) and the related collateralized
borrowings is to reflect our retained economic position in the securitizations. For mortgage loans held-for-investment that are not securitized, we used valuation methods and assumptions similar to those used for mortgage loans held-for-sale. These
valuations consider unique attributes of the loans such as geography, delinquency status, product type, and other factors. Refer to the previous section in this note titled  Loans held-for-sale, net , for a description of methodologies and
assumptions used to determine the fair value of mortgage loans held-for-sale.       

Derivative instruments     Refer to the previous section of this note titled  Derivative instruments  for a description of
the methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair value.          

Collateral placed with counterparties     Collateral placed with counterparties in the table above represents only collateral in
the form of investment securities. Refer to the previous section of this note also titled  Collateral placed with counterparties  for additional information.      

Interests retained in financial asset sales     Refer to the previous sections of this note titled  Interests retained in
financial asset sales  for a description of the methodologies and assumptions used to determine fair value.          

Debt     The fair value of debt was determined using quoted market prices for the same or similar issues, if available, or was
based on the current rates offered to us for debt with similar remaining maturities.          

Deposit liabilities     Deposit liabilities represent certain consumer bank deposits as well as mortgage escrow deposits. The
fair value of deposits with no stated maturity is equal to their carrying amount. The fair value of fixed-maturity deposits was estimated by discounting cash flows using currently offered rates for deposits of similar maturities.

28.   
   Segment and Geographic Information         Operating segments are defined as components of an enterprise that engage in business activity from which revenues are earned and expenses incurred for which discrete financial information is available
that is evaluated regularly by our chief operating decision maker in deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance.   
   Basis of Presentation    
  We report our results of operations on a line-of-business basis through five operating segments   North American Automotive Finance
operations, International Automotive Finance operations, Insurance operations, Mortgage   Origination and Servicing operations, and Mortgage   Legacy Portfolio and Other operations, with the remaining activity reported in Corporate and
Other. The operating segments are determined based on the products and services offered and geographic considerations, and reflect the manner in which financial information is currently evaluated by management. The following is a description of each
of our reportable operating segments.       

North American Automotive Finance operations   Provides automotive financing services to consumers and automotive dealers in the United
States and Canada and includes the automotive activities of Ally Bank and ResMor Trust. For consumers, we offer retail automotive financing and leasing for new and used vehicles, and through our commercial automotive financing operations, we fund
dealer purchases of new and used vehicles through wholesale or floorplan financing.          

International Automotive Finance operations   Provides automotive financing and full-service leasing to consumers and dealers outside of the
United States and Canada. Our International Automotive Finance operations will focus the majority of new originations in five core international markets: Germany, the United Kingdom, Brazil, Mexico, and China through our joint venture.

Insurance operations   Offers consumer and commercial insurance products sold primarily through the dealer channel including vehicle extended
service contracts, commercial insurance coverage in the United States and internationally (primarily covering dealers  wholesale vehicle inventory), and personal automobile insurance in certain countries outside the United States.
     
         101

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

Mortgage   Origination and Servicing operations  The principal activities include originating, purchasing, selling, and
securitizing conforming and government-insured residential mortgage loans in the United States and Canada; servicing residential mortgage loans for ourselves and others; and providing collateralized lines of credit to other mortgage originators,
which we refer to as warehouse lending. We also originate high-quality prime jumbo mortgage loans in the United States. We finance our mortgage loan originations primarily in Ally Bank in the United States and in our trust company, ResMor Trust, in
Canada.          

Mortgage   Legacy Portfolio and Other operations   Primarily consists of loans originated prior to January 1, 2009, and
includes noncore business activities including discontinued operations, portfolios in runoff, and cash held in the ResCap legal entity. These activities, all of which we have discontinued, include, among other things: lending to real estate
developers and homebuilders in the United States and United Kingdom; purchasing, selling, and securitizing nonconforming residential mortgage loans (with the exception of U.S. prime jumbo mortgage loans) in both the United States and
internationally; certain conforming origination channels closed in 2008; and our mortgage reinsurance business.         Corporate and Other consists of our Commercial Finance Group, certain equity investments, other corporate activities, the residual impacts of our corporate funds-transfer-pricing (FTP) and treasury
asset liability management activities (ALM), and reclassifications and eliminations between the reportable operating segments.      We utilize an FTP methodology for the majority of our business operations. The FTP methodology assigns charge rates and credit rates to classes of assets and liabilities based on expected duration
and the LIBOR swap curve plus an assumed credit spread. Matching duration allocates interest income and interest expense to these reportable segments so their respective results are insulated from interest rate risk. This methodology is consistent
with our ALM practices, which includes managing interest rate risk centrally at a corporate level. The net residual impact of the FTP methodology is included within the results of Corporate and Other as summarized below.   
  The information presented in our reportable operating segments and geographic areas tables that follow are based in part on internal
allocations, which involve management judgment.       Change in Reportable Segment Information    
  As a result of a change in management s view of our operations, we have changed the presentation and profit measures of our
reportable operating segments as of December 31, 2010. These changes include the following.       

We presented our Origination and Servicing operations and Legacy Portfolio and Other operations reportable operating segments under the new collective
business description, Mortgage. Previously our Origination and Servicing operations and Legacy Portfolio and Other operations were combined in one reportable operating segment, Mortgage operations. The new presentation is consistent with the
organizational alignment of the business and management s current view of the mortgage business.          

Beginning in the fourth quarter of 2010, we began presenting operating results for all of our reportable operating segments on solely a pretax basis.
This presentation is consistent with the measure of operating segment results regularly reviewed by our chief operating decision maker.          

During the fourth quarter of 2010, we made modifications to the FTP allocations applicable to our North American Automotive Finance operations
commercial loan portfolio.         Amounts for 2009 and 2008 have been reclassified to conform to the current
management view.   
         102

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   Financial information for our reportable operating segments is summarized as follows.

(a)  
  Represents the ResCap legal entity and the mortgage activities of Ally Bank and ResMor Trust.     

(b)  
  Amounts include intrasegment eliminations between our North American Automotive Finance operations, International Automotive Finance operations, and Insurance
operations.     

103

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   Information concerning principal geographic areas was as follows.   

(a)  
  Revenue consists of net financing revenue and total other revenue as presented in our Consolidated Statement of Income.     

(c)  
  Identifiable assets consist of total assets excluding goodwill.     

(d)  
  Long-lived assets consist of investment in operating leases, net, and net property and equipment.     

(e)  
  Amounts include eliminations between our domestic and foreign operations.     

29.   
   Parent and Guarantor Consolidating Financial Statements         Certain of our senior notes are guaranteed by a group of subsidiaries (the Guarantors). The Guarantors, each of which is a 100% directly owned subsidiary of Ally Financial Inc., are Ally US LLC,
IB Finance Holding Company, LLC, GMAC Latin America Holdings LLC, GMAC International Holdings B.V., and GMAC Continental LLC. The Guarantors fully and unconditionally guarantee the senior notes on a joint and several
basis.      The following financial statements present condensed consolidating financial data for (i) Ally Financial Inc. (on
a parent company-only basis), (ii) the combined Guarantors, (iii) the combined nonguarantor subsidiaries (all other subsidiaries), (iv) an elimination column for adjustments to arrive at the information for the parent company,
Guarantors, and nonguarantors on a consolidated basis, and (v) the parent company and our subsidiaries on a consolidated basis.      Investments in subsidiaries are accounted for by the parent company and the Guarantors using the equity method for this presentation. Results of operations of subsidiaries are therefore classified in the
parent company s and Guarantors  investment in subsidiaries accounts. The elimination entries set forth in the following condensed consolidating financial statements eliminate distributed and undistributed income of subsidiaries,
investments in subsidiaries, and intercompany balances and transactions between the parent, Guarantors, and nonguarantors.   
         104

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Condensed Consolidating Statement of Income    

105

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

106

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

107

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Condensed Consolidating Balance Sheet    

108

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

109

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Condensed Consolidating Statement of Cash Flows    

110

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

111

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

112

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

30.   
   Guarantees, Commitments, Contingencies, and Other Risks          Guarantees       Guarantees are defined as contracts or indemnification
agreements that contingently require us to make payments to third parties based on changes in the underlying agreements with the guaranteed parties. The following summarizes our outstanding guarantees made to third parties on our Consolidated
Balance Sheet, for the periods shown.       
     Default Automotive Repurchases       Our International Automotive Finance operations provide certain investors in our on- and off-balance sheet arrangements (securitizations) and whole-loan transactions with repurchase commitments for loans
that become contractually delinquent within a specified time from their date of origination or purchase. The maximum obligation represents the principal balance for loans sold that are covered by these stipulations. Refer to Note 11 for further
information regarding our securitization trusts.       Guarantees for Repayment of Third-party Debt    
  Under certain arrangements, our International Automotive Finance operations guarantee the repayment of third-party debt obligations in the
case of default. These guarantees are collateralized by retail loans or finance leases.       Standby Letters of Credit    
  Our Commercial Finance Group issues standby letters of credit to customers that represent irrevocable guarantees of payment of specified
financial obligations. Third-party beneficiaries primarily utilize standby letters of credit as insurance in the event of nonperformance by our customers. Assets of the customers (i.e., trade receivables, inventory, and cash deposits) generally
collateralize letters of credit. Expiration dates on letters of credit range from certain ongoing commitments that will expire during the upcoming year to terms of several years for certain letters of credit.   
  If nonperformance by a customer occurs for letters of credit, we can be liable for payment of the letter of credit to the beneficiary
with our likely recourse being a charge back to the customer or liquidation of the collateral. The majority of customers with whom we have letter of credit exposure fall into the  acceptable  risk-rating category of our Commercial Finance
Group s internal risk-rating system. This category is essentially at the midpoint of our risk rating classifications.   
         113

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Commitments        Financing Commitments       The contractual commitments were as follows.

(a)  
  Amounts primarily include commitments accounted for as derivatives.     

(b)  
  We entered into agreements with third-party banks to sell automotive retail receivables in which we transferred all credit risk to the purchaser (whole-loan sales). We
completed the final transactions under these deals in October 2010.     

(c)  
  We are committed to contribute capital to certain private equity funds. The fair value of these commitments is considered in the overall valuation of the underlying
assets with which they are associated.     

(d)  
  The fair value of these commitments is considered in the overall valuation of the related assets.     

(e)  
  We are committed to fund the remaining unused balances on home equity lines of credit for certain home equity loans sold into securitization structures (both on- and
off-balance sheet structures) if certain deal-specific triggers are met. At December 31, 2010, the commitments to fund home equity lines of credit in off-balance sheet securitizations represented $1.0 billion of the total unfunded
commitments of $2.7 billion.     

(f)  
  The unused portion of revolving lines of credit reset at prevailing market rates and, as such, approximate market value.     
  The mortgage-lending and revolving credit line commitments contain an element of credit risk. Management reduces its credit risk for
unused mortgage-lending and unused revolving credit line commitments by applying the same credit policies in making commitments as it does for extending loans. We typically require collateral as these commitments are drawn.   
   Lease Commitments    
  Future minimum rental payments required under operating leases, primarily for real property, with noncancelable lease terms expiring after
December 31, 2010, are as follows.       
    Certain of the leases contain escalation clauses and renewal or purchase options. Rental expenses under
operating leases were $97 million, $104 million, and $189 million in 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively.   
         114

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Contractual Commitments       We have entered into multiple agreements for information technology, marketing and advertising, and voice and communication technology and maintenance. Many of the agreements are subject to variable price
provisions, fixed or minimum price provisions, and termination or renewal provisions.       
     Contingencies        Legal Contingencies       We are subject to potential liability under laws and
government regulations and various claims and legal actions that are pending or may be asserted against us.      We are named as
defendants in a number of legal actions and are, from time to time, involved in governmental proceedings arising in connection with our various businesses. Some of the pending actions purport to be class actions. We establish reserves for legal
claims when payments associated with the claims become probable and the costs can be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving legal claims may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts reserved for those claims. Based on
information currently available, advice of counsel, available insurance coverage, and established reserves, it is the opinion of management that the eventual outcome of the actions against us will not have a material adverse effect on our
consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.        Temporary Suspension of Mortgage Foreclosure Sales and
Evictions        Representatives of federal and state governments, including the United States Department of Justice, the
FRB, the FDIC, the SEC and law enforcement authorities in all 50 states, have announced investigations into the procedures followed by mortgage servicing companies and banks, including subsidiaries of Ally, in connection with mortgage
foreclosure home sales and evictions. We are cooperating with these investigations. The result of these investigations is uncertain but we expect that Ally or its subsidiaries will become subject to penalties, sanctions, or other adverse actions
that could have a material adverse impact on us.      On September 17, 2010, GMAC Mortgage, LLC (GMACM), an
indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Ally Financial Inc., temporarily suspended mortgage foreclosure home sales and evictions and postponed hearings on motions for judgment in certain states. This decision was made after an operational matter
was detected in the execution of certain affidavits used in connection with judicial foreclosures in some but not all states. The issue relates to whether persons signing the affidavits had appropriately verified the information in them and whether
they were signed in the immediate physical presence of a notary. In response to this and to enhance existing processes, GMACM implemented supplemental procedures that are used in all new foreclosure cases to seek to ensure that affidavits are
properly verified and executed. GMACM is also conducting an additional review of all foreclosure files in all states prior to going to foreclosure sale.      Our review related to this matter is ongoing, and we cannot predict the ultimate impact of any deficiencies that have been or may be identified in our historical foreclosure processes. However, thus far
we have not found any evidence of unwarranted foreclosures. There are potential risks related to these matters that extend beyond potential liability on individual foreclosure actions. Specific risks could include, for example, claims and litigation
related to foreclosure file remediation and resubmission; claims from investors that hold securities that become adversely impacted by continued delays in the foreclosure process; actions by courts, state attorneys general, or regulators to delay
further the foreclosure process after submission of corrected affidavits; regulatory fines and sanctions; and reputational risks. At December 31, 2010, we recorded a liability of approximately $13 million related to potential fines and penalties we
determined were probable and estimable.   
         115

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

We did not record any additional liability related to unasserted claims or loss contingencies at December 31, 2010, because we do not believe such liabilities are probable and estimable based on
information currently available nor are we able to estimate a range of losses.        Mortgage-backed Securities Litigation
       There are nine cases relating to various private-label MBS offerings that are currently pending. Plaintiffs in these
cases include Cambridge Place Investment Management Inc. (two cases pending in Suffolk County Superior Court, Massachusetts); The Charles Schwab Corporation (case pending in San Francisco County Superior Court, California); Federal Home Loan
Bank of Chicago (case pending in Cook County Circuit Court, Illinois); Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis (case filed in Marion County Superior Court, Indiana); Massachusetts Mutual Life Ins. Co. (case pending in federal court in the District of
Massachusetts); Allstate Insurance Co. (served in Hennepin County, Minnesota, District Court); New Jersey Carpenters Health Fund, et al. (a putative class action in which certification has been denied, pending in federal court in the
Southern District of New York); and the West Virginia Investment Management Board (case pending in the Kanawha County Circuit Court, West Virginia). Each of the above cases includes as defendants certain of our mortgage subsidiaries, and the New
Jersey Carpenters and Massachusetts Mutual cases also include as defendants certain current and former employees. The plaintiffs in all cases have alleged that the various defendant subsidiaries made misstatements and omissions in registration
statements, prospectuses, prospectus supplements, and other documents related to MBS offerings. The alleged misstatements and omissions typically concern underwriting standards. Plaintiffs claim that such misstatements and omissions constitute
violations of state and/or federal securities law and common law including negligent misrepresentation and fraud. Plaintiffs seek monetary damages and rescission. The range of any potential losses related to these matters is not currently
determinable.      There are two additional cases pending in the New York County Supreme Court where MBIA Insurance
Corp. (MBIA) has alleged that two of our mortgage subsidiaries breached their contractual representations and warranties relating to the characteristics of the mortgage loans contained in certain insured MBS offerings. MBIA further alleges
that the defendant subsidiaries failed to follow certain remedy procedures set forth in the contracts and improperly serviced the mortgage loans. Along with claims for breach of contract, MBIA also alleges fraud. The range of any potential losses
related to these matters is not currently determinable.        Private-label Matters     
  Claims related to private-label mortgage-backed securities (PLS) have been brought under federal and state securities laws (among
other theories), and it is possible that additional similar claims will be brought in the future. The claims made to date are similar in some respects to the repurchase demands we have previously disclosed related to alleged breaches of
representations and warranties our mortgage subsidiaries made in connection with mortgage loans they sold or securitized. Further and as previously disclosed, the Federal Housing Finance Agency (FHFA), as conservator of Fannie Mae and Freddie
Mac, announced on July 12, 2010, that it issued 64 subpoenas to various entities seeking documents related to PLS in which Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had invested. Certain of our mortgage subsidiaries received such subpoenas. In
connection with our settlement with Fannie Mae announced on December 23, 2010, the FHFA has agreed to withdraw the subpoenas that relate to Fannie Mae. However, we continue to respond to the subpoenas related to Freddie Mac. The FHFA has
indicated that documents provided in response to the subpoenas will enable the FHFA to determine whether they believe issuers of PLS are potentially liable to Freddie Mac for losses they might have suffered. While a final outcome in any existing or
future legal proceeding related to the foregoing, if unfavorable, could result in additional liability, the range of any potential losses related to the above described matters is not currently determinable.   
   Other Contingencies       We
are subject to potential liability under various other exposures including tax, nonrecourse loans, self-insurance, and other miscellaneous contingencies. We establish reserves for these contingencies when the item becomes probable and the costs can
be reasonably estimated. The actual costs of resolving these items may be substantially higher or lower than the amounts reserved for any one item. Based on information currently available, it is the opinion of management that the eventual outcome
of these items will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows.   
         116

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
    Other Risks        Loan Repurchases and Obligations Related to Loan Sales         Overview     
  Our Mortgage operations sell loans that take the form of securitizations guaranteed by the GSEs and to whole-loan investors. We have
issued private-label mortgage-backed securities infrequently since 2007. In prior years, our volume of private-label securitization issuances were considerably larger, and they included securitized loans where monolines have insured the related
bonds. We have settled with both Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, limiting our remaining exposure with the GSEs. In connection with securitizations and loan sales, investors are provided various representations and warranties related to the loans sold.
The specific representations and warranties vary among different transactions and investors but typically relate to, among other things, the ownership of the loan, the validity of the lien securing the loan, the loan s compliance with the
criteria for inclusion in the transaction, including compliance with underwriting standards or loan criteria established by the buyer, the ability to deliver required documentation and compliance with applicable laws. In general, the representations
and warranties described above may be enforced at any time unless a sunset provision is in place. ResCap assumes all of the customary representation and warranty obligations for loans purchased from Ally Bank and subsequently sold into the secondary
market, generally through securitizations guaranteed by the GSEs. In the event ResCap fails to meet these obligations, Ally Financial Inc. has provided Ally Bank a guaranteed coverage of liability. Upon a breach of a representation, the breach
is corrected in a manner conforming to the provisions of the sale agreement. This may require us either to repurchase the loan or indemnify the investor for incurred losses.        Originations        We believe our exposure to representation and warranty
claims is most significant for loans sold between 2004 through 2008, specifically the 2006 and 2007 vintages which were originated and sold prior to enhanced underwriting standards and risk-mitigation actions implemented in 2008 and forward,
including product offerings which are more conservative. Since 2009, we have focused primarily on prime conforming and government-insured mortgages in the United States and high-quality government-insured residential mortgages in Canada. In
addition, we ceased offering interest-only jumbo mortgages in 2010. Our representation and warranty risk-mitigation strategies include, but are not limited to, pursuing settlements with investors where economically beneficial in order to resolve a
pipeline of demands in lieu of loan by loan assessments that could result in us repurchasing loans, aggressively contesting claims we do not consider valid (rescinding claims), or actively seeking recourse against correspondent lenders from whom we
purchased loans.        Repurchase Process        As soon as practical, after receiving a claim under representation and warranty obligations, we evaluate the request and take appropriate action. Historically, repurchase demands were related to loans
that became delinquent within the first few years following origination and varied by investor. As a result of market developments over the past several years repurchase demand behavior has changed significantly. Direct investors, GSEs, and
whole-loan investors are more likely to submit claims for loans that become delinquent at any time while a loan is outstanding or when a loan incurs a loss. Actual incurred losses more significantly drive monoline investor behavior, which can
significantly extend the period over which claims are likely to be presented. This occurs because insurance claims paid by the monolines are not required until overcollateralization is depleted and the monolines are not incented to request loan
repurchases until they have paid the insurance claims. Representation and warranty claims are generally reviewed on a loan by loan basis to validate if there has been a breach requiring a potential repurchase or indemnification payment. We actively
contest claims to the extent we do not consider them valid. We are not required to either repurchase the loan or provide an indemnification payment where claims are not valid.      We seek to manage the risk of repurchase and the associated credit exposure through our underwriting and quality assurance practices and by servicing mortgage loans to meet investor standards. We believe
that, in general, the longer a loan performs prior to default the less likely it is that an alleged breach of representation and warranty will have a material impact on the loan s performance. When we do repurchase loans, we bear the subsequent
credit loss on the loans. Repurchased loans are classified as held-for-sale and initially recorded at fair value. While investors  repurchase and demand behavior has changed given the recent market conditions, we continue to maintain
constructive relationships with the GSEs and other investors.   
         117

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
     Representation and Warranty Obligation Reserve Methodology     
  The reserve for representation and warranty obligations reflects management s best estimate of probable lifetime loss. We consider
historical and recent demand trends in establishing the reserve. The methodology used to estimate the reserve considers a variety of assumptions including borrower performance (both actual and estimated future defaults), repurchase demand behavior,
historical loan defect experience, and historical and estimated future loss experience, which includes projections of future home price changes as well as other qualitative factors including investor behavior. In cases where we do not have or have
limited current or historical demand experience with an investor, it is difficult to predict and estimate the level and timing of any potential future demands. As such, losses cannot currently be reasonably estimated and a liability is not
recognized. Management monitors the adequacy of the overall reserve and makes adjustments to the level of reserve, as necessary, after consideration of other qualitative factors including ongoing dialogue with counterparties.   
  At the time a loan is sold, an estimate of the fair value of the liability is recorded and classified in accrued expenses and other
liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheet and recorded as a component of gain (loss) on mortgage and automotive loans, net, in our Consolidated Statement of Income. We recognize changes in the reserve when additional relevant information becomes
available. Changes in the liability are recorded as other operating expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Income. The repurchase reserve at December 31, 2010, primarily represents exposure not related to the GSEs.   
  The following tables summarize the changes in our reserve for representation and warranty obligations.   

(a)  
  Includes principal losses and accrued interest on repurchased loans, indemnification payments, and settlements with counterparty.     
    Government-sponsored Enterprises        Between 2004 and 2008, we sold $250.8 billion of loans. Each GSE has specific guidelines and criteria for sellers and servicers of loans underlying their securities. In addition, the risk of credit
loss of the loan sold was generally transferred to investors upon sale of the securities into the secondary market. Conventional conforming loans were sold to either Freddie Mac or Fannie Mae, and government-insured loans were securitized with
Ginnie Mae. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we received $842 million in repurchase claims of which $784 million are associated with the 2004 through 2008 vintages of loans sold to the GSEs. We resolved $968 million
claims including $756 million in either settlement, repurchase, or indemnification payments and $212 million related to rescinded claims. Our representation and warranty obligation liability with respect to the GSEs considers the existing
unresolved claims and our best estimate of future claims we might receive. We consider our experiences with the each GSE in evaluating our liability. During 2010, we reached agreements with Freddie Mac and Fannie Mae which resolve material
repurchase obligations with each counterparty.      In March 2010, certain of our mortgage subsidiaries entered into an
agreement with Freddie Mac under which we made a one-time payment to Freddie Mac for the release of repurchase obligations relating to most of the mortgage loans sold to Freddie Mac prior to January 1, 2009. The agreement does not cover
any violation of servicing obligations related to any failure to comply with any requirements of law applicable to foreclosing on property serving as collateral for any applicable mortgage loan. This agreement does not release any of our obligations
with respect to loans where our subsidiary, Ally Bank, is the owner of the servicing.   
         118

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   On December 23, 2010, certain of our mortgage subsidiaries entered into an
agreement with Fannie Mae under which we made a one-time payment to Fannie Mae for the release of repurchase obligations, including private-label securitization exposure, related to most of the mortgage loans we sold to Fannie Mae prior to
June 30, 2010. We continue to be responsible for other contractual obligations we have with Fannie Mae including all indemnification obligations that may arise in connection with the servicing of the mortgages. The agreement does not cover
any violation of servicing obligations related to any failure to comply with any requirements of law applicable to foreclosing on property serving as collateral for any applicable mortgage loan. This agreement does not release any of our obligations
with respect to loans where our subsidiary, Ally Bank, is the owner of the servicing.      The FHFA as conservator of Fannie Mae
and Freddie Mac, announced on July 12, 2010, that it issued 64 subpoenas to various entities seeking documents related to private-label mortgage-backed securities in which Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac had invested. Certain of these
subpoenas were directed at our mortgage subsidiaries. In connection with the agreement reached with Fannie Mae, the FHFA has agreed to withdraw those subpoenas that relate to Fannie Mae while the subpoenas that relate to Freddie Mac remain open.
       Whole-loan Sales        In addition to the settlements with the GSEs noted earlier, we have settled with several whole-loan investors concerning alleged breaches of underwriting standards. For the year ended
December 31, 2010, we have received $126 million in repurchase claims of which $120 million are associated with the 2004 through 2008 vintages of loans sold to whole-loan investors. We resolved $108 million of claims,
including $44 million in either settlements, repurchases, or indemnification payments and $64 million related to rescinded claims.   
    Monoline Insurers     
  Historically, our Mortgage operations have securitized whole loans where the monolines have insured all or some of the related bonds and
have guaranteed the timely repayment of bond principal and interest when an issuer defaults. Overall, the representation and warranty obligations to monoline insurers are not as stringent as those to the GSEs and impose a higher burden of proof on
the insurer. Typically, any alleged breach requires the insurer to have both the ability to assert a claim as well as evidence that a defect has had a material adverse effect on the interest of the security holders or the insurer. For the period
2004 through 2008, we sold $42.7 billion of loans into these monoline-wrapped securitizations. For the year ended December 31, 2010, we received $151 million in repurchase claims from the monolines associated with the 2004
through 2008 securitizations. We resolved $43 million of the claims including $36 million of indemnification payments and $7 million related to rescinded claims.   
  Unlike the repurchase protocols and experience established with the GSEs, experience with monolines has not been as predictable. A
significant portion of the outstanding unresolved monoline repurchase claims are with one insurer with whom we are currently in litigation.   
    Private-label Securitization        Historically, our Mortgage operations were very active in the securitization market selling whole loans into special-purpose entities and selling these private-label mortgage backed securities to
investors. We have issued private-label mortgage-backed securities infrequently since 2007.      In general, representations and
warranties provided as part of our securitization activities are less rigorous than those provided to the GSEs and generally impose higher burdens on investors seeking repurchase. In order to successfully assert a claim, an investor must prove
breach of the representations and warranties that materially and adversely affects the interest of all investors. Securitization documents typically provide the investors with a right to request that the trustee investigate and initiate a repurchase
claim. However, a class of investors generally are required to coordinate with other investors in that class comprising not less than 25% of the percentage interest constituting a class of securities for that class issued by the trust to pursue
claims for breach of representations and warranties. In addition, our private-label securitizations generally require that the servicer or trustee give notice to the other parties whenever it becomes aware of facts or circumstances that reveal a
breach of representation that materially and adversely affects the interest of the certificate holders. If, for example, we as servicer became aware of such facts and circumstances, we would typically be required to initiate a repurchase
at that time. The GSEs were among the purchasers of securities in our private-label securitizations.   
         119

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   
     
   Regarding our securitization activities, we have exposure to potential loss primarily
through two avenues. First, investors may request that we repurchase loans or make the investor whole for losses incurred if it is determined that we violated representations and warranties made at the time of the sale. Contractual representations
and warranties are different based on the specific deal structure and investor. Second, investors in securitizations may attempt to achieve rescission of their investments, or damages through litigation by claiming that the applicable offering
documents were materially deficient. If an investor properly made and proved its allegations, the investor might attempt to claim that damages could include loss of market value on the investment even if there were little or no credit loss in the
underlying loans. We have a limited amount of repurchase experience with these investors, and therefore it is currently not possible to estimate future repurchase obligations and any related loss or range of loss.   

31.   
   Quarterly Financial Statements (unaudited)          
 
         120

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements      Ally Financial Inc.       Form 10-K   

Declaration of
Quarterly Dividend Payments       On January 4, 2011, the Ally Board of Directors declared quarterly dividend payments
on certain outstanding preferred stock. This included a cash dividend of $1.125 per share, or a total of $134 million, on Fixed Rate Cumulative Mandatorily Convertible Preferred Stock, Series F-2 and a cash dividend of $17.50 per
share, or a total of $45 million, on Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G. The dividends were paid on February 15, 2011.       February 2011 Notes Offering and Debt Repurchase       On
February 11, 2011, we completed a securities offering of $2.25 billion in aggregate principal amount of Ally senior guaranteed notes due February 2014. The offering included $1.0 billion of fixed rate notes at par to
yield 4.5% and $1.25 billion of floating rate notes with the same maturity date to yield a spread of 320 basis points over the three-month London interbank offer rate.   
  In addition, in February, we repurchased certain debt that will result in a $42 million loss for the first quarter 2011. The loss
primarily represented accelerated original issue discount amortization of $31 million that was scheduled to amortize in 2011.   
         121

</EX-99.1>

<EX-99.2>
 15
 dex992.htm
 EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGES AND COMPENSATION CERTIFICATE

Executive Privileges and Compensation Certificate 

Exhibit 99.2       EXECUTIVE PRIVILEGES AND COMPENSATION CERTIFICATE      February 24, 2011
     This certificate is delivered pursuant to Section 111 of the Emergency Economic Stabilization ACT of 2008
( EESA ), as amended by the American Recovery and Reinvestment Act of 2009 ( ARRA ).      The undersigned
hereby certify, to the best of their knowledge in their capacities as Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer of General Motors Holdings LLC, and not in their individual capacities, as follows:   
  (i) The compensation committee of General Motors Company has discussed, reviewed, and evaluated with the senior risk
officer at least every six months during the period beginning on January 1, 2010 and ending with December 31, 2010, senior executive officer (SEO) compensation plans and employee compensation plans and the risks these plans pose to General
Motors Holdings LLC;      (ii) The compensation committee of General Motors Company has identified and limited
during the period beginning on January 1, 2010 and ending with December 31, 2010 the features in the SEO compensation plans that could lead SEOs to take unnecessary and excessive risks that could threaten the value of General Motors
Holdings LLC and identified any features in the employee compensation plans that pose risks to General Motors Holdings LLC and limited those features to ensure that General Motors Holdings LLC is not unnecessarily exposed to risks;   
  (iii) The compensation committee has reviewed at least every six months during the period beginning on January 1,
2010 and ending with December 31, 2010 the terms of each employee compensation plan and identified the features in the plan that could encourage the manipulation of reported earnings of General Motors Holdings LLC to enhance the compensation of
an employee and has limited these features that would encourage the manipulation of reported earnings of General Motors Holdings LLC;      (iv) The compensation committee of General Motors Company will certify to the reviews of the SEO compensation plans and employee compensation plans required under (i) and (iii) above;
     (v) The compensation committee of General Motors Company will provide a narrative description of how it
limited during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period the features in      (A) SEO compensation
plans that could lead SEOs to take unnecessary and excessive risks that could threaten the value of General Motors Holdings LLC;   
  (B) Employee compensation plans that unnecessarily expose General Motors Holdings LLC to risks; and   
         1 of 4

(C) Employee compensation plans that could encourage the manipulation of reported earnings
of General Motors Holdings LLC to enhance the compensation of an employee;      (vi) General Motors Holdings LLC
has required that bonus payments to SEOs or any of the next twenty most highly compensated employees, as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA (bonus payments), be subject to a recovery or
  clawback   provision during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period if the bonus payments were based on materially inaccurate financial statements or any other materially inaccurate
performance metric criteria;      (vii) General Motors Holdings LLC has prohibited any golden parachute payment,
as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, to a SEO or any of the next five most highly compensated employees during the period beginning on January 1, 2010 and ending with December 31, 2010;
     (viii) General Motors Holdings LLC has limited bonus payments to its applicable employees in accordance with
section 111 of EESA and the regulations and guidance established thereunder during the period beginning on January 1, 2010 and ending with December 31, 2010 and has received or is in the process of receiving approvals from the Office of
the Special Master for TARP Executive Compensation for compensation payments and structures as required under the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, and has not made any payments inconsistent with those approved payments
and structures;      (ix) General Motors Holdings LLC and its employees have complied with the excessive or luxury
expenditures policy, as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, during the period beginning on January 1, 2010 and ending with December 31, 2010, and that any expenses requiring approval of the board
of directors, a committee of the board of directors, an SEO, or an executive officer with a similar level of responsibility, were properly approved;      (x) General Motors Company will permit a non-binding shareholder resolution in compliance with any applicable Federal securities rules and regulations on the disclosures provided under the Federal
securities laws related to SEO compensation paid or accrued during any part of the most recently completed fiscal year that was a TARP period;      (xi) General Motors Holdings LLC will disclose the amount, nature, and justification for the offering during the period beginning on January 1, 2010 and ending with December 31, 2010 of any
perquisites, as defined in the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, whose total value exceeds $25,000 for each employee subject to the bonus payment limitations identified in paragraph (viii);   
         2 of 4

(xii) General Motors Holdings LLC, either directly or through the Executive
Privileges and Compensation Compliance Certificate provided by the Executive Compensation Committee, will disclose whether General Motors Holdings LLC, the board of directors of General Motors Company, or the compensation committee of General Motors
Company has engaged during the period beginning on January 1, 2010 and ending with December 31, 2010 a compensation consultant; and the services the compensation consultant or any affiliate of the compensation consultant provided during
this period;      (xiii) General Motors Holdings LLC has prohibited the payment of any gross-ups, as defined in
the regulations and guidance established under section 111 of EESA, to the SEOs and the next twenty most highly compensated employees during the period beginning on January 1, 2010 and ending with December 31, 2010;   
  (xiv) General Motors Holdings LLC has substantially complied with all other requirements related to employee compensation
that are provided in the agreement between General Motors Holdings LLC and Treasury, including any amendments;   
  (xv) General Motors Holdings LLC has provided listings to the U. S. Treasury of the SEOs and the twenty next most highly
compensated employees for the current fiscal year, with the non-SEOs ranked in order of level of annual compensation starting with the greatest amount. The following employees are the SEOs of General Motors Company:   
    Senior Executive Officers (SEOs)         

Employee Name    
      
     Title     
 
  Akerson, Daniel F.  
      
  Chairman   Chief Executive Officer   
 
  Whitacre, Jr., Edward E.  
      
  Chairman   Chief Executive Officer (Retired)   
 
  Girsky, Stephen J.  
      
  Vice Chairman, Corporate Strategy, Business Development, Global Product Planning,   Global Purchasing and Supply Chain   
 
  Liddell, Christopher P.  
      
  Vice Chairman   Chief Financial Officer   
 
  Stephens, Thomas G.  
      
  Vice Chairman   Global Chief Technology Officer   
 
  Reilly, David N.  
      
  GM Vice President   President, Europe    
         3 of 4

(xvi) I understand that a knowing and willful false or fraudulent statement
made in connection with this certification may be punished by fine, imprisonment, or both.      The foregoing certification is made
and delivered in our capacities described above for and on behalf of General Motors Holdings LLC as of the date first written above.        

GENERAL MOTORS HOLDINGS LLC   

By:  
     
    /s/ DANIEL F. AKERSON    
 
    Daniel F. Akerson   
 
    Principal Executive Officer   

By:  
     
    /s/ CHRISTOPHER P. LIDDELL    
 
    Christopher P. Liddell   
 
    Principal Financial Officer    

         4 of 4

</EX-99.2>

