<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090211_10-K_edgar_data_87347_0001193125-09-024868_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2041408</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>447730</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>80754</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1163264</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>92</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-024868.hdr.sgml : 20090211
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090211103108
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-024868
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		17
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090211
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090211

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SCHLUMBERGER LTD /NV/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000087347
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	OIL, GAS FIELD SERVICES, NBC [1389]
		IRS NUMBER:				520684746
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			P8
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-04601
		FILM NUMBER:		09587993

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5599 SAN FELIPE
		STREET 2:		17TH FLOOR
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77056
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7135132000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5599 SAN FELIPE
		STREET 2:		17TH FLOOR
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77056

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SCHLUMBERGER NV
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920804

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SCHLUMBERGER LTD
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19880812

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 PaYJ2iw0JgT7z7R8AD3peSp/nT+vMryt+8Es/OqG8TA/L72RGZBf2r3jKI7SHrvc
 qLF7BNrDZV1EpG0Tg2b/Ag==

 0001193125-09-024868.txt : 20090211

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

    UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
     Washington, D.C. 20549             Form 10-K              (Mark One)          
           For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008              OR          
           For the transition period from
               to                              Commission File Number 1-4601              Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger Limited)        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)          
          Registrant s
telephone number in the United States, including area code, is:       (713) 513-2000             Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:   

Title of each class     
        
     Name of each exchange on which registered      
 
  Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share  
        
    New York Stock Exchange     Euronext Paris     The London Stock Exchange     SIX Swiss Exchange Ltd.    
          Securities registered
pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:       None             Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined
in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES      NO                  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act. YES        NO                Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past
90 days.  YES      NO                  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not
contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.                  Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting
company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.            Large accelerated filer       Accelerated filer         Non-accelerated filer         Smaller reporting company                  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  YES        NO    
           As of June 30, 2008, the aggregate market value of the common stock of
the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $125.2 billion.            As of January 31, 2009, the number of shares of common stock outstanding was 1,195,989,819.             DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE             Portions of the following document have been incorporated herein by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K to the extent described therein: Definitive Proxy Statement
relating to Schlumberger s 2009 Annual General Meeting of Stockholders ( Proxy Statement ).          

Table of Contents  

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED            Table of Contents             Form 10-K          

Page      
 
      PART I     

Item 1.   
      
   Business   
      
  3   
 
    Item 1A.   
      
   Risk Factors   
      
  6   
 
    Item 1B.   
      
   Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  10   
 
    Item 2.   
      
   Properties   
      
  10   
 
    Item 3.   
      
   Legal Proceedings   
      
  10   
 
    Item 4.   
      
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  10   

PART II     

Item 5.   
      
   Market for Schlumberger s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  12   
 
    Item 6.   
      
   Selected Financial Data   
      
  15   
 
    Item 7.   
      
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  17   
 
    Item 7A.   
      
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
      
  33   
 
    Item 8.   
      
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  35   
 
    Item 9.   
      
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  71   
 
    Item 9A.   
      
   Controls and Procedures   
      
  71   
 
    Item 9B.   
      
   Other Information   
      
  71   

PART III     

Item 10.   
      
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of Schlumberger   
      
  72   
 
    Item 11.   
      
   Executive Compensation   
      
  72   
 
    Item 12.   
      
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  72   
 
    Item 13.   
      
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence   
      
  73   
 
    Item 14.   
      
   Principal Accounting Fees and Services   
      
  73   

PART IV     

Item 15.   
      
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules   
      
  74   

Signatures   
      
  75   

Certifications    

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1                     PART I               Item 1.    Business.             All references in this report to  Registrant ,  Company ,
 Schlumberger ,  we  or  our  are to Schlumberger Limited and its consolidated subsidiaries.      Founded in 1926,
Schlumberger is the world s leading supplier of technology, integrated project management and information solutions to customers working in the oil and gas industry worldwide. As of December 31, 2008, the Company employed approximately
87,000 people of over 140 nationalities operating in approximately 80 countries. Schlumberger has principal executive offices in Paris, Houston, and The Hague and consists of two business segments   Schlumberger Oilfield Services and
WesternGeco. Schlumberger Oilfield Services provides the industry s widest range of products and services from exploration to production, while WesternGeco is the world s most technologically advanced surface seismic company.   
         Schlumberger Oilfield Services  is the world s leading provider of technology,
integrated project management and information solutions to the international oil and gas exploration and production industry. Schlumberger Oilfield Services manages its business through GeoMarket* regions, which are grouped into four geographic
areas: North America, Latin America, Europe/CIS/Africa and Middle East   Asia. The GeoMarket structure offers customers a single point of contact at the local level for field operations and brings together geographically focused teams to
meet local needs and deliver customized solutions.      Schlumberger invented wireline logging as a technique for obtaining downhole data in oil
and gas wells. Today, Schlumberger Oilfield Services operates in each of the major oilfield service markets, providing services that cover the entire life cycle of the reservoir. These services, in which Schlumberger holds a number of market leading
positions, are organized into a number of technology-based product and service lines, or Technologies, to capitalize on technical synergies and introduce innovative solutions within the GeoMarket regions. The Technologies are also responsible for
overseeing operational processes, resource allocation, personnel and quality, health, safety and environmental matters in the GeoMarket.            The Technologies are:         

Wireline   provides the information necessary to evaluate the subsurface formation rocks and fluids to plan and monitor well construction, and to monitor and
evaluate well production. Wireline offers both open-hole and cased-hole services.            

Drilling   Measurements   supplies directional-drilling, measurement-while-drilling and logging-while-drilling services for all well profiles.

Well Testing   provides exploration and production pressure and flow-rate measurement services both at the surface and downhole. The Technology also provides
tubing-conveyed perforating services.            

Well Services   provides services used during oil and gas well drilling and completion as well as those used to maintain optimal production throughout the life
of a well. The services include pressure pumping, well cementing and stimulation operations as well as intervention activities. The Technology also develops coiled-tubing equipment and services.            

Completions   supplies well completion services and equipment that include gas-lift and safety valves as well as a range of intelligent well completions
technology and equipment.            

Artificial Lift   provides production optimization services using electrical submersible pumps and associated equipment.            
   3   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1                

Data   Consulting Services   supplies interpretation and integration of all exploration and production data types, as well as expert consulting
services for reservoir characterization, production enhancement, field development planning and multi-disciplinary reservoir and production solutions.          

Schlumberger Information Solutions (SIS)   provides consulting, software, information management and IT infrastructure products and services that support core
oil and gas industry operational processes.               Supporting the Technologies are 20 research and engineering centers. Through this organization, Schlumberger is committed to advanced technology programs that enhance oilfield efficiency, lower finding and producing costs, improve
productivity, maximize reserve recovery and increase asset value while accomplishing these goals in a safe and environmentally sound manner.      Schlumberger Oilfield Services also offers customers its services through a business model known as Integrated Project Management (IPM). IPM combines the required products and services of the Schlumberger Technologies with drilling rig
management expertise and project management skills to provide a complete solution to well construction and production improvement. IPM projects are typically of multi-year duration and include start-up costs and significant third-party components
that cover services that Schlumberger does not provide directly. Some projects may be fixed price in nature and may contain penalties for non-performance.      Schlumberger Oilfield Services uses its own personnel to market its products and services. The customer base, business risks and opportunities for growth are essentially uniform across all services. There is a sharing
of manufacturing and engineering facilities as well as research centers, and the labor force is interchangeable. Technological innovation, quality of service, and price differentiation are the principal methods of competition, which varies
geographically with respect to the different services offered. While there are numerous competitors, both large and small, Schlumberger believes that it is an industry leader in providing wireline logging, well testing, measurement-while-drilling,
logging-while-drilling and directional-drilling services, as well as fully computerized logging and geoscience software and computing services. A large proportion of Schlumberger offerings are non-rig related; consequently, revenue does not
necessarily correlate to rig count fluctuations.      Schlumberger is a 40% owner in M-I SWACO   a joint venture with Smith International
  which offers the drilling and completion fluids used to stabilize subsurface rock strata during the drilling process and minimize formation damage during completion and workover operations.             WesternGeco,  the world s most technologically advanced seismic company, provides
comprehensive reservoir imaging, monitoring and development services with the most extensive seismic crews and data processing centers in the industry as well as a leading multiclient seismic library. Services range from 3D and time-lapse
(4D) seismic surveys to multi-component surveys for delineating prospects and reservoir management. WesternGeco benefits from full access to the Schlumberger research, development and technology organization and shares similar business risks,
opportunities for growth, principal methods of competition and means of marketing as Schlumberger Oilfield Services. Seismic solutions include proprietary Q* technology for enhanced reservoir description, characterization and monitoring throughout
the life of the field from exploration through enhanced recovery. Other WesternGeco solutions include development of controlled-source electromagnetic and magneto-telluric surveys and their integration with seismic data.      Positioned for meeting a full range of customer needs in land, marine and shallow-water transition-zone services, WesternGeco offers a wide scope of
technologies and services:         

Land Seismic   provides comprehensive resources for seismic data acquisition on land and across shallow-water transition zones.      
     
   4   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1                

Marine Seismic   provides industry-standard marine seismic acquisition and processing systems as well as a unique industry-leading, fully calibrated
single-sensor marine seismic system that delivers the seismic technology needed for new-generation reservoir management.            

Multiclient Services   supplies high-quality seismic data from the multiclient library, including industry-leading Q technology data.

Reservoir Services   provides people, tools and technology to help customers capture the benefits of a completely integrated approach to locating, defining and
monitoring the reservoir.            

Data Processing   offers extensive seismic data processing centers for complex data processing projects.            

Electromagnetics   provides controlled-source electromagnetic and magneto-telluric data acquisition and processing.                 Acquisitions              Information about acquisitions made by Schlumberger appears in Note 4 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements .             GENERAL               Research Centers              Research to support the engineering and development efforts of Schlumberger activities is principally conducted at Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States; Cambridge,
England; Stavanger, Norway; Moscow, Russia; and Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.              Patents
             While Schlumberger seeks and holds numerous patents covering various
products and processes, no particular patent or group of patents is considered material to Schlumberger s business.              Seasonality              Although weather and natural phenomena can temporarily affect delivery of oilfield services, the widespread geographic location of such services precludes the overall business from being characterized as seasonal.
             Customers and Backlog of Orders              No single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue. Oilfield Services has no
significant backlog due to the nature of its business. The WesternGeco backlog at December 31, 2008 was $1.8 billion (2007: $1.2 billion), of which an estimated $1.3 billion is expected to be realized in 2009.              Government Contracts              No material portion of Schlumberger s business is subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of contracts by the United States
or other governments.              Employees              As of December 31, 2008, Schlumberger had approximately 87,000 employees.   
     
   5   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1, 1A                    Financial Information              Financial information by business segment for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006 is provided in Note 18 of the
 Consolidated Financial Statements .              Available Information
             The Schlumberger Internet website can be found at  www.slb.com .
Schlumberger makes available free of charge on or through its Internet website at  www.slb.com/ir  access to its Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, its proxy statement and Forms 3, 4 and 5
filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and amendments to each of those reports as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Alternatively,
you may access these reports at the SEC s Internet website at  www.sec.gov .      Schlumberger s corporate governance materials,
including Board Committee Charters, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics, may also be found at  www.slb.com/ir . From time to time, corporate governance materials on our website may be updated to comply with rules issued by the
SEC and the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) or as desirable to promote the effective governance of Schlumberger. In addition, amendments to the Code of Ethics and any grant of a waiver from a provision of the Code of Ethics requiring
disclosure under applicable SEC or NYSE rules will be disclosed on our website.      Any
stockholder wishing to receive, without charge, a copy of any of the SEC filings or corporate governance materials should write to the Secretary, Schlumberger Limited, 5599 San Felipe, 17   th 
   Floor, Houston, Texas 77056, USA.      Schlumberger has filed the required certifications under
Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Report. In 2008, Schlumberger submitted to the NYSE the CEO certification required by Section 303A.12(a) of the NYSE s Listed Company Manual.   
  The information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Report and should not be considered part of this Report or
any other filing Schlumberger makes with the SEC.               Item 1A.    Risk Factors.             The following discussion of risk factors contains  forward-looking statements,  as discussed immediately following Item 7A. of this Report. These risk factors may be important to understanding any
statement in this Report or elsewhere. The following information should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Report.             We urge you to carefully consider the risks described below, as well as in other reports
and materials that we file with the SEC and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Report. If any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Report were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results
of operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose all or part of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently
known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also adversely affect our business and operations.              Demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. Current global economic conditions have resulted in a significant decline in oil and gas
prices. If current global economic conditions and the availability of credit worsen or continue for an extended period, this could reduce our customers  levels of expenditures and have a significant adverse effect on our revenue and operating
results.                
   6   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1A                   The current global credit and economic environment has reduced worldwide demand for energy
and resulted in significantly lower crude oil and natural gas prices. A substantial or extended decline in oil and natural gas prices can reduce our customers  activities and their spending on our services and products. Demand for the majority
of our services substantially depends on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of crude oil and natural gas reserves. These expenditures are sensitive to oil and natural gas prices and
generally dependent on the industry s view of future oil and gas prices. As the worldwide deterioration in the financial and credit markets has deepened in recent months, demand for oil and gas has reduced dramatically and oil and gas prices
have fallen sharply, causing some of our customers to start to reduce or delay their oil and gas exploration and production spending. This has started to reduce the demand for our services and has begun to exert downward pressure on the prices that
we charge. If economic conditions continue to deteriorate or do not improve, it could result in further reductions of exploration and production expenditures by our customers, causing further declines in the demand for our services and products.
This could result in a significant adverse effect on our operating results. Furthermore, it is difficult to predict how long the economic downturn will continue, to what extent it will worsen, and to what extent this will continue to affect us.
     The reduction in cash flows being experienced by our customers resulting from declines in commodity prices, together with the reduced
availability of credit and increased costs of borrowing due to the tightening of the credit markets, could have significant adverse effects on the financial condition of some of our customers. This could result in project modifications, delays or
cancellations, general business disruptions, and delay in, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us, which could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, our suppliers could be negatively
impacted by current global economic conditions. If certain of our suppliers were to experience significant cash flow issues or become insolvent as a result of such conditions, it could result in a reduction or interruption in supplies or a
significant increase in the price of supplies, and adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows.      The prices for oil and
natural gas are subject to a variety of additional factors, including:         

demand for energy, which is affected by worldwide population growth, economic development and general economic and business conditions;

the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries( OPEC ) to set and maintain production levels for oil;            

oil and gas production by non-OPEC countries;            

political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest;            

the level of worldwide oil exploration and production activity;          

the cost of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas;          

technological advances affecting energy consumption; and            

weather conditions.                A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-United States operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of the
approximately 80 countries in which we operate.             Our non-United States
operations accounted for approximately 78% of our consolidated revenue in 2008, 76% in 2007 and 73% in 2006. Operations in countries other than the United States are subject to various risks, including:         

unsettled political and economic conditions in certain areas;                  
   7   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1A                

exposure to possible expropriation or other governmental actions;          

social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict;            

confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies;            

deprivation of contract rights;            

trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the United States or other countries;            

restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital;            

exchange controls;            

inflation; and            

currency fluctuations and devaluations.               In addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including Iran, Syria, Sudan and Cuba, which are subject to trade and
economic sanctions or other restrictions imposed by the United States or other governments or organizations.      If any of the risks described
above materialize, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations.      We are also subject to risks related to investment
in our common stock in connection with certain US state divestment or investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the
market for our common stock.             Environmental compliance costs and liabilities
could reduce our earnings and cash available for operations.             We are
subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives, environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges
and waste management. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly expensive, complex and
stringent. These laws may provide for  strict liability  for damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of
the party. Some environmental laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances.      We use and generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. In addition, many of our current and former properties are or have been used for industrial purposes. Accordingly, we could become subject to potentially material
liabilities relating to the investigation and cleanup of contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of
existing laws and regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that
could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations. We believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations.         
   We could be subject to substantial liability claims, which would adversely affect our results and financial condition.             Certain equipment used in the delivery of oilfield services, such as
directional drilling equipment, perforating systems, subsea completion equipment, radioactive materials and explosives and well completion  
       
   8   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1A                  
 systems, are used in hostile environments, such as exploration, development and production applications. An accident or a failure of a product could cause
personal injury, loss of life, damage to property, equipment or the environment, and suspension of operations. Our insurance may not adequately protect us against liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against
losses resulting from business interruption. Moreover, in the future we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate. Substantial claims made under our policies could cause our premiums to
increase. Any future damages caused by our products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations.             If we are unable to maintain technology leadership in the form of services and products,
this could affect any competitive advantage we hold.             If we are unable to
develop and produce competitive technology or deliver them to our clients in the form of services and products in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could materially reduce our operating revenue and net income.
            Limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights,
including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive advantage we hold.             Some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been granted United States patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. Our business may be
adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. Our competitors may be
able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets.             We may be subject to litigation if another party claims that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights.             The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and components we use to provide our services
may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. Royalty payments under licenses from third parties,
if available, would increase our costs. If a license were not available we might not be able to continue providing a particular product or service, which would reduce our operating revenue. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would
increase our costs.             Failure to obtain and retain skilled technical
personnel could impede our operations.             We require highly skilled personnel
to operate and provide technical services and support for our business. Competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. In periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and
retain qualified individuals. This could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations.             Severe weather conditions may affect our operations.             Our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. This may entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. In
addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities until the platforms or structures have been repaired. Any of these events may have a material adverse effect on our operating
revenue.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 1B, 2, 3, 4          
           Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.  
           None.               Item 2.    Properties.             Schlumberger owns or leases manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing centers,
sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. No significant lease is scheduled to terminate in the near future, and Schlumberger believes comparable space is readily obtainable should any lease expire without renewal. Schlumberger believes its
properties are generally well maintained and adequate for their intended use.      Outside the United States the principal owned or leased
facilities of Oilfield Services are located in Beijing, China; Clamart and Abbeville, France; Fuchinobe, Japan; Oslo, Norway; Singapore; Abingdon, Cambridge and Stonehouse, United Kingdom; and Novosibirsk, Russia.      Within the United States, the principal owned or leased facilities of Oilfield Services are located in Boston, Massachusetts; Houston, Rosharon, and Sugar
Land, Texas; and Lawrence, Kansas.      The principal owned or leased facilities of WesternGeco are located in Bergen and Oslo, Norway; Gatwick,
United Kingdom; Houston, Texas, United States; and Mumbai, India.       
        Item 3.    Legal Proceedings.        
     The information with respect to Item 3 is set forth in Note 17 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements .               Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of
Security Holders.             No matters were submitted to a vote of
Schlumberger s security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this Report.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

   Part 1, Item 4                    Executive Officers of Schlumberger             Information with respect to the executive officers of Schlumberger and their ages as of
February 11, 2009 is set forth below. The positions for each executive officer have been held for at least five years, except where stated.         
       
   11   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 5                     PART II         

Item 5.   
     
   Market for Schlumberger s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.               As of January 31, 2009, there were 1,195,989,819 shares of common stock of Schlumberger
outstanding, exclusive of 138,222,345 shares held in treasury, and approximately 19,483 stockholders of record. The principal United States market for Schlumberger s common stock is the NYSE, where it is traded under the symbol  SLB .
     Schlumberger s common stock is also traded on the Euronext Paris, Euronext Amsterdam, London and SIX Swiss stock exchanges.
             Common Stock, Market Prices and Dividends Declared per Share     
        Quarterly high and low prices for Schlumberger common stock as reported by the NYSE
(composite transactions), together with dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2008 and 2007, were:         
          There are no legal restrictions on the
payment of dividends or ownership or voting of such shares, except as to shares held as treasury stock. Under current legislation, stockholders are not subject to any Netherlands Antilles withholding or other Netherlands Antilles taxes attributable
to the ownership of such shares.      The following graph compares the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total stockholder return on
Schlumberger common stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment into common stock of Schlumberger, with the cumulative total return on the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index and the cumulative total
return on Value Line s Oilfield Services Industry Group over the preceding five-year period ending on December 31, 2008. The stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. The following graph and
related information shall not be deemed  soliciting material  or to be  filed  with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that Schlumberger specifically incorporates it by reference into such filing.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 5                         COMPARISON OF FIVE-YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN      AMONG SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED, S P 500 INDEX      AND VALUE LINE S OILFIELD SERVICES INDUSTRY INDEX     

            Assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2003 in
Schlumberger Limited stock, in the S P 500 Index, and in Value Line s Oilfield Services Industry Index. Reflects reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment and annual reweighting of the Industry Peer Index portfolio.
        
   13   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 5                    Share Repurchases        
     On April 17, 2008, the Board of Directors of Schlumberger approved an $8 billion share repurchase program for shares of Schlumberger common stock to
be acquired in the open market before December 31, 2011.      The following table sets forth information on Schlumberger s common
stock repurchase program activity for the three months ended December 31, 2008.         
          In connection with the exercise of
stock options under Schlumberger s incentive compensation plans, Schlumberger routinely receives shares of its common stock from optionholders in consideration of the exercise price of the stock options. Schlumberger does not view these
transactions as implicating the disclosure required under this Item. The number of shares of Schlumberger common stock received from optionholders is immaterial.              Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities              During the quarter ended December 31, 2008, Schlumberger issued 286,400 shares of its common stock upon conversion by holders of $11 million aggregate principal
amount of its 2.125% Series B Convertible Debentures due June 1, 2023. Such shares were issued in transactions exempt from registration under Section 3(a)(9) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 6                      Item 6.    Selected Financial Data.
            The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in
conjunction with  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data,  both contained in this Report:         
             
   15   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 6                

1.  
     
  Excludes amounts which are either included in the segments or Charges and Credits.     

2.  
     
  For details of Charges and Credits and the related income taxes and minority interest, see Note 3 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements.      

3.  
     
  Amounts may not add due to rounding.     

4.  
     
   Net Debt  represents gross debt less cash, short-term investments and fixed income investments, held to maturity. Management believes that Net Debt provides useful
information regarding the level of Schlumberger s indebtedness by reflecting cash and investments that could be used to repay debt.           
   16   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                      Item 7.    Management s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.             The following
discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements relating to our plans, strategies, objectives, expectations, intentions and resources. Such forward-looking statements should be read in
conjunction with our disclosures under  Item 1A. Risk Factors  of this Report.             Executive Overview             As 2008 progressed, early optimism of
continuing growth in oil and natural gas exploration and production activity was dampened by growing evidence of weakening economic conditions that began to significantly weigh upon the energy markets in early October. While such weakening did not
prevent oil prices from ramping up steeply to $147-per-barrel in July, the velocity of the subsequent reversal to under $40-per-barrel by the end of the year was supported by economic reports and forecasts that confirmed the majority of the OECD
(Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development) countries to be in recession by the end of the third quarter. Consequently, global oil demand forecasts for 2008 dropped from quarter to quarter and it became apparent that moderating oil
demand growth in the non-OECD economies would no longer be sufficient to offset a continuing three-year demand decline within the OECD countries. As a result, 2008 saw the first global oil demand decrease in 25 years. In the fourth quarter OPEC
elected to cut production by a total of 3.7 million barrels per day to remove supply and support prices, however, the time taken for these cuts to be felt in the market, and for the resultant increased spare capacity to be reabsorbed by future
growth, was large enough for E P customers to cut investment. This translated to lower demand and weaker prices for oilfield services in an increasing number of areas late in the fourth quarter.      The natural gas markets presented a similar picture. While activity was initially maintained in the first part of the year, the developing recession in
the latter part of 2008 led to lower industrial demand in the developed economies although commercial and residential demand was maintained. In North America, supply increased by 6% in 2008 largely as a result of industry deployment of advanced
drilling, production and completion technologies leading to higher gas production and consequently greater storage levels in spite of lower Canadian imports and decreased LNG (Liquified Natural Gas) supplies. Consequently, more LNG has become
available for other international importers and, as a result, the majority of the developed economies are well supplied for their needs. Within the United States, the world s largest natural gas market, this translated to reduced gas
exploration and production investment with lower demand for oilfield services and consequent pressure on service pricing in a number of areas by the fourth quarter as the market price of natural gas fell. In international markets however, increasing
demand for natural gas in the developing economies led to sustained drilling activity with drilling rigs previously deployed on oil exploration and development moving to natural gas activity in some regions.      Within this volatile market, Schlumberger Oilfield Services revenue in 2008 grew by 20% versus 2007, with demand strongest in international markets.
Year-on-year growth rates reached 28% in Latin America, 24% in Europe/CIS/Africa, 18% in Middle East   Asia and 11% in North America. All Technologies experienced double-digit growth, most notably in Well Services, Drilling  
Measurements and Wireline. These results mask, however, a rapid reversal that occurred late in the year in response to the worsening economic climate, and, after three quarters of overall growth, revenues in the fourth quarter declined sequentially
through weakening local currencies and reduced customer spending, in addition to seasonal factors.      A variety of new Schlumberger products
and services contributed to growth in 2008. These included further penetration of Scanner Family* advanced wireline logging services and Scope* imaging-while-drilling technologies into new markets as customers sought to increase their understanding
of complex reservoirs. Growth through measurement integration also extended into the production domain with offerings such as the StimMAP* LIVE real-time fracture monitoring service that combines the measurement capability of Wireline with the
pressure pumping expertise of Well Services to track the progress of fracture stimulation in real time  
       
   17   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                  
 to be able to control the operation for maximum effect. Other new production-related services included ACTive* coiled-tubing services that combine a downhole
sensor package with a fiber-optic communications system to monitor coiled-tubing-enabled operations in real time.      Acquisitions in 2008 also
served to increase Schlumberger capabilities or added specific new technologies to the portfolio. In Canada, Schlumberger and First Reserve Corporation acquired Saxon Energy Services Inc., a land drilling contractor with major activity in North and
South America. Schlumberger had already enjoyed a long association with Saxon, including operation of joint ventures in Mexico and Colombia for the supply of drilling services that support integrated project management activities. Also in Canada,
Schlumberger acquired the business of Extreme Engineering Limited, a leading supplier of unmanned measurement-while-drilling systems to land markets in the United States and Canada. Other technology acquisitions included Integrated Exploration
Systems, a Germany-based technology leader in petroleum systems modeling, and Staag Imaging, a Houston-based provider of leading-edge depth imaging technologies for seismic data processing.      The performance of WesternGeco, where full-year 2008 revenue fell by 4% versus 2007, was limited by a combination of lower Multiclient sales, reduced Land
activity, and cost inflation that affected Marine operations. Among these factors, Multiclient sales were particularly weak with the sharp decrease reported in the first quarter not being reversed later in the year as a clear indication of customers
restricting discretionary spending for seismic data. Contract awards remained strong, however, and WesternGeco reported a record backlog of $1.8 billion at the end of the year, up $700 million from the end of the third quarter.      In spite of this weaker-than-expected performance, WesternGeco made significant progress in the introduction of new technology during the year. These
included a new proprietary full-azimuth marine acquisition technique, known as coil shooting, that leverages the signal fidelity and streamer-steering capability of Q* technology to provide resolution in sub-salt applications where wide-azimuth
techniques mobilize too many resources. Coil shooting provides the same quality survey but uses only one vessel to do so. In other new technology developments, the UniQ* latest-generation land acquisition system was unveiled. This substantially
increases the number of acquisition channels available and in combination with proprietary vibrator source technology delivers a sharper image and wider coverage.      The sharp drop in oil and gas prices in the latter part of 2008 that resulted in lower activity, higher inventories, and the belief that demand will erode further in 2009 as a result of the economic slowdown, has led
to rapid and substantial reductions in exploration and production expenditure. At current prices most of the new categories of hydrocarbon resources such as heavy oil, tar sands, coal-to-liquids, or gas-to-liquids are not economic to develop. In
addition, it will take time for inflation to be removed from the E P supply chain to bring finding and development costs more in line with lower oil and gas prices.      Schlumberger therefore expects 2009 activity to weaken across the board, with the most significant declines occurring in North American gas drilling, Russian oil production enhancement, and in mature offshore basins.
Exploration offshore will also be somewhat curtailed but commitments already planned are likely to be honored. Seismic expenditures, particularly for multiclient data, are likely to decrease from the levels of 2008. Furthermore, pricing erosion will
compound these effects on revenue. In this market we are taking the necessary actions early in 2009 to adjust our operating cost base while preserving our long-term commitments to technology development, key skill sets and service and product
quality.      The most important indicator of a future recovery in oilfield services activity will be a stabilization and recovery in the demand
for oil. The recent years of increased exploration and production spending, however, have not been sufficient to substantially improve the supply situation. The age of the production base, accelerating decline rates and the smaller size of recently
developed fields will mean that any prolonged reduction in investment will lead to a strong rebound in activity in the future.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   The following discussion and analysis of results of operations should be read
in conjunction with the  Consolidated Financial Statements .         

1.  
     
  Effective January 1, 2008, a component of the Middle East   Asia Area was reallocated to the Europe/CIS/Africa Area. Prior period data has been reclassified to conform
to the current organizational structure.              Pretax
operating income represents the business segments  income before taxes and minority interest. Pretax operating income excludes corporate expenses, interest income, interest expense, amortization of certain intangibles, interest, stock-based
compensation costs and the Charges and Credits described in detail in Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements,  as these items are not allocated to the segments.              Oilfield Services               Fourth Quarter 2008 Results             Fourth-quarter revenue of $6.26 billion was 2% lower sequentially but was 15% higher year-on-year. Sequentially, Europe/CIS/Africa revenue declined primarily due to a weakening of the local currencies against the US
dollar and from lower activity in Russia as the result of reduced customer spending and seasonal slowdowns. In Latin America, revenue fell due to weaker local currencies and lower activity in the Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago and
Mexico/Central America GeoMarkets. Middle East   Asia declined on lower activity in the Australia/Papua New Guinea/New Zealand and Qatar GeoMarkets. These decreases, however, were partially offset by an increase in North America as the
result of strong activity in the US Gulf of Mexico and US land West GeoMarkets. Local currency changes reduced Oilfield Services fourth-quarter revenue by approximately 3%.      Fourth-quarter pretax operating income of $1.60 billion was 6% lower sequentially but 4% higher year-on-year. Sequentially, pretax operating margin
decreased from 26.7% to 25.6% primarily as a result of reduced activity levels in the Europe/CIS/Africa, Latin America and Middle East   Asia Areas, partially offset by the improvement in overall activity and a more favorable revenue mix in
North America.             North America             Revenue of $1.56 billion increased 4% sequentially and 17% year-on-year. Pretax operating
income of $346 million increased 9% sequentially and 2% year-on-year.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   Sequentially, the US Gulf of Mexico GeoMarket activity recovered from the
slowdown experienced during the hurricane season of the third quarter and realized further growth on a higher ultra deep-water rig count that led to strong demand for Wireline, Well Testing and Well Services technologies. The US land West GeoMarket
revenue increased on strong demand for Well Services and Drilling   Measurements services and Artificial Lift products while the Alaska GeoMarket experienced a seasonal increase in activity that resulted in robust demand for Well Services
and Drilling   Measurements technologies. SIS experienced growth from strong year-end software and hardware sales. These increases were partially offset by decreased revenue in the US land Central and North GeoMarkets on reducing rig count
that accelerated at quarter end. Canada GeoMarket revenue was also lower primarily as the result of the weakening of the Canadian dollar.      Pretax operating margin improved sequentially from 21.1% to 22.3% mainly as a result of stronger activity levels and increased high-margin services in the US Gulf of Mexico, US land West and Alaska GeoMarkets. These increases were partially
offset by pricing pressure in the US land Central and North GeoMarkets.             Latin America
            Revenue of $1.11 billion was 3% lower sequentially but increased 18%
year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $200 million decreased 13% sequentially and 4% year-on-year.      Sequentially, revenue in the
Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago GeoMarket declined as a result of lower demand for Wireline and Well Services technologies and Completions products, while the Mexico/Central America GeoMarket experienced lower activity in Integrated Project
Management (IPM) projects. These decreases were partially offset by higher offshore exploration-related activity in the Brazil GeoMarket that led to robust demand for Wireline, Well Testing and Drilling   Measurements services, while
activity in the Peru/Colombia/Ecuador GeoMarket increased due to strong demand for Artificial Lift and SIS products. Area revenue was also reduced by approximately 4% due to the weakening of local currencies against the US dollar.      Pretax operating margin declined sequentially from 20.1% to 18.0% from lower activity and a less favorable revenue mix in the
Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago GeoMarket, reduced gain share from IPM projects in the Peru/Colombia/Ecuador GeoMarket, and cost inflation and a less favorable revenue mix in the Mexico/Central America GeoMarket.             Europe/CIS/Africa        
     Revenue of $2.05 billion decreased 5% sequentially but increased 16% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $533 million decreased 15% sequentially but
was 8% higher year-on-year.      Sequentially, Area revenue was 5% lower due to the weakening of local currencies against the US dollar
particularly in the North Sea, Continental Europe and Russia. Additionally, Russia experienced significant reductions in activity from lower customer spending and the seasonal slowdown in Sakhalin. Lower Framo revenue also contributed to the
decline. These decreases were partially offset by significantly increased activity in the Libya GeoMarket from strong demand for Artificial Lift products and for Drilling   Measurements, Well Testing and Wireline services, as well as in the
Continental Europe GeoMarket from higher demand for Wireline and Drilling   Measurements technologies.      Pretax operating margin
decreased sequentially from 29.0% to 26.1% primarily due to lower activity and a less favorable revenue mix in the North Sea and Nigeria   Gulf of Guinea GeoMarkets and Russia. The decrease in Framo revenue also contributed to this result.
            Middle East   Asia             Revenue of $1.47 billion was 2% lower sequentially but 9% higher year-on-year. Pretax
operating income of $491 million decreased 7% sequentially but increased 4% year-on-year.      Sequentially, Area revenue declined mainly as a
result of weather-related effects in the Australia/Papua New Guinea/New Zealand and China/Japan/Korea GeoMarkets, lower activity in Qatar, a less favorable activity  
       
   20   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                  
 mix in Brunei/Malaysia/Philippines and reduced customer spending in the China/Japan/Korea and Arabian GeoMarkets. These declines primarily affected demand
for Wireline, Drilling   Measurements and Well Services technologies, but were partially offset by the positive impact of retroactive price adjustments for a Wireline contract in addition to growth in the Gulf GeoMarket for Artificial Lift
products and Well Services and Drilling   Measurements technologies.      Pretax operating margin declined sequentially from 35.5% to
33.5% primarily due to the overall lower level of activity in the Area as well as a less favorable revenue mix in the Arabian and India GeoMarkets.             Total Year 2008 Results             Full-year 2008 revenue of $24.28 billion increased 20% versus 2007 driven by Area growth of 28% in Latin America, 24% in Europe/CIS/Africa, 18% in Middle East   Asia and 11% in North America.      All Technologies experienced double-digit growth most notably in Well Services, Drilling   Measurements and Wireline.      Pretax operating income of $6.50 billion in 2008 was 9% higher than 2007. However, pretax operating margin declined 256 basis points (bps) to 26.8%
primarily due to reduced pricing for well stimulation services in the US land GeoMarkets, a higher mix of low-margin third-party managed services in the Mexico/Central America GeoMarket and cost inflation across all Areas.             North America        
     Revenue of $5.91 billion grew 11% versus 2007. Growth was led by the US land West GeoMarket mostly due to increased gas shale activity that resulted in
robust demand for Well Services and Drilling   Measurements technologies and by the US land Central GeoMarket on higher rig activity and strong Artificial Lift product sales. The Canada GeoMarket revenue was higher from demand for Well
Services and Drilling   Measurements technologies while the US Gulf of Mexico GeoMarket grew on increased deepwater activity the resulted in strong demand for Drilling   Measurements and Wireline services in addition to Completion
Systems products.      Pretax operating margin decreased 557 bps to 23.2% primarily as the result of lower pricing for well stimulation services
in the US land GeoMarkets and cost inflation across the Area.             Latin America
            Revenue of $4.23 billion was 28% higher than 2007 on double-digit growth
across all GeoMarkets. The Mexico/Central America GeoMarket increased on significantly higher IPM activity while the Peru/Colombia/Ecuador GeoMarket also experienced increased IPM activity in addition to robust demand for Wireline services and for
Artificial Lift and SIS products. The Brazil GeoMarket grew on higher offshore activity that resulted in stronger demand for Well Testing, Wireline and Well Services technologies. The Venezuela/Trinidad and Tobago GeoMarket experienced increased
demand for Wireline, Drilling   Measurements and Well Services activities.      Pretax operating margin of 20.3% declined 262 bps
versus 2007 as a result of an increased mix of low-margin third-party managed services in the Mexico/Central America GeoMarket and cost inflation across the Area.             Europe/CIS/Africa             Revenue of $8.18 billion increased 24% versus the same period last year. Growth was led by Russia which experienced strong demand for Wireline, Well Services and
Drilling   Measurements technologies. The West   South Africa, North Sea and Caspian GeoMarkets grew on increased exploration-related services as well as strong demand for Well Services technologies. The Continental Europe
GeoMarket was higher due to strong drilling-related activities and demand for SIS products. The consolidation of Framo also contributed to the increase.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   Pretax operating margin decreased 112 bps to 27.4% primarily as a result of
reduced pricing in the Libya GeoMarket and a less favorable revenue mix in the Nigeria   Gulf of Guinea GeoMarket and Russia. The consolidation of Framo also reduced total Area margin.             Middle East   Asia             Revenue of $5.72 billion was 18% higher than the prior year. All GeoMarkets experienced growth, most notably in the Arabian, Australia/Papua
New Guinea/New Zealand, Gulf, and East Mediterranean GeoMarkets. Among the Technologies, growth was strongest in Wireline, Drilling   Measurements, Well Services and Well Testing.      Pretax operating margin was nearly flat at 35.0% as the positive impact of the higher overall activity level was offset by cost inflation.             Total Year 2007 Results             Full-year 2007 revenue of $20.31 billion increased 21% versus 2006, led by Area growths of 31% in both the Middle East   Asia, and
in Europe/CIS/Africa and 29% in Latin America, while North America remained essentially flat. Pretax operating income of $5.96 billion in 2007 was 28% higher than 2006.      Pretax operating margins of 29.3% improved 164 bps in 2007 versus 2006. Higher activity and expansion of higher-margin new technology deployment across Europe/CIS/Africa, Middle East   Asia and Latin America
Areas were the principal contributors to this performance. In North America, pricing erosion in pressure-pumping well-stimulation activities moderated year-on-year margin growth within the Area.      Among the GeoMarkets, the greatest increases in revenue were recorded in the North Sea, followed by Mexico/Central America, Arabian, West   South
Africa, and Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago.      Significant demand was seen for all Technologies led by Drilling   Measurements,
Wireline, Well Testing, and Completions Systems as customers continued to improve exploration and production performance in the search for new hydrocarbon reserves and in the need to increase production and boost recovery from existing fields.
            North America             Revenue of $5.34 billion increased marginally over 2006 primarily due to higher demand for Drilling   Measurements, Well Testing
and Wireline activities in the US Land Central, US Land North and the US Gulf Coast GeoMarkets. However, this performance was offset by pricing erosion in well stimulation activities across the Area.      Activity across US Land continued to grow driven by the increase in rig count and higher service intensity in unconventional natural gas reservoirs.
However, weakness in natural gas prices and excess well stimulation related pressure pumping capacity led to a year-on-year decline in pricing in stimulation related activities. The US Gulf Coast GeoMarket continued to grow driven by demand for
exploration related activities.      In Canada year-on-year revenue declined sharply due to operator slowdown driven by weakness in natural gas
prices and uncertainty over the fiscal regime.      Pretax operating margin declined by 167 bps to 28.8% primarily due to lower pricing in well
stimulation related activities across the Area together with lower activity in Canada.             Latin America             Revenue of $3.30 billion in 2007 increased 29%
over 2006, led by a surge in IPM-related activity in Mexico following the budget-related slowdowns in the previous year, followed by the growth in exploration-related activities in the Peru/Columbia/Ecuador and Latin America South GeoMarkets. The
Venezuela/Trinidad   Tobago GeoMarket also grew with higher rig count-driven activity in addition to finalization of the contracts related to drilling barges.       
  
   22   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   The Mexico/Central America GeoMarket recorded robust growth with the start of
several integrated projects. Peru/Columbia/Ecuador and Latin America South witnessed strong growth in exploration-related activities. Demand was strong for all Technologies led by IPM, followed by Drilling   Measurements, Wireline and Well
Testing services.      Pretax operating margin increased strongly by 358 bps to reach 22.9%. This increase resulted mainly from a favorable
activity mix and improved pricing.             Europe/CIS/Africa             Revenue of $6.60 billion in 2007 increased 31% over 2006 with the highest growth recorded in
the North Sea, West   South Africa and North Africa GeoMarkets.      Strong revenue increases were recorded in the North Sea,
West   South Africa and North Africa driven by the expansion of exploration-related activities. GeoMarkets in Russia continued to grow strongly due to a combination of organic growth and the completion of the acquisition of
Tyumenpromgeofizika during the second quarter of the year.      Pretax operating margins increased by 301 bps to reach 28.6%. This performance
was due to a combination of increased activity, improved pricing and accelerated new technology deployment across most GeoMarkets partially offset by a pricing decline in well stimulation activities in the East Russia and subdued activity in
Nigeria.             Middle East   Asia             Revenue of $4.87 billion in 2007 increased 31% over 2006 with the largest increases recorded
in the Arabian GeoMarket, followed by East Mediterranean, Australia/Papua New Guinea, Qatar, Gulf and India.      The Australia/Papua New Guinea
GeoMarket recorded the highest growth rate in the Area driven by higher exploration related activity. Growth in East Mediterranean, Qatar, Gulf and India resulted from higher exploration and development activity while the Arabian GeoMarket continued
to grow, albeit at a lower rate than the previous year, as new rig additions slowed down in Saudi Arabia.      Pretax operating margin increased
by 296 bps to an impressive 35.1%. This performance was driven by continued increase in activity and pricing increases together with deployment of higher-margin Wireline and Drilling   Measurements new technologies.              WesternGeco         
      Fourth Quarter 2008 Results             Fourth-quarter revenue of $599 million decreased 33% sequentially and 25% year-on-year. Pretax operating income of $88 million was 75% lower sequentially and 68% lower
year-on-year.      Sequentially, Marine revenue decreased significantly due to seasonal vessel transits, dry docks and project startups.
Multiclient revenue was also down markedly as customers reduced discretionary spending. Land revenue, however, increased due to higher utilization and the start of new projects in Latin America and Africa while Data Processing recorded modest
growth.      Pretax operating margin decreased sequentially from 39.8% to 14.7% due to lower Marine vessel utilization, higher transits and the
slowdown in Multiclient sales, the effects of which were only partially offset by the higher Land crew utilization.             Total Year 2008 Results             Full-year 2008 revenue of $2.84 billion was 4% lower than 2007. Multiclient revenue was down 18%, primarily as the result of significantly lower client discretionary spending in the fourth quarter of 2008, while Land

23   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                  
 decreased 15% on lower crew utilization. These decreases were partially offset by a 4% revenue increase in Marine, as a result of additional vessel capacity
and higher pricing, and a 19% increase in Data Processing, which experienced a growth in activity in all geographic areas.      Pretax operating
margin of 29.5% decreased 634 basis points due to significantly lower Multiclient sales, reduced Land activity and cost inflation that affected Marine operations.      Revenue backlog was $1.8 billion at the end of 2008, compared to $1.2 billion at the end of 2007, of which an estimated $1.3 billion is expected to be realized in 2009.             Total Year 2007 Results             Full-year 2007 revenue of $2.96 billion increased 20% versus 2006. Pretax operating income of $1.06 billion in 2007 was 31% higher than
2006. Pretax operating margin reached 35.8%   an increase of 299 bps in 2007 versus 2006   demonstrating continued high vessel utilization, pricing increases in Marine and accelerating demand for exploration-driven seismic services.
Q-Technology revenue reached $1.14 billion, representing 38% of 2007 full-year revenue.      Marine revenue grew 17% due mainly to strong
activity in Asia, Middle East, India, Europe and North America as operators continued to focus on new exploration horizons. High vessel utilization, continued adoption of Q-Technology and improved pricing contributed to this performance. Multiclient
revenue increased 30% driven by higher sales in North America as the demand for E-Dog and E-Cat surveys remained strong during the first half of the year augmented by strong demand for E-Octopus surveys during the second half. Data Processing
revenue increased 26%, reflecting higher acquisition volumes, higher levels of Q processing, and higher activity in India, Asia, North Africa, Europe and the Caspian. Land revenue increased 6% with the continued adoption of Q-Land* technology in
Africa and in the Middle East.      During the second quarter of 2007, the seventh Q-Technology equipped vessel   the Western Spirit  
was launched.      Revenue backlog was $1.2 billion at the end of 2007 compared to $1.1 billion at the end of 2006.              Interest and Other Income              Interest and other income consisted of the following:         

1.  
     
  Refer to Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements  for details.           
    Interest Income              The average return on investments decreased to 3.5% in 2008 from 5.2% in 2007 and the weighted average investment balance of $3.4 billion in 2008 increased $286 million compared to 2007.      The average return on investments increased to 5.2% in 2007 from 4.5% in 2006 and the weighted average investment balance of $3.1 billion in 2007
increased $531 million compared to 2006.              Equity in Net Earnings of Affiliated
Companies              The equity in net earnings of affiliated companies
primarily represents Schlumberger s share of the results of its 40% interest in the M-I SWACO drilling fluids joint venture with Smith International Inc.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                     Interest Expense              Interest expense of $247 million in 2008 decreased by $27 million compared to 2007 due to a decline in the weighted average borrowing rates,
from 5.0% to 4.5%. The weighted average debt balance of $5.5 billion in 2008 was essentially flat compared to 2007 .       Interest expense
of $275 million in 2007 increased by $40 million compared to 2006. The weighted average borrowing rates of 5.0% in 2007 increased from 4.6% in 2006. The weighted average debt balance of $5.5 billion in 2007 increased by $420 million compared to
2006, primarily due to the funding, in the second quarter of 2006, of the WesternGeco transaction described in Note 4 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements.               Other              Gross margin was 30.2%, 33.5% and 31.4% in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.      The decline in gross margin percentage in 2008, compared to 2007, was primarily attributable to the following factors: reduced pricing for well stimulation services in the US Land GeoMarkets, a higher mix of
low-margin third-party managed services in the Mexico/Central America GeoMarket, significantly lower Multiclient sales in WesternGeco and the impact of cost inflation across all Areas within Oilfield Services as well as the Marine operations of
WesternGeco.      The increase in gross margin percentage in 2007, compared to 2006, was primarily due to increased pricing, stronger demand for
higher-margin technologies, and operating efficiency improvements.      As a percentage of Revenue, Research   engineering, Marketing
and General   administrative expenses were as follows:         

*  
     
  Research   engineering in 2006 included $27 million of in-process research and development charges associated with acquisitions. See discussion of the Charges and Credits
in Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements .              Research   engineering expenditures, by segment, were as follows:         

1.  
     
  See discussion of Charges and Credits in Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements .     

2.  
     
  Includes $16 million of cost in 2006 associated with Schlumberger s relocation of its United States research center from Ridgefield to Boston.                Income Taxes              The effective tax rate was 20.9% in 2008, 21.9% in 2007 and 24.0% in 2006.      The Schlumberger effective tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of earnings. When the percentage of pretax earnings generated outside of North
America increases, the Schlumberger effective tax rate will generally decrease. Conversely, when the percentage of pretax earnings generated outside of North America decreases, the Schlumberger effective tax rate will generally increase.   
     
   25   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2008, as compared to 2007, was
primarily attributable to the geographic mix of earnings. Oilfield Services had a lower proportion of pretax earnings in North America. Also, outside North America, various GeoMarkets with lower tax rates contributed a greater percentage to pretax
earnings.      The decrease in the effective tax rate in 2007, as compared to 2006, was primarily attributable to the geographic mix of
earnings. Both Oilfield Services and WesternGeco had a lower proportion of pretax earnings in North America. Outside North America, various GeoMarkets with lower tax rates contributed a greater percentage to pretax earnings.              Charges and Credits              Schlumberger recorded significant charges and credits during 2008, 2007 and 2006. These charges and credits, which are summarized below, are
more fully described in Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements .      The following is a summary of the 2008 Charges and Credits:
        
          The following is a
summary of the 2007 Charges and Credits:         

(Stated in millions)   

Pretax   

Tax   
      
   Minority Interest   
      
   Net   

Income Statement Classification    
 
    Charges and Credits   

- Gain on sale of workover rigs   
      
  $  
  (24.5  
  )  
      
  $  
  7.1  
      
  $  

$  
  (17.4  
  )  
      
   Interest and other income    

The following is a
summary of the 2006 Charges and Credits:         

(Stated in millions)   

Pretax   
      
   Tax   
      
   Minority Interest   

Net   
      
   Income Statement Classification    
 
    Charges and Credits   

WesternGeco in-process R D charge   
      
  $  
  21.0  
      
  $  

$  

$  
  21.0  
      
   Research   engineering    
 
     Loss on liquidation of investments to fund WesternGeco transaction   

9.4  

9.4  
      
   Interest and other income    
 
     WesternGeco visa settlement   

9.7  

0.3  

(3.2  
  )  

6.8  
      
   Cost of goods sold and services    
 
     Other in-process R D charges   

5.6  

5.6  
      
   Research   engineering    

Net Charges   
      
  $  
  45.7  
      
  $  
  0.3  
      
  $  
  (3.2  
  )  
      
  $  
  42.8  

Cash Flow              Net Debt represents gross debt less cash, short-term investments and fixed
income investments, held to maturity. Management believes that Net Debt provides useful information regarding the level of Schlumberger s indebtedness by reflecting cash and investments that could be used to repay debt.               
   26   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   Details of Net Debt follow:         

1.  
     
  Includes Multiclient seismic data costs.           
          Key liquidity events during 2008, 2007
and 2006 included:         

In September 2008, Schlumberger Finance B.V. issued  500 million 5.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2013. Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these Euro
notes for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this a US dollar denominated debt on which Schlumberger Finance B.V. will pay interest in US dollars at a rate of 4.74%. The proceeds from these notes were used to repay
commercial paper borrowings.            

On July 22, 2004, the Board of Directors of Schlumberger approved a share repurchase program of up to 30 million shares of common stock to be acquired in
the open market before December 2006, subject to market conditions. This program was completed during the first quarter of 2006.               On April 20, 2006, the Board of Directors of Schlumberger approved a share repurchase program of up to 40 million shares of common stock to be
acquired in the open market before April 2010, subject to market conditions. This program was completed during the second quarter of 2008.            On April 17, 2008, the Board of Directors of Schlumberger approved an $8 billion share repurchase program for shares of Schlumberger common stock to
be acquired in the open market before December 31, 2011, of which $934 million has been repurchased as of December 31, 2008.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   The following table summarizes the activity under these share repurchase
programs during 2008, 2007 and 2006:         
          Given the current credit and economic
environment, Schlumberger anticipates that the total dollar amount of stock repurchases in 2009 may be significantly less than the $1.8 billion spent during 2008. This anticipated reduction will serve to increase Schlumberger s financial
flexibility during these uncertain times. Stock buy-back activity during 2009 will continue to be targeted to offset any dilution caused by the Schlumberger stock-based compensation programs.         

Outside of the US, Schlumberger s International Staff Pension Plan, which was converted to a defined benefit pension
plan during the fourth quarter of 2008 (and therefore accounts for approximately half of the increase in the Postretirement Benefits liability on the  Consolidated Balance Sheet  at December 31, 2008), and UK pension plan are a combined
69% funded at December 31, 2008 based on the projected benefit obligation. The UK pension plan was 92% funded at December 31, 2007.            Schlumberger currently anticipates contributing approximately $400 million to $500 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2009, subject to market
and business conditions.         

28   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   At December 31, 2008, there were no outstanding Series A debentures and
there were $321 million outstanding Series B debentures.         

On December 10, 2007, Schlumberger completed the acquisition of Eastern Echo for $838 million in cash. Net assets acquired included $320 million of cash and
investments and $182 million of long-term debt.            

On April 28, 2006, Schlumberger acquired the remaining 30% minority interest in WesternGeco from Baker Hughes Incorporated for $2.4 billion in cash.
Approximately 50% of the purchase price was funded from Schlumberger s cash and investments. The remaining 50% was financed through existing Schlumberger credit facilities.            

In September 2006, Schlumberger Finance B.V. issued  400 million Guaranteed Floating Rate Notes due 2009. Interest is payable quarterly at the rate of 10
basis points over 3-month Euribor. Schlumberger entered into an agreement to swap these Euro notes for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this US dollar denominated debt on which Schlumberger Finance B.V. will pay
interest in US dollars at the rate of 3-month LIBOR plus 0.0875%. The proceeds from these notes were used to repay commercial paper borrowings.               As of December 31, 2008, Schlumberger had approximately $3.7 billion of cash and short-term investments on hand. Wholly-owned
subsidiaries of Schlumberger had separate committed debt facility agreements aggregating $3.9 billion with commercial banks, of which $1.8 billion was available and unused as of December 31, 2008. Schlumberger believes that these amounts are
sufficient to meet future business requirements for at least the next twelve months.      The current portion of long-term debt at
December 31, 2008 has increased by $0.5 billion to $1.1 billion, as compared to December 31, 2007. This increase is primarily attributable to the outstanding  400 million Guaranteed Floating Rate Notes due 2009 being reclassified
from long-term debt at December 21, 2008 to current at December 31, 2008 due to their maturity in the next twelve months.      Schlumberger s total outstanding debt at December 31, 2008 was $5.3 billion and included approximately $1.1 billion of commercial paper borrowings. The total outstanding debt decreased approximately $0.2 billion compared to
December 31, 2007.              Summary of Major Contractual Obligations

1.  
     
  Excludes future payments for interest. Includes amounts relating to the $321 million of Convertible Debentures which are described in Note 11 of the  Consolidated Financial
Statements .     

2.  
     
  Represents an estimate of contractual obligations in the ordinary course of business. Although these contractual obligations are considered enforceable and legally binding, the
terms generally allow Schlumberger the option to reschedule and adjust their requirements based on business needs prior to the delivery of goods.           
  Refer to Note 19 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements  for details regarding Schlumberger s pension and other postretirement benefit obligations.
        
   29   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                   As discussed in Note 15 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements ,
included in the Schlumberger  Consolidated Balance Sheet  at December 31, 2008 is approximately $877 million of liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions in the over 100 jurisdictions in which Schlumberger conducts business. Due
to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, combined with the difficulty in predicting when tax audits throughout the world may be concluded, Schlumberger cannot make reliable estimates of the timing of cash outflows relating to
these liabilities.      Schlumberger has outstanding letters of credit/guarantees which relate to business performance bonds, custom/excise tax
commitments, facility lease/rental obligations, etc. These were entered into in the ordinary course of business and are customary practices in the various countries where Schlumberger operates.              Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates              The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires Schlumberger to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of
revenue and expenses. The following accounting policies involve  critical accounting estimates  because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by Schlumberger about matters that are inherently uncertain. A
summary of all of Schlumberger s significant accounting policies is included in Note 2 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements .      Schlumberger bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets
and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.             Multiclient Seismic Data             The WesternGeco segment capitalizes the costs associated with obtaining multiclient seismic data. The carrying value of the multiclient seismic data library at December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $287 million and $182
million, respectively. Such costs are charged to  Cost of goods sold and services  based on the percentage of the total costs to the estimated total revenue that Schlumberger expects to receive from the sales of such data. However, under no
circumstances will an individual survey carry a net book value greater than a 4-year straight-line amortized value.      The carrying value of
surveys is reviewed for impairment annually as well as when an event or change in circumstance indicates an impairment may have occurred. Adjustments to the carrying value are recorded when it is determined that estimated future revenues, which
involve significant judgment on the part of Schlumberger, would not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of the surveys. Significant adverse changes in Schlumberger s estimated future cash flows could result in impairment charges in a
future period. For purposes of performing the annual impairment test of the multiclient library, future cash flows are analyzed primarily based on two pools of surveys: United States and non-United States. The United States and non-United States
pools were determined to be the most appropriate level at which to perform the impairment review based upon a number of factors including (i) various macroeconomic factors that influence the ability to successfully market surveys and
(ii) the focus of the sales force and related costs. Certain larger surveys are analyzed for impairment on a survey by survey basis. These surveys are typically significantly prefunded by customers and accordingly, management has determined
that it is not appropriate to include them within the United States and non-United States pools for impairment review purposes.         
   30   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                    Allowance for Doubtful Accounts             Schlumberger maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts in order to record accounts
receivable at their net realizable value. A significant amount of judgment is involved in recording and making adjustments to this reserve. Allowances have been recorded for receivables believed to be uncollectible, including amounts for
the resolution of potential credit and other collection issues such as disputed invoices. Depending on how such potential issues are resolved, or if the financial condition of Schlumberger customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of
their ability to make payments, adjustments to the allowance may be required.             Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets             Schlumberger
records as goodwill the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  (SFAS 142),
requires goodwill to be tested for impairment annually as well as when an event or change in circumstance indicates an impairment may have occurred. Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of Schlumberger s individual
reporting units to their carrying amount to determine if there is a potential goodwill impairment. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the implied fair value of
the goodwill of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value.      For purposes of performing the impairment test for goodwill as required
by SFAS 142, Schlumberger s reporting units are primarily the geographic areas comprising the Oilfield Services segment in addition to the WesternGeco segment. Schlumberger estimates the fair value of these reporting units using a discounted
cash flow analysis and/or applying various market multiples. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is a matter of judgment and often involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Schlumberger s estimates of the fair value
of each of its reporting units were significantly in excess of their respective carrying values at the time of the annual goodwill impairment tests for 2008, 2007 and 2006.      Long-lived assets, including fixed assets and intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the
carrying value may not be recoverable. In reviewing for impairment, the carrying value of such assets is compared to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition. If such cash flows
are not sufficient to support the asset s recorded value, an impairment charge is recognized to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset to its estimated fair value. The determination of future cash flows as well as the estimated fair
value of long-lived assets involves significant estimates on the part of management. If there is a material change in economic conditions or other circumstances influencing the estimate of future cash flows or fair value, Schlumberger could be
required to recognize impairment charges in the future. Schlumberger evaluates the remaining useful life of its intangible assets on a periodic basis to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining estimated
amortization period.             Income Taxes             Schlumberger s tax filings are subject to regular audit by the tax authorities in most
of the over 100 jurisdictions in which it conducts business. These audits may result in assessments for additional taxes which are resolved with the authorities or, potentially, through the courts. Tax liabilities are recorded based on estimates of
additional taxes which will be due upon the conclusion of these audits. Estimates of these tax liabilities are made based upon prior experience and are updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances. However, due to the uncertain and complex
application of tax regulations, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of audits may result in liabilities which could be materially different from these estimates. In such an event, Schlumberger will record additional tax expense or tax
benefit in the period in which such resolution occurs.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7                    Pension and Postretirement Benefits             Schlumberger s pension and postretirement benefit obligations are described in detail in
Note 19 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements . The obligations and related costs are calculated using actuarial concepts, which include critical assumptions related to the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and medical cost
trend rates. These assumptions are important elements of expense and/or liability measurement and are updated on an annual basis, or upon the occurrence of significant events.      The discount rate Schlumberger uses reflects the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality debt instruments with maturities matching the
expected timing of the payment of the benefit obligations. The following summarizes the discount rates utilized by Schlumberger for its various pension and postretirement benefit plans:         

The discount rate utilized to determine the liability for Schlumberger s United States pension plans and postretirement medical plans was 6.50% at both
December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007.            

The discount rate utilized to determine expense for Schlumberger s United States pension plans and postretirement medical plans was increased from 6.00% in
2007 to 6.50% in 2008.            
          A higher discount rate decreases the
present value of benefit obligations and decreases expense.      The expected rate of return for our retirement benefit plans represents the
average rate of return expected to be earned on plan assets over the period that benefits included in the benefit obligation, are expected to be paid. The expected rate of return for Schlumberger s United States pension plans has been
determined based upon expectations regarding future rates of return for the investment portfolio, with consideration given to the distribution of investments by asset class and historical rates of return for each individual asset class. The expected
rate of return on plan assets for the United States pension plans was 8.50% in 2008 and 2007. The expected rate of return on plan assets for the international plans was 8.00% in 2008 and 2007. A lower expected rate of return would increase pension
expense.      Schlumberger s medical cost trend rate assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an
assessment of likely long-term trends. The overall medical cost trend rate assumption utilized in both 2008 and 2007 was 9% graded to 6% over the next four years and 5% thereafter.      The following illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions, holding all other assumptions constant, for the United States and
international pension plans:         
       
   32   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7, 7A                   The following illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions,
holding all other assumptions constant, for Schlumberger s United States postretirement medical plans:         
             Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.             Schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates.      As a multinational company, Schlumberger conducts business in approximately 80 countries. Schlumberger s functional currency is primarily the US
dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. Approximately 80% of Schlumberger s revenue in 2008 was denominated in US dollars. However, outside the United States, a significant portion of Schlumberger s expenses is incurred
in foreign currencies. Therefore, when the US dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which Schlumberger conducts business, the US dollar-reported expenses will increase.      A 5% change in the average exchange rates of all the foreign currencies in 2008 would have changed revenue by approximately 1%. If the 2008 average
exchange rates of the US dollar against all foreign currencies had strengthened by 5%, Schlumberger s income from continuing operations would have increased by approximately 2%. Conversely, a 5% weakening of the US dollar average exchange rates
would have decreased income from continuing operations by approximately 3%.      Schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management
strategy that uses derivative instruments to protect its interests from unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. Foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options to provide
a hedge against currency fluctuations either on monetary assets/liabilities denominated in other than a functional currency or on expenses.      At December 31, 2008, contracts were outstanding for the US dollar equivalent of $2.9 billion in various foreign currencies. These contracts mature on various dates in 2009.      Schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. Schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk management strategy
that generally does not involve derivatives and instead primarily uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2008, Schlumberger had
fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $2.2 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $3.1 billion.      Schlumberger s
exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. Both  Short-term investments  and  Fixed income investments ,  held to maturity , which totaled approximately $4.0
billion at December 31, 2008, are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and Eurobonds and are substantially all denominated in US dollars. The average return
on investment was 3.5% in 2008.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 7A                   The following table represents principal amounts of Schlumberger s debt
at December 31, 2008 by year of maturity:         
          The fair market value
of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $2.4 billion as of December 31, 2008. The weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of December 31, 2008 was approximately 4.5%.      Schlumberger does not enter into foreign currency or interest rate derivatives for speculative purposes.              Forward-looking Statements              This Report and other statements we make contain  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the federal securities laws,
which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for Schlumberger as a whole and for each of Oilfield Services and WesternGeco (and for specified products or
geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; operating margins; operating and capital expenditures as well as research   development spending, by Schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the
business strategies of Schlumberger s customers; the Schlumberger effective tax rate; Schlumberger s stock repurchase program; expected pension and post-retirement funding; expected stock compensation costs; exploitation and integration of
technology; and future results of operations. These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to, the current global economic downturn; changes in exploration and production spending by Schlumberger s
customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic and business conditions in key regions of the world; the financial condition of our suppliers and customers in light of current global economic
conditions; operational and project modifications, delays or cancellations; political and economic uncertainty and socio-political unrest; and other risks and uncertainties described elsewhere in this Report, including under  Item 1A. Risk
Factors . If one or more of these risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those forecasted or expected.
Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                      Item 8.    Financial Statements and Supplementary
Data.             SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES            CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME         
          See the  Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements          
   35   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES            CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET         
            See the  Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements          
   36   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES            CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS         

1.    
     
    Includes multiclient seismic data costs      

2.    
     
    Net of the effect of business acquisitions.               See the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          
   37   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES            CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY         
          See
the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          
   38   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES            SHARES OF COMMON STOCK         
          See the  Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements          
   39   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements              1.    Business Description             Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V., incorporated in the Netherlands Antilles) and its
subsidiaries form the world s leading supplier of technology, integrated project management, and information solutions to customers in the oil and gas industry worldwide. Schlumberger consists of two business segments: Oilfield Services
( OFS ) and WesternGeco. The Oilfield Services segment provides the industry s widest range of exploration and production services required during the life of an oil and gas reservoir. WesternGeco provides comprehensive worldwide
reservoir imaging, monitoring, and development services, with extensive seismic crews and data processing centers as well as a large multiclient seismic library. Services range from 3D and time-lapse (4D) seismic surveys to multi-component
surveys for delineating prospects and reservoir management.             2.    Summary of Accounting Policies             The
 Consolidated Financial Statements  of Schlumberger Limited ( Schlumberger ) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.              Principles of Consolidation              The accompanying  Consolidated Financial Statements  include the accounts of
Schlumberger, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and subsidiaries over which it exercises a controlling financial interest. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. Investments in entities in which Schlumberger does
not have a controlling financial interest, but over which it has significant influence are accounted for using the equity method. Schlumberger s share of the after-tax earnings of equity method investees is included in  Interest and other
income . Investments in which Schlumberger does not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method. Both equity and cost method investments are classified in  Investments in Affiliated Companies .
             Reclassifications              Certain items from prior years have been reclassified to conform to the current year
presentation.              Use of Estimates              The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue
and expenses during the reporting period. On an on-going basis, Schlumberger evaluates its estimates, including those related to collectibility of accounts receivable; valuation of inventories and investments; recoverability of goodwill, intangible
assets and investments in affiliates; income taxes; multiclient seismic data; contingencies and actuarial assumptions for employee benefit plans. Schlumberger bases its estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that are
believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these
estimates under different assumptions or conditions.         
   40   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                     Revenue Recognition               Oilfield Services              Services and Products Revenue             Schlumberger recognizes revenue for services and products based upon purchase orders, contracts or other persuasive evidence of an arrangement with the customer that include fixed or determinable prices. Revenue is
recognized for services when they are rendered and collectibility is reasonably assured. Revenue is recognized for products upon delivery, customer acceptance and when collectibility is reasonably assured.             Software Revenue        
     Revenue derived from the sale of licenses of Schlumberger software may include installation, maintenance, consulting and training services.      If services are not essential to the functionality of the software, the revenue for each element of the contract is recognized separately based on its
respective vendor specific objective evidence of fair value when all of the following conditions are met: a signed contract is obtained, delivery has occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectibility is probable.      If an ongoing vendor obligation exists under the license arrangement, or if any uncertainties with regard to customer acceptance are significant, revenue
for the related element is deferred based on its vendor specific objective evidence of fair value. Vendor specific objective evidence of fair value is determined as being the price for the element when sold separately. If vendor specific objective
evidence of fair value does not exist for all undelivered elements, all revenue is deferred until sufficient evidence exists or all elements have been delivered.      The percentage of completion method of accounting is applied to contracts whereby software is being customized to a customer s specifications.             WesternGeco             Revenue from all services is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the price is fixed or determinable and collectibility is reasonably assured.
Revenue from contract services performed on a dayrate basis is recognized as the service is performed. Revenue from other contract services, including pre-funded multiclient surveys, is recognized as the seismic data is acquired and/or processed on
a proportionate basis as work is performed. This method requires revenue to be recognized based upon quantifiable measures of progress, such as square kilometers acquired. Multiclient data surveys are licensed or sold to customers on a
non-transferable basis. Revenue on completed multiclient data surveys is recognized upon obtaining a signed licensing agreement and providing customers with access to such data.             Multiple Deliverable Arrangements             Revenue in both segments may be generated from contractual arrangements that include multiple deliverables. Revenue from these arrangements is recognized as each item is
delivered based on their relative fair value and when the delivered items have stand-alone value to the customer.             Other             Taxes assessed by governmental authorities that are imposed concurrently on specific revenue-producing transaction, such as sales and value added taxes, are excluded from revenue in the  Consolidated Statement of Income.     
     
   41   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                     Translation of Non-United States Currencies              The functional currency of Schlumberger is primarily the US dollar. All assets and
liabilities recorded in functional currencies other than US dollars are translated at current exchange rates. The resulting adjustments are charged or credited directly to the  Stockholders  Equity  section of the  Consolidated Balance
Sheet . Revenue and expenses are translated at the weighted-average exchange rates for the period. All realized and unrealized transaction gains and losses are included in income in the period in which they occur. Transaction gains, net of
hedging activities, of $41 million were recognized in 2008. In 2007 and 2006, the transaction losses net of hedging activities were $17 million and $20 million, respectively.              Investments              The  Consolidated Balance Sheet  reflects the Schlumberger investment portfolio separated between current and long term, based on maturity. Under normal
circumstances it is the intent of Schlumberger to hold the investments until maturity, with the exception of investments that are considered trading (December 31, 2008 $194 million; December 31, 2007 $201 million). Both  Short-term
investments  and  Fixed Income Investments, held to maturity  are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and Eurobonds, and are substantially denominated in
US dollars. They are stated at cost plus accrued interest, which approximates market. Short-term investments that are designated as trading are stated at market. The unrealized gains/losses on investments designated as trading were not significant
at both December 31, 2008 and 2007.      For purposes of the  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows , Schlumberger does not consider
short-term investments to be cash equivalents as a significant portion of them have original maturities in excess of three months.      Long-term fixed income investments of $470 million mature as follows: $140 million in 2010, $202 million in 2011 and $128 million in 2012.              Inventories              Inventories are stated at average cost or at market, whichever is lower. Inventory consists of materials, supplies and finished goods. Costs included in inventories consist of materials, direct labor and manufacturing
overhead.              Fixed Assets and Depreciation              Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation, which is provided for by
charges to income over the estimated useful lives of the assets using the straight-line method. Fixed assets include the manufacturing cost of oilfield technical equipment manufactured or assembled by subsidiaries of Schlumberger. Expenditures for
replacements and improvements are capitalized. Maintenance and repairs are charged to operating expenses as incurred. Upon sale or other disposition, the applicable amounts of asset cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and
the net amount, less proceeds from disposal, is charged or credited to income.              Multiclient Seismic Data              The multiclient library
consists of completed and in-process seismic surveys that are licensed on a nonexclusive basis. This data may be acquired and/or processed by Schlumberger or subcontractors. Multiclient surveys are primarily generated utilizing Schlumberger
resources. Schlumberger capitalizes costs directly incurred in acquiring and processing the multiclient seismic data. Such costs are charged to  Cost of goods sold and services  based on the percentage of the total costs to the estimated total
revenue that  
       
   42   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                  
 Schlumberger expects to receive from the sales of such data. However, under no circumstance will an individual survey carry a net book value greater than a
4- year straight-line amortized value.      The carrying value of the multiclient library is reviewed for impairment annually as well as when an
event or change in circumstance indicating impairment may have occurred. Adjustments to the carrying value are recorded when it is determined that estimated future cash flows, which involves significant judgment on the part of Schlumberger, would
not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of the surveys. Significant adverse changes in Schlumberger s estimated future cash flows could result in impairment charges in a future period.              Goodwill, Other Intangibles and Long-lived Assets              Schlumberger records as goodwill the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the
tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired. Statement of Financial Accounting Standards 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  (SFAS 142), requires goodwill to be tested for impairment annually as well as when an event or change
in circumstance indicates an impairment may have occurred. Goodwill is tested for impairment by comparing the fair value of Schlumberger s individual reporting units to their carrying amount to determine if there is a potential goodwill
impairment. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the implied fair value of the goodwill of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value.      For purposes of performing the impairment test for goodwill as required by SFAS 142, the
Schlumberger reporting units are primarily the geographic areas comprising the Oilfield Services segment in addition to the WesternGeco segment. Schlumberger estimates the fair value of these reporting units using a discounted cash flow analysis
and/or applying various market multiples. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit is a matter of judgment and involves the use of significant estimates and assumptions. Schlumberger s estimates of the fair value of each of its reporting
units were significantly in excess of their respective carrying values for 2008, 2007 and 2006. Schlumberger performs the annual goodwill impairment test of its WesternGeco reporting unit on October 1   st    of every year while the reporting units comprising the Oilfield Services segment are tested as of December 31   st   .      Long-lived assets, including fixed assets and intangible assets, are
reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In reviewing for impairment, the carrying value of such assets is compared to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows
expected from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition. If such cash flows are not sufficient to support the asset s recorded value, an impairment charge is recognized to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset to its
estimated fair value. The determination of future cash flows as well as the estimated fair value of long-lived assets involve significant estimates on the part of management. If there is a material change in economic conditions or other
circumstances influencing the estimate of future cash flows or fair value, Schlumberger could be required to recognize impairment charges in the future.      Schlumberger capitalizes certain costs of internally developed software. Capitalized costs include purchased materials and services, payroll and payroll related costs. The costs of internally developed software are
amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life, which is principally 5 to 7 years. Other intangible assets consist primarily of technology and customer relationships acquired in business combinations. Acquired technology is
generally amortized over periods ranging from 5 to 15 years and acquired customer relationships are generally amortized over periods ranging from 7 years to 20 years.              Taxes on Income              Schlumberger and its subsidiaries compute taxes on income in accordance with the tax rules and regulations of the many taxing authorities where the income is earned. The
income tax rates imposed by these taxing authorities vary substantially. Taxable income may differ from pretax income for financial accounting purposes. To the extent that differences are due to revenue or expense items reported in one period for
tax  
       
   43   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                  
 purposes and in another period for financial accounting purposes, an appropriate provision for deferred income taxes is made. Any effect of changes in income
tax rates or tax laws are included in the provision for income taxes in the period of enactment. When it is more likely than not that a portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized in the future, Schlumberger provides a
corresponding valuation allowance against deferred tax assets.      Schlumberger s tax filings are subject to regular audit by the tax
authorities in most of the jurisdictions in which it conducts business. These audits may result in assessments for additional taxes which are resolved with the authorities or, potentially, through the courts. Tax liabilities are recorded based on
estimates of additional taxes which will be due upon the conclusion of these audits. Estimates of these tax liabilities are made based upon prior experience and are updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances. However, due to the
uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of audits may result in liabilities which could be materially different from these estimates. In such an event, Schlumberger will record additional tax
expense or tax benefit in the year in which such resolution occurs.      Approximately $16 billion of consolidated income retained for use in
the business on December 31, 2008 represented undistributed earnings of consolidated subsidiaries and Schlumberger s share of equity method investees. No provision is made for deferred income taxes on those earnings considered to be
indefinitely reinvested or earnings that would not be taxed when remitted.              Postretirement Benefits              Effective December 31,
2006, Schlumberger adopted the provisions of SFAS 158,  Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106 and 132(R) (  SFAS 158  ) . SFAS 158
required Schlumberger to recognize the funded status (i.e., the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the benefit obligation) of its postretirement benefit plans in its  Consolidated Balance Sheet , with a corresponding
adjustment to  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss), net of tax.               Concentration of Credit Risk              Schlumberger s
assets that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash, short-term investments, fixed income investments held to maturity, receivables from clients and derivative financial instruments. Schlumberger places its cash,
short-term investments and fixed income investments held to maturity with financial institutions and corporations, and limits the amount of credit exposure with any one of them. Schlumberger regularly evaluates the creditworthiness of the issuers in
which it invests. The receivables from clients are spread over many countries and customers. Schlumberger maintains an allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable based on expected collectibility and performs ongoing credit evaluations of its
customers  financial condition. By using derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to changes in exchange rates and, commodity prices, Schlumberger exposes itself to credit risk. Schlumberger minimizes this credit risk by entering into
transactions with high-quality counterparties, limiting the exposure to each counterparty and monitoring the financial condition of its counterparties.              Research   Engineering              All research and engineering expenditures are expensed as incurred, including costs relating to patents or rights that may result from such expenditures.              Earnings per Share              Basic earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year.
Diluted earnings per share is calculated by first adding back to net income  
       
   44   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                  
 the interest expense on the convertible debentures and then dividing this adjusted net income by the sum of (i) unvested restricted stock units; and
(ii) the weighted average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution. The weighted average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution assumes (a) that all stock options which are in the money are exercised at the
beginning of the period and that the proceeds are used by Schlumberger to purchase shares at the average market price for the period, and (b) the conversion of the convertible debentures.      The following is a reconciliation from basic earnings per share to diluted earnings per share from continuing operations for each of the last three years:
        
          Employee stock options to purchase
approximately 5.8 million, 0.8 million and 0.6 million shares of common stock at December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, were outstanding but not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the
option exercise price was greater than the average market price of the common stock, and therefore, the effect on diluted earnings per share would have been anti-dilutive.       
       Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements              In December 2007, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued SFAS 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  ( SFAS 141(R) ). SFAS
141(R) establishes principles and requirements for how an acquirer in a business combination recognizes and measures the assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest (previously referred to as minority interest) in the
acquiree. The provisions of SFAS 141(R) are effective for business combinations occurring on or after January 1, 2009.      In December
2007, the FASB issued SFAS 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements ,  an Amendment of ARB No. 51  ( SFAS 160 ) .  This statement amends ARB 51 to establish accounting and reporting
standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the loss of control of  
       
   45   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                  
 a subsidiary. Upon its adoption on January 1, 2009, noncontrolling interests will be classified as equity in the Schlumberger financial statements.
     SFAS 160 also changes the way the consolidated income statement is presented by requiring net income to include the net income for both the
parent and the noncontrolling interest, with disclosure of both amounts on the consolidated statement of income. The calculation of earnings per share will continue to be based on income amounts attributable to the parent. The provisions of this
standard must be applied retrospectively upon adoption.             3.    Charges and Credits             Schlumberger
recorded the following Charges and Credits in 2008, 2007 and 2006:             2008
            Fourth quarter 2008:         

Due to the continuing slowdown in oil and gas exploration and production spending and its effect on activity in the oilfield services sector, Schlumberger is taking
actions to reduce its global workforce. As a result of these actions, Schlumberger recorded a pretax charge of $74 million ($65 million after-tax), which is classified in  Cost of goods sold and services  in the  Consolidated Statement of
Income . Depending on how the market situation evolves, further actions may be necessary, which could result in additional charges in future periods.          

Schlumberger wrote off certain assets, primarily accounts receivable relating to one client with liquidity issues. Accordingly, Schlumberger recorded a pretax
charge of $42 million ($28 million after-tax and minority interest). $32 million of the pretax charge is classified in  Cost of goods sold and services  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income , with the remaining $10 million classified
in  Interest and other income, net .               The following is a
summary of 2008 Charges and Credits:         
           2007             Fourth quarter of 2007:         

Schlumberger sold certain workover rigs for $32 million, resulting in a pretax gain of $25 million ($17 million after-tax) which is classified in  Interest and
other income, net  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income .                2006             Second quarter of 2006:         

As discussed in further detail in Note 4  Acquisitions , Schlumberger acquired the remaining 30% minority interest in WesternGeco held by Baker Hughes
Incorporated for $2.4 billion in cash during  
          
   46   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                

the second quarter of 2006. In connection with this transaction, a pretax and after-tax charge of $21 million was recorded, representing the portion of the
purchase price that was allocated to in-process research and development. Schlumberger recorded an additional $6 million of in-process research and development charges, primarily related to a small acquisition which was also completed in the second
quarter of 2006. These amounts were determined by identifying research and development projects that had not yet reached technological feasibility at the time of the acquisition. These charges are classified in  Research   engineering 
in the  Consolidated Statement of Income.             

Schlumberger recorded a pretax and after-tax loss of $9 million relating to the liquidation of certain investments in connection with the funding of the previously
mentioned WesternGeco transaction. These losses are classified in  Interest and other income, net  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income.           

In connection with the settlement of a visa matter, a pretax charge of $10 million ($7 million after-tax and minority interest) was recorded in the second quarter
of 2006 and is classified in  Cost of goods sold and services  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income .               The following is a summary of 2006 Charges and Credits:         
           4.    Acquisitions  
             Acquisition of Eastern Echo Holding Plc              On December 10, 2007, Schlumberger completed the acquisition of Eastern Echo Holding
Plc ( Eastern Echo ) for $838 million in cash. Eastern Echo was a Dubai-based marine seismic company that did not have any operations at the time of acquisition, but had signed contracts for the construction of six seismic vessels.
     The purchase price has been allocated to the net assets acquired based upon their estimated fair values as follows:         

(Stated in millions)   

Cash and short-term investments   
      
  $  
  266  

Other current assets   

23  

Fixed income investments, held to maturity   

54  

Vessels under construction   

694  

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities   

(17  
  )   
 
    Long-term debt   

(182  
  )   

Total purchase price   
      
  $  
  838  

47   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                     Acquisition of WesternGeco Minority Interest              On April 28, 2006, Schlumberger acquired the remaining 30% minority interest in
WesternGeco from Baker Hughes Incorporated for $2.4 billion in cash. Schlumberger also incurred direct acquisition costs of $6 million in connection with this transaction. As a result of this transaction, Schlumberger owns 100% of WesternGeco.
     The purchase price has been allocated to the proportionate share of net assets acquired based upon their estimated fair values as follows:
        
          The amount allocated to goodwill
represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired. Approximately $0.8 billion of the $1.3 billion of goodwill is tax deductible. In addition, approximately $650 million of the goodwill created as a result of
this transaction has been allocated to the Oilfield Services business segment in recognition of the estimated present value of future synergies paid for in this transaction that will directly benefit that segment.              Acquisition of PetroAlliance Minority Interest              On December 9, 2003, Schlumberger announced that it had signed an agreement to acquire
PetroAlliance Services Company Limited ( PetroAlliance Services ) over a 3-year period based on a formula determined at that time. During the second quarter of 2006, Schlumberger acquired the remaining 49% of PetroAlliance Services that it
did not own for $165 million in cash and 4,730,960 shares of Schlumberger common stock valued at approximately $330 million. This brought the aggregate purchase price paid for PetroAlliance Services over the 3-year period to $650 million.
     The $495 million purchase price paid in the second quarter of 2006 has been allocated to the proportionate share of net assets acquired
based upon their estimated fair values as follows:         

(Stated in millions)   

Book value of minority interest acquired   
      
  $  
  33  

Fair value adjustments:    

Customer relationships (life of 12 years)   

69  

Other identifiable intangible assets (life of 5 years)   

7  

Deferred income taxes   

(18  
  )   
 
    Goodwill   

404  

Total purchase price   
      
  $  
  495  

The amount allocated to goodwill
represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired. The goodwill is not tax deductible.         
   48   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                     Other Acquisitions              Schlumberger has made other acquisitions and minority interest investments, none of which were significant on an individual basis, for cash
payments of $345 million during 2008, $306 million during 2007, and $356 million during 2006.      Under the terms of certain acquisitions,
Schlumberger has obligations to pay additional consideration if specific conditions were met. Schlumberger made cash payments of $63 million during 2006 with respect to certain transactions that were consummated in prior years, which were recorded
as additional goodwill.      Pro forma results pertaining to the above acquisitions, including the WesternGeco and PetroAlliance Services
transactions, are not presented as the impact was not significant.             5.    Investments in Affiliated Companies             The MI-SWACO drilling fluids joint venture is owned 40% by Schlumberger and 60% by Smith International, Inc. Schlumberger records income relating to this venture using the equity method of accounting. Schlumberger s investment in the
joint venture on December 31, 2008 and 2007 was $1.3 billion and $1.2 billion, respectively. Schlumberger s equity income from this joint venture in 2008 was $210 million, $174 million in 2007 and $135 million in 2006. Schlumberger
received cash distributions from the joint venture of $57 million in 2008 and $40 million in 2007. There were no such distributions in 2006.      Schlumberger s joint venture agreement with Smith International, Inc. contains a provision under which either party to the joint venture may offer to sell its entire interest in the venture to the other party at a cash purchase price
per percentage interest specified in an offer notice. If the offer to sell is not accepted, the offering party will be obligated to purchase the entire interest of the other party at the same price per percentage interest as the prices
specified in the offer notice.             6.    Inventory             A summary of inventory follows:         
           7.    Fixed Assets  
           A summary of fixed assets follows:         
       
   49   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   The estimated useful lives of Buildings   improvements are primarily
30 to 40 years. The estimated useful lives of Machinery   equipment range from 2 years to 10 years, with 90% being depreciated over 5 to 10 years (determined on a gross book value basis). Seismic vessels are depreciated over periods ranging
from 20 to 30 years with the related equipment generally depreciated over 5 years.      Depreciation and amortization expense relating to fixed
assets was $1.9 billion, $1.5 billion and $1.2 billion in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.             8.    Multiclient Seismic Data             The change
in the carrying amount of multiclient seismic data is as follows:         
           9.    Goodwill
            The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by business segment in
2008 were as follows:         
          The changes in the
carrying amount of goodwill by business segment in 2007 were as follows:         
           10.    Intangible Assets
            Intangible assets principally comprise software, technology and customer
relationships. At December 31, the gross book value and accumulated amortization of intangible assets were as follows:         
       
   50   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   Amortization expense was $124 million in 2008, $124 million in 2007 and $113
million in 2006.      The weighted average amortization period for all intangible assets is approximately 12 years.      Amortization expense for the subsequent five years is estimated to be as follows: 2009   $113 million, 2010   $100 million,
2011   $91 million, 2012   $85 million and 2013   $66 million.             11.    Long-term Debt and Debt Facility Agreements              Series A Convertible Debentures             During 2003, Schlumberger
Limited issued $975 million aggregate principal amount of 1.5% Series A Convertible Debentures due June 1, 2023. The Series A debentures were convertible, at the holders  option, into shares of common stock of Schlumberger Limited at a
conversion rate of 27.651 shares for each $1,000 of principal amount (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $36.165 per share).      During 2007, $622 million of the Series A debentures were converted into 17.2 million shares of Schlumberger common stock. During 2008, all of the remaining $353 million of outstanding Series A debentures were converted into
9.8 million shares of Schlumberger common stock.             Series B Convertible Debentures
            During 2003, Schlumberger Limited issued $450 million aggregate principal
amount of 2.125% Series B Convertible Debentures due June 1, 2023. The Series B debentures are convertible, at the holders  option, into shares of common stock of Schlumberger Limited. Holders of the Series B debentures may convert their
debentures into common stock at a conversion rate of 25.000 shares for each $1,000 of principal (equivalent to an initial conversion price of $40.00 per share). The conversion rate may be adjusted for certain events, but it will not be adjusted for
accrued interest.      On or after June 6, 2010, Schlumberger may redeem for cash all or part of the debentures, upon notice to the
holders, at the redemption prices of 100% of the principal amount of the debentures, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of redemption. On June 1, 2010, June 1, 2013 and June 1, 2018, holders may require Schlumberger to
repurchase their Series B debentures. The repurchase price will be 100% of the principal amount of the debentures plus accrued and unpaid interest to the repurchase date. The repurchase price for repurchases on June 1, 2010 will be paid in
cash. On the other repurchase dates, Schlumberger may choose to pay the repurchase price in cash or common stock or any combination of cash and common stock. In addition, upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change (defined as a change in control or
a termination of trading of Schlumberger s common stock), holders may require Schlumberger to repurchase all or a portion of their debentures for an amount equal to 100% of the principal amount of the debentures plus accrued and unpaid interest
to the repurchase date. The repurchase price may be paid in cash, Schlumberger common stock (or if Schlumberger is not the surviving entity in a merger, the securities of the surviving entity) or a combination of cash and the applicable
securities, at Schlumberger s option. The applicable securities will be valued at 99% of their market price.     Schlumberger s
option to pay the repurchase price with securities is subject to certain conditions. The debentures will mature on June 1, 2023 unless earlier redeemed or repurchased.      During 2008 and 2007, $95 million and $34 million of the Series B debentures were converted into 2.4 million and 0.9 million shares of
Schlumberger common stock, respectively.      At December 31, 2008, there were $321 million of the Series B debentures outstanding. The
fair value of the Series B debentures at December 31, 2008 was $398 million.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                    Other Long-Term Debt             A summary of other long-term debt by currency, analyzed by Bonds and Notes, Commercial Paper (CP) and Other, at December 31 follows. As
described in further detail below, the currencies are presented after taking into account currency swaps entered into on the date of issuance until maturity.         
          Bonds and Notes
consist of the following at December 31,         
          The fair value of the
$647 million of Schlumberger Technology Corporation 6.5% Notes due 2012 was $651 million at December 31, 2008.      In September 2008,
Schlumberger Finance B.V. issued  500 million 5.25% Guaranteed Notes due 2013. Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these Euro notes for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this a US dollar
denominated debt on which Schlumberger Finance B.V. will pay interest in US dollars at a rate of 4.74%. The fair value of these Notes was $731 million at December 31, 2008.      The fair value of the $355 million of Schlumberger SA euro denominated 5.875% Guaranteed Bonds due 2011 was $390 million at December 31, 2008.
     The fair value of the $203 million of Schlumberger Canada Limited 5.14% Guaranteed Notes due 2010, which are Canadian dollar denominated,
was $209 million at December 31, 2008.      In September 2006, Schlumberger Finance B.V. issued  400 million Guaranteed Floating
Rate Notes due 2009. At December 31, 2008 these Notes are classified within  Long-term debt   current portion  in the  Consolidated Balance Sheet .      In connection with the Eastern Echo acquisition (see Note 4,  Acquisitions ), Schlumberger assumed 10.875% Senior Secured Bonds due May 2012 with par value of $160 million. The fair value of these bonds at the
time of the acquisition was approximately $182 million. These bonds were redeemed by Schlumberger during the second quarter of 2008.      Commercial paper borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2008 and 2007 include certain notes issued in currencies other than the US dollar which were swapped for US dollars and pounds sterling on the date of issue until maturity.
Commercial paper borrowings are classified as long-term debt to the extent of their backup by available and unused committed credit facilities maturing in more than one year and to the extent it is Schlumberger s intent to maintain these
obligations for longer than one year.         
   52   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   On December 31, 2008, wholly-owned subsidiaries of Schlumberger had
separate committed debt facility agreements aggregating $3.9 billion with commercial banks, of which $1.8 billion was available and unused. This included $2.5 billion of committed facilities which support commercial paper programs in the United
States and Europe, and mature in April 2012. Interest rates and other terms of borrowing under these lines of credit vary from country to country. Borrowings under the commercial paper programs at December 31, 2008 were $1.1 billion, of which
$0.4 billion was classified within  Long-term debt   current portion  in the  Consolidated Balance Sheet  due to Schlumberger s current intent to repay such amount in 2009.      The weighted average interest rate on variable rate debt as of December 31, 2008 was 4.5%.       Other Long-term Debt  as of December 31, 2008, which excludes the Series B debentures, is due as follows: $447 million in 2010, $777 million in
2011, $1.418 billion in 2012 and $730 million in 2013.             12.    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities             Schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and interest rates. To mitigate these risks, Schlumberger utilizes derivative instruments.
Schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes.             Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk             As a multinational
company, Schlumberger conducts its business in approximately 80 countries. Schlumberger s functional currency is primarily the US dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. Approximately 80% of Schlumberger s revenue in
2008 was denominated in US dollars. However, outside the United States, a significant portion of Schlumberger s expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. Therefore, when the US dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the
countries in which Schlumberger conducts business, the US dollar   reported expenses will increase.      Schlumberger is exposed to risks
on future cash flows to the extent that local currency expenses exceed revenues denominated in local currency that are other than the functional currency. Schlumberger uses foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options to provide a
hedge against a portion of these cash flow risks. These contracts are accounted for as cash flow hedges under the provisions of SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities  (SFAS No. 133), with the
effective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedge recorded on the  Consolidated Balance Sheet  and in  Other Comprehensive Income (Loss).  Amounts recorded in  Other Comprehensive Income (Loss)  are reclassified into
earnings in the same period or periods that the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedged item is recorded directly to earnings.      At December 31, 2008, Schlumberger recognized a cumulative net $104 million loss in  Stockholders  Equity  relating to revaluation of
foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options designated as cash flow hedges at December 31, 2008.      Schlumberger is
also exposed to changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities which are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. Schlumberger uses foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options to hedge this exposure as
it relates to certain currencies. These contracts are accounted for as fair value hedges under the provisions of SFAS No. 133, with the fair value of the contracts recorded on the  Consolidated Balance Sheet  and changes in the fair value
recognized in the  Consolidated Statement of Income  along with the change in fair value of the hedged item.      At December 31,
2008, contracts were outstanding for the US dollar equivalent of $4.3 billion in various foreign currencies, the majority of which expire on various dates in 2009.             Commodity Price Risk             Schlumberger is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price of commodities, such as copper and lead. Schlumberger has entered into forward contracts on
these commodities to manage the price risk  
       
   53   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                  
 associated with forecasted purchases. The objective of these contracts is to reduce the variability of cash flows associated with the forecasted purchase of
those commodities These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment under the provisions of SFAS No. 133 and therefore, changes in the fair value of the forward contracts are recorded directly to earnings.             Interest Rate Risk             Schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. Schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk
management strategy that generally does not involve derivatives and instead primarily uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2008,
Schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $2.2 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $3.1 billion.      Schlumberger s exposure to interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. Both  Short-term investments  and  Fixed income investments ,  held to maturity , which
totaled approximately $4.0 billion at December 31, 2008, are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and Eurobonds and are substantially all denominated in US
dollars.      The following tables detail the effect of derivatives on the financial position and performance of Schlumberger:              Fair Values of Derivative Instruments                 

(Stated in millions)    
 
   As at December 31,   
      
   Fair Value      

Asset Derivatives     
      
   Liability Derivatives      
 
   Derivatives designated as hedging instruments under SFAS No. 133   
      
   2008   
      
   2008    

Foreign exchange contracts   
      
  $  

$  
  102   

Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under SFAS No. 133   

Commodity contracts   
      
  $  

$  
  5   

Total derivatives   
      
  $  

$  
  107   

The fair value of all
outstanding derivatives are determined using a model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be derived from or corroborated by observable data, and are included in Accounts payable and accrued liabilities on the Consolidated Balance
Sheet.              The effect of Derivative Instruments on the Consolidated Statement of
Income           

(Stated in millions)   

For the year ended December 31,   

Derivatives in SFAS No. 133 Fair Value Hedging Relationships   
      
   Location of Gain or (Loss) recognized   
      
   Gain (Loss) 2008   

Foreign exchange contracts   
      
  Cost of goods sold and services  
      
  $  
  (122  
  )   

54   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                

Derivatives in SFAS No. 133 Cash Flow Hedging Relationships   
      
   Gain or (Loss) recognized in OCI on Derivatives 2008   

Location of Gain or (Loss) reclassified from Accumulated OCI into Income   
      
     Gain (Loss) reclassified from Accumulated OCI into Income       2008    

Foreign exchange contracts   
      
  $  
  (149  
  )  
      
  Cost of goods sold and services  
      
  $  
  (19  
  )   

Research   engineering  

5  

$  
  (14  
  )   

Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments under SFAS 133   
      
   Gain (Loss) recognized in Income on Derivatives   
      
   Gain (Loss) recognized in Income on Derivatives 2008   

Foreign exchange contracts   
      
  Cost of goods sold and services  
      
  $  
  (11  
  )   
 
    Commodity contracts   
      
  Cost of goods sold and services  

(6  
  )   

$  
  (17  
  )   

13.    Capital Stock  
           Schlumberger is authorized to issue 3,000,000,000 shares of common stock, par
value $0.01 per share, of which 1,194,100,845 and 1,195,616,324 shares were outstanding on December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Schlumberger is also authorized to issue 200,000,000 shares of preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share,
which may be issued in series with terms and conditions determined by the Board of Directors. No shares of preferred stock have been issued. Holders of common stock are entitled to one vote for each share of stock held.             14.    Stock Compensation Plans             Schlumberger has three types of stock-based compensation programs: stock options, a
restricted stock and restricted stock unit program (collectively referred to as  restricted stock ) and a discounted stock purchase plan ( DSPP ).              Stock Options              Key employees are granted stock options under Schlumberger stock option plans. For all of the stock options granted, the exercise price of each option equals the average
of the high and low sales prices of Schlumberger stock on the date of grant; an option s maximum term is generally ten years, and options generally vest in increments over four or five years. The gain on the awards granted during the period
from July 2003 to January 2006 is capped at 125% of the exercise price. Awards granted subsequent to January 2006 do not have a cap on any potential gain and generally vest in increments over five years.      The fair value of each stock option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions and resulting weighted-average fair value per share:         
       
   55   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   The following table summarizes information concerning outstanding and
exercisable options by five ranges of exercise prices as of December 31, 2008:         
          The weighted average
remaining contractual life of stock options exercisable as of December 31, 2008 was 4.32 years.      The following table summarizes stock
option activity during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006:         
          The aggregate
intrinsic value of stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $175 million. The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercisable as of December 31, 2008 was approximately $161 million.      The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, was approximately $119 million, $607 million
and $366 million, respectively.              Restricted Stock              Schlumberger began granting restricted stock in 2006. Executive officers of Schlumberger may
not receive grants of restricted stock unless the grants are subject to performance-based vesting. Restricted stock awards generally vest at the end of three years, with the exception of certain grants which vest over a two-year period with a
two-year holding period. There have not been any grants to date that are subject to performance-based vesting.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   The following table summarizes information about restricted stock
transactions:         
            Discounted Stock Purchase Plan   
           Under the terms of the DSPP, employees can choose to have a portion of their
earnings withheld, subject to certain restrictions, to purchase Schlumberger common stock. The purchase price of the stock is 92.5% of the lower of the stock price at the beginning or end of the plan period at six-month intervals.      The fair value of the employees  purchase rights under the DSPP was estimated using the Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions and
resulting weighted average fair value per share:         
            Total Stock-based Compensation Expense
             The following summarizes stock-based
compensation expense recognized in income:         
          As of
December 31, 2008, there was $305 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested stock-based compensation arrangements. Approximately $128 million is expected to be recognized in 2009, $80 million is expected to be
recognized in 2010, $62 million in 2011, $32 million in 2012 and $3 million in 2013.             15.    Income Tax Expense             Schlumberger
and its subsidiaries operate in more than 100 taxing jurisdictions where statutory tax rates generally vary from 0% to 50%.         
   57   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   Pretax book income subject to United States and non-United States income
taxes for each of the three years ended December 31, was as follows:         
          The components of net
deferred tax assets were as follows:         
          The above deferred
tax assets at December 31, 2008 and 2007 are net of valuation allowances relating to net operating losses in certain countries of $197 million and $214 million, respectively. The deferred tax assets are also net of valuation allowances relating
to a capital loss carryforward of $140 million at December 31, 2008 ($144 million at December 31, 2007) which $124 million expires in 2009 and $16 million expires in 2010, and a foreign tax credit carryforward of $49 million at
December 31, 2008 ($55 million at December 31, 2007) of which $2 million expires in 2009, and $47 million expires in years 2010 through 2012.      The components of consolidated income tax expense were as follows:         
          A reconciliation of
the United States statutory federal tax rate (35%) to the consolidated effective tax rate is:         
       
   58   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   Schlumberger adopted the provisions of FASB Interpretation No. 48,
 Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes   an Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ) on January 1, 2007. This interpretation clarifies the accounting for uncertain tax positions and requires companies
to recognize the impact of a tax position in their financial statements, if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. The adoption of FIN 48 did not have any impact on the total
liabilities or stockholders  equity of Schlumberger.      A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of liabilities associated
with uncertain tax positions for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 is as follows:         
          Included in the
Schlumberger  Consolidated Balance Sheet  at December 31, 2008 is approximately $877 million of liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions in the over 100 jurisdictions in which Schlumberger conducts business, a number of which
have tax laws that are not fully defined and are evolving. This amount excludes $136 million of accrued interest and penalties. All of the unrecognized tax benefits, if recognized, would impact the Schlumberger effective tax rate.      Schlumberger classifies interest and penalties relating to uncertain tax positions within  Taxes on income  in the  Consolidated Statement of
Income . During 2008 and 2007, Schlumberger recognized approximately $25 million and $36 million in interest and penalties, respectively.      The following table summarizes the tax years that are either currently under audit or remain open and subject to examination by the tax authorities in the most significant jurisdictions in which Schlumberger operates:         
          In certain of the
jurisdictions noted above, Schlumberger operates through more than one legal entity, each of which has different open years subject to examination. The table above presents the open years subject to examination for the most material of the legal
entities in each jurisdiction. Additionally, it is important to note that tax years are technically not closed until the statute of limitations in each jurisdiction expires. In the jurisdictions noted above, the statute of limitations can extend
beyond the open years subject to examination.      Due to the geographic breadth of the Schlumberger operations, numerous tax audits may be
ongoing throughout the world at any point in time. Tax liabilities are recorded based on estimates of additional taxes which will be due upon the conclusion of these audits. Estimates of these tax liabilities are made based upon prior experience and
are updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances. However, due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of audits may result in liabilities which could be materially different
from these estimates. In such an event, Schlumberger will record additional tax expense or tax benefit in the period in which such resolution occurs.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                    16.    Leases and Lease Commitments             Total rental expense was $1.1 billion in 2008, $913 million in 2007, and $686 million in
2006. Future minimum rental commitments under noncancelable operating leases for each of the next five years are as follows:         
           17.    Contingencies  
           In July 2007, Schlumberger received an inquiry from the United States
Department of Justice ( DOJ ) related to the DOJ s investigation of whether certain freight forwarding and customs clearance services of Panalpina, Inc., and other companies provided to oil and oilfield service companies, including
Schlumberger, violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Schlumberger is cooperating with the DOJ and is conducting its own investigation with respect to these services.      Schlumberger and its subsidiaries are party to various legal proceedings from time to time. A liability is accrued when a loss is both probable and can be reasonably estimated. At this time the ultimate disposition of
these proceedings is not determinable and therefore, it is not possible to estimate the amount of loss or range of possible losses that might result from an adverse judgment or settlement in any of these matters. However, in the opinion of
management, any liability that might ensue would not be material in relation to Schlumberger s consolidated liquidity, financial position or future results of operations.             18.    Segment Information             Schlumberger operates two business segments: Oilfield Services and WesternGeco.      The Oilfield Services segment falls into four clearly defined economic and geographical areas and is evaluated on the following basis: North America is a
major self-contained market; Latin America comprises regional markets that share a common dependence on the oil and gas industry; Europe is a major self-contained market that includes the CIS and Africa, whose economy is increasingly linked to that
of Europe; Middle East   Asia includes the remainder of the Eastern Hemisphere, which consists of many countries at different stages of economic development that share a common dependence on the oil and gas industry. The Oilfield Services
segment provides virtually all exploration and production services required during the life of an oil and gas reservoir.      The WesternGeco
segment provides comprehensive worldwide reservoir imaging, monitoring, and development services, with extensive seismic crews and data processing centers, as well as a large multiclient seismic library. Services range from 3D and time-lapse
(4D) seismic surveys to multi-component surveys for delineating prospects and reservoir management.         
   60   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   Financial information for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and
2006, by segment, is as follows:         
       
   61   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                
          Oilfield Services
Elims/Other include certain headquarters administrative costs which are not allocated geographically, manufacturing and certain other operations, and costs maintained at the Oilfield Services level.      Corporate items, which are not included in the segments  income, principally comprise nonoperating expenses, such as interest on postretirement
medical benefits, stock-based compensation costs and corporate expenses. Corporate assets largely comprise short-term investments and fixed income investments, held to maturity.      During the three years ended December 31, 2008, no single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue.      Schlumberger did not have revenue from third-party customers in its country of domicile during the last three years. Revenue in the United States in 2008,
2007 and 2006 was $5.9 billion, $5.6 billion and $5.2 billion, respectively.      Interest income excludes amounts which are included in the
segments  income (2008   $7 million: 2007   $2 million; 2006   $2 million).      Interest expense excludes amounts which are
included in the segments  income (2008   $30 million; 2007   $7 million; 2006   $6 million).      Depreciation  
Amortization includes Multiclient seismic data costs.      Effective January 1, 2008, a component of the Middle East   Asia Area
was reallocated to the Europe/CIS/Africa Area. Prior period data has been reclassified to conform to the current organizational structure.             19.    Pension and Other Benefit Plans               Pension Plans              Schlumberger and its United States subsidiary sponsor several defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all U.S. employees hired prior to October 1, 2004. The benefits are based on years of service
and compensation, on a career-average pay basis.         
   62   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   In addition to the United States defined benefit pension plans, Schlumberger
sponsors several other international defined benefit pension plans. The most significant of these international plans are the International Staff Pension Plan, which was converted from a defined contribution plan to a defined benefit pension plan
during the fourth quarter of 2008, and the UK pension plan (collectively, the  International plans ). The International Staff Pension Plan covers certain international employees and is based on years of service and compensation on a
career-average pay basis. The UK plan covers employees hired prior to April 1, 1999, and is based on years of service and compensation, on a final salary basis.      The weighted-average assumed discount rate, compensation increases and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used to determine the net pension cost for the US and International ( Int l )
plans were as follows:         
          Net pension cost for
2008, 2007 and 2006 included the following components:         
          As the International
Staff Pension Plan was converted to a defined benefit pension plan during the fourth quarter of 2008, the net pension cost included above for this pension plan was not significant in 2008.      The weighted-average assumed discount rate and compensation increases used to determine the projected benefit obligations for the US and International
plans were as follows:         
             
   63   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   The changes in the projected benefit obligation, plan assets and funded
status of the plans were as follows:         
          The
underfunded/overfunded position represents the difference between the plan assets and the projected benefit obligation ( PBO ). The PBO represents the actuarial present value of benefits based on employee service and compensation and
includes an assumption about future compensation levels.      The amounts recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the Schlumberger
defined benefit pension plans are as follows:               
          The following is a
weighted-average breakdown of the plans assets:               
             
   64   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   The following is the weighted-average target allocation of the defined
benefit pension plans  assets:         
          The asset allocation
objectives are to diversify the portfolio among several asset classes to reduce volatility while maintaining an asset mix that provides the highest expected rate of return consistent with an acceptable level of risk. There is no investment of any
plan assets in Schlumberger common stock. Schlumberger s asset allocation strategy is reviewed at least annually. Other investments above consist primarily of alternative investments such as real estate and private equity.      The expected long-term rate of return on assets assumptions reflect the average rate of earnings expected on funds invested or to be invested. The
assumptions have been determined by reflecting expectations regarding future rates of return for the portfolio considering the asset distribution and related historical rates of return. The appropriateness of the assumptions is reviewed annually.
     The funding policy is to annually contribute amounts that are based upon a number of factors including the actuarial accrued liability,
amounts that are deductible for income tax purposes, legal funding requirements and available cash flow. Schlumberger currently anticipates contributing approximately $400 million to $500 million to its defined benefit pension plans in 2009, subject
to market and business conditions.              Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions
             Schlumberger and its United States subsidiary provide certain health
care benefits to former US employees who have retired.      The actuarial assumptions used to measure net periodic benefit costs were a discount
rate of 6.50% in 2008, 6.00% in 2007 and 5.75% in 2006. The overall medical cost trend rate assumption is 9% graded to 6% over the next four years and 5% thereafter.      The net periodic benefit cost for the US postretirement medical plan included the following components:         
             
   65   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   The changes in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation, plan assets
and funded status were as follows:         
          The underfunded
position is included in  Postretirement Benefits  in the  Consolidated Balance Sheet .      The assumed discount rate used to
determine the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation was 6.50% for 2008 and 6.50% for 2007.      The overall medical cost trend rate
assumption used to determine the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for both 2008 and 2007 was 9% graded to 6% over the next four years and 5% thereafter.      Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the U.S. postretirement medical plan. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the
following effects:         

(Stated in millions)   

One percentage   
      
   One percentage   

Effect on total service and interest cost components   
      
  $  
  13  
      
  $  
  (11  
  )   
 
    Effect on accumulated postretirment benefit obligation   
      
  $  
  127  
      
  $  
  (109  
  )   
            Other Information              The expected benefits to be paid under the US and International pension plans as well as the
postretirement medical plan (which is disclosed net of the annual Medicare Part D subsidy, which ranges from $3 million to $6 million per year) were as follows:         

          Included in
 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  at December 31, 2008 are the following non-cash pretax charges which have not yet been recognized in net periodic pension cost. Also presented is the estimated portion of each component of
 Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income  which is expected to be recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost during the year-ending December 31, 2009.       
  
   66   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                
          In addition to
providing defined pension benefits and a postretirement medical plan, Schlumberger and its subsidiaries have other deferred benefit programs, primarily profit sharing and defined contribution pension plans. Expenses for these programs were $482
million, $408 million and $351 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively.             20.    Supplementary Information             Cash
paid for interest and income taxes was as follows:         
           Accounts payable
and accrued liabilities  are summarized as follows:         
           Interest and other
income, net  includes the following:         
           Allowance for
doubtful accounts  is as follows:         
            Discontinued Operations
             During 2008, Schlumberger recorded an after-tax gain of $38 million
related to the resolution of a contingency associated with a previously disposed of business. This gain is included in  Income from Discontinued Operations  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income .         
   67   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                    Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting             The management of Schlumberger Limited is responsible for establishing and maintaining
adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rule 13a 15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Schlumberger Limited s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      Schlumberger Limited management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008. In making this
assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control Integrated Framework . Based on our assessment we have concluded that, as of December 31,
2008, our internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.      The effectiveness of Schlumberger Limited s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm             To the Board of Directors and Stockholders      of Schlumberger Limited            In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheet and the related consolidated statements of income, of stockholders  equity and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Schlumberger Limited and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008 in conformity with
accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria
established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining
effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting appearing on page 68 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with
the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      As discussed in Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for uncertainty in income taxes on January 1, 2007. Additionally, as discussed in Note 2 to the
consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its method of accounting for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans on December 31, 2006.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable
detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding
prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.       
  
   69   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8                   Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial
reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance
with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.         

/s/    P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP   
 
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   
 
    Houston, Texas     February 11,
2009    
       
   70   

Table of Contents  

   Part II, Item 8, 9, 9A, 9B                     Quarterly Results        (UNAUDITED)            The following table summarizes Schlumberger s results for each of the four quarters for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007.         

1.  
     
  Gross margin equals  Revenue  less  Cost of goods sold   services .     

2.  
     
  Due to rounding, the addition of net income and earnings per share by quarter may not equal the total for the year.     

*  
     
  Mark of Schlumberger                 Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.             None.               Item 9A.    Controls and Procedures.             Schlumberger has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of Schlumberger s management, including the
Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) and the Chief Financial Officer ( CFO ), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of Schlumberger s disclosure controls and procedures. Based upon Schlumberger s evaluation, the
CEO and the CFO have concluded that, as of December 31, 2008, the disclosure controls and procedures were effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports Schlumberger files and submits under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules and forms.      There has been no change in Schlumberger s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2008
that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Schlumberger s internal control over financial reporting.      See page 66 of this Report for Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.               Item 9B.    Other Information.             None.         
   71   

Table of Contents  

   Part III, Item 10, 11, 12          
          PART III               Item 10.    Directors, Executive Officers and
Corporate Governance of Schlumberger.             See  Item 4. Submission of
Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   Executive Officers of Schlumberger  of this Report for Item 10 information regarding executive officers of Schlumberger. The information under the captions  Election of Directors, 
 Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,   Corporate Governance   Director Nominations  and  Corporate Governance   Board Committees   Audit Committee  in Schlumberger s Proxy
Statement to be filed with the SEC with respect to the 2009 Annual General Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.      Schlumberger has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to all of it directors, officers and employees, including its principal executive, financial and accounting officers, or persons performing similar functions. Schlumberger s Code
of Ethics is posted on its corporate governance website located at  www.slb.com/ir . In addition, amendments to the Code of Ethics and any grant of a waiver from a provision of the Code of Ethics requiring disclosure under applicable SEC rules
will be disclosed on Schlumberger s corporate governance website located at  www.slb.com/ir .               Item 11.    Executive Compensation.             The information set forth under the captions  Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Executive Compensation,   Compensation Committee
Report  and  Director Compensation  in Schlumberger s Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC with respect to the 2009 Annual General Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.               Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder        Matters.             The information under the caption  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  in Schlumberger s Proxy
Statement to be filed with the SEC with respect to the 2009 Annual General Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.              Equity Compensation Plan Information              The table below sets forth the following information as of December 31, 2008 for (1) all compensation plans previously approved by our stockholders and
(2) all compensation plans not previously approved by our stockholders.         

Plan Category     
      
   Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights     
      
   Weighted-average exercise price of such outstanding options, warrants and rights     
      
   Number of securities remaining available for future issuance     under equity compensation plans
(excluding securities reflected in column (a))      
 
    Equity compensation plans approved by security holders   
      
  32,301,317  
      
  $  
  50.36  
      
  22,599,548   
 
    Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders   
      
  N/A  

N/A  
      
  N/A   

32,301,317  
      
  $  
  50.36  
      
  22,599,548   

Equity compensation
plans approved by our stockholders include the Schlumberger 1994 Stock Option Plan as amended, the Schlumberger 1998 Stock Option Plan as amended, the Schlumberger 2001 Stock Option Plan, as amended, the Schlumberger 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, as
amended, the Schlumberger 2008 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended, and the Schlumberger Discounted Stock Purchase Plan and the Schlumberger Stock and Deferral Plan for Non-Employee Directors.         
   72   

Table of Contents  

   Part III, Item 13, 14                      Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related
Transactions, and Director Independence.             The information under the
captions  Corporate Governance   Director Independence  and  Corporate Governance   Policies and Procedures for Approval of Related Person Transactions  in Schlumberger s Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC
for the 2009 Annual General Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.               Item 14.    Principal Accounting Fees and Services.             The information under the caption  Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in Schlumberger s Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC
with respect to the 2009 Annual General Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated herein by reference.         
   73   

Table of Contents  

   Part IV, Item 15                     PART IV               Item 15.    Exhibits and Financial Statement
Schedules.          

(a)  
     
  The following documents are filed as part of this Report:           

Page(s)    

(1)    Financial Statements   

ConsolidatedStatement of Income for the three years ended December 31, 2008   
     
  35   

ConsolidatedBalance Sheet at December 31, 2008 and 2007   
     
  36   

ConsolidatedStatement of Cash Flows for the three years ended December 31, 2008   
     
  37   

Consolidated Statement of Stockholders  Equity for the three years ended December 31, 2008   
     
  38 and 39   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   
     
  40 to 67   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   
     
  69   

Quarterly Results (Unaudited)   
     
  71   

Financial statements of 20%   50% owned companies accounted for under the equity method and unconsolidated subsidiaries have been omitted because they do not meet the
materiality tests for assets or income.   

(2)    Financial Statement Schedules not required   

(3)    Exhibits: the exhibits listed in the accompanying  Index to Exhibits  are filed or
incorporated by reference as part of this Form 10-K report.    
       
   74   

Table of Contents  

            SIGNATURES
            Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.         

Date: February 11, 2009   

S CHLUMBERGER  L IMITED     

By:   
     
    /s/    H OWARD  G UILD              

Howard Guild     Chief Accounting Officer    
          Pursuant to the requirements of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Name   

Title    

*      Andrew Gould   

Director, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     (Principal Executive Officer)    

/s/    S IMON  A YAT               Simon Ayat   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     (Principal Financial Officer)    

/s/    H OWARD  G UILD               Howard Guild   

Chief Accounting Officer     (Principal Accounting Officer)

*      Philippe Camus   

Director   

*      Jamie S. Gorelick   

Director   

*      Tony Isaac   

Director   

*      Nikolay Kudryavtsev   

Director   

*      Adrian Lajous   

Director   

*      Michael E. Marks   

Director   

*      Leo Rafael Reif   

Director   

*      Tore Sandvold   

Director   

*      Nicolas Seydoux   

Director   

*      Linda G. Stuntz   

Director   

/s/    E LLEN  S UMMER               *By Ellen Summer Attorney-in-Fact   

February 11, 2009   
       
   75   

Table of Contents  

          INDEX TO EXHIBITS          
       
   76   

Table of Contents  

(*)  
     
  Exhibits physically filed with this Form 10-K report. All other exhibits are incorporated by reference.           

(+)  
     
  Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.           
   77   

<EX-10.1>
 2
 dex101.htm
 SCHLUMBERGER 1994 STOCK OPTION PLAN

Schlumberger 1994 Stock Option Plan 

Exhibit 10.1        SCHLUMBERGER 1994 STOCK OPTION PLAN        (As Established Effective January 26, 1994,
       and conformed to include amendments through January 1, 2009)        

1.   
   Purpose of the Plan         This Stock Option Plan (the  Plan )
is intended as an incentive to key employees of Schlumberger Limited (the  Company ) and its subsidiaries. Its purposes are to retain employees with a high degree of training, experience and ability, to attract new employees whose services
are considered unusually valuable, to encourage the sense of proprietorship of such persons and to stimulate the active interest of such persons in the development and financial success of the Company.       

2.   
   Administration of the Plan         (a) The Board of
Directors shall appoint and maintain a Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) which shall consist of at least three (3) members of the Board of Directors, none of whom is an officer or employee of the Company, who shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board. The Committee may from time to time grant incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options ( Stock Options ), under the Plan to the persons described in Section 3 hereof. No member of such Committee shall
be eligible to receive Stock Options under this Plan during his or her tenure on the Committee. Members of the Committee shall be subject to any additional restrictions necessary to satisfy the disinterested administration of the Plan as set forth
in Rule 16b-3 under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Act ) as it may be amended from time to time.      (b)
The Committee shall have full power and authority to interpret the provisions of the Plan and supervise its administration. All decisions and selections made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be made by a majority of its
members. Any decision reduced to writing and signed by a majority of the members shall be fully effective as if adopted by a majority at a meeting duly held. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have full and final authority to
determine the persons to whom Stock Options hereunder shall be granted, the number of shares to be covered by each Stock Option except that no optionee may be granted options for more than 1,000,000 shares during the life of the Plan, and whether
such Stock Option shall be designated an  incentive stock option  or a  non-qualified stock option.       (c) No member of
the Committee shall be liable for anything done or omitted to be done by him or by her or any other member of the Committee in connection with the Plan, except for his or her own willful misconduct or as expressly provided by statute.      (d) If the exercise period of an outstanding Stock Option is continued following a holder s termination of employment as provided in Section 5,
and the holder engages in  detrimental activity  as described in Section 5, the Committee shall have the authority in its discretion to cause such option to be forfeited and certain option exercises thereunder to be rescinded as
provided for in Section 5.   

3.   
   Grants of Stock Options         (a) The persons eligible
for participation in the Plan as recipients of Stock Options shall include only employees of the Company or its subsidiary corporations as defined in Section 424(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time (the
 Code ) and hereinafter referred to as  subsidiaries  who are executive, administrative, professional or technical personnel who have responsibilities affecting the management, direction, development and financial success of the
Company or its subsidiaries. No Director of the Company who is not also an employee is eligible to participate in the Plan, nor is any employee who owns directly or indirectly stock possessing more than five percent (5%) of the total combined
voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or any subsidiary. An employee may receive more than one grant of Stock Options at the Committee s discretion including simultaneous grants of different forms of Stock Options.
     (b) The Committee in granting Stock Options hereunder shall have discretion to determine the terms and conditions upon which such Stock
Options may be exercisable. Each grant of a Stock Option shall be confirmed by an Agreement consistent with this Plan which shall be executed by the Company and by the person to whom such Stock Option is granted. All such Agreements shall contain a
provision providing that the Stock Option shall not be exercisable unless the recipient remains in the employment of the Company or a subsidiary for a period of at least one (1) year from the date of any such Agreement, subject to the right of
the Company or subsidiary to terminate such employment.      (c) For purposes of this Plan, employment with the Company shall include
employment with any subsidiary of the Company, and Stock Options granted under this Plan shall not be affected by an employee s transfer of employment from the Company to a subsidiary, from a subsidiary to the Company or between subsidiaries.
The foregoing notwithstanding, with respect to an employee whose employment is transferred directly and without interruption to a corporation, limited liability company or other entity (an  M-I Company ) pursuant to and in accordance with
the terms of that certain Amended and Restated Organization Agreement and other agreements in connection therewith by and among Smith International, Inc., Schlumberger,  et al ., dated as of July 13, 1999, such employee s employment
with the Company shall include employment with an M-I Company for purposes of exercising such employee s outstanding Stock Options as of the transfer date, and any such Stock Option shall not be affected by such employee s subsequent
transfer of employment directly and without interruption from an M-I Company to the Company or any of its subsidiaries, from the Company or any of its subsidiaries to an M-I Company or between M-I Companies.      (d) The purchase price of the shares as to which a Stock Option is exercised shall be paid in full at the time of the exercise: (i) in cash or by
certified check; (ii) in the discretion of the Committee, by the delivery of shares of Schlumberger Common Stock with a fair market value (as determined according to Section 5(b) of the Plan) at the time of exercise equal to the total
option price; or (iii) in the discretion of the Committee, by a combination of the methods described in (i) and (ii).         
   2   

4.   
   Shares Subject to the Plan         Subject to adjustment
as provided in Section 8 hereof, there shall be subject to the Plan 10,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the  Shares ). The Shares subject to the Plan shall consist of authorized and unissued
shares or previously issued shares reacquired and held by the Company or any subsidiary. Should any Stock Option expire or be terminated prior to its exercise in full and prior to the termination of the Plan, the Shares theretofore subject to such
Stock Option shall be available for further grants under the Plan. Until termination of the Plan, the Company and/or one or more subsidiaries shall at all times make available a sufficient number of Shares to meet the requirements of the Plan. After
termination of the Plan, the number of Shares reserved for purposes of the Plan from time to time shall be only such number of Shares as are issuable under then outstanding Stock Options.       

5.   
   Terms of Stock Options         (a) Stock Options granted
under this Plan which are designated as  incentive stock options  may be granted with respect to any number of Shares, subject to the limitation that the aggregate fair market value of such Shares (determined in accordance with
Section 5(b) of the Plan at the time the option is granted) with respect to which such options are exercisable for the first time by an employee during any one calendar year (under all such plans of the Company and any subsidiary of the
Company) shall not exceed $100,000. To the extent that the aggregate fair market value of Shares with respect to which incentive stock options (determined without regard to this subsection) are exercisable for the first time by any employee during
any calendar year (under all plans of the employer corporation and its parent and subsidiary corporations) exceeds $100,000, such options shall be treated as options which are not incentive stock options. No Stock Options shall be granted pursuant
to the Plan after January 26, 2004.      (b) The purchase price of each Share subject to a Stock Option shall be determined by the
Committee prior to granting a Stock Option. The Committee shall set the purchase price for each Share at either the fair market value (the  Fair Market Value ) of each Share on the date the Stock Option is granted, or at such other price
as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine, but not less than one hundred percent (100%) of such Fair Market Value. The Fair Market Value of a Share on a particular date shall be deemed to be the mean between the highest and lowest
composite sales price per share of the Common Stock in the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Quotations, as reported for that date, or, if there shall have been no such reported prices for that date, the reported mean price on the last
preceding date on which a composite sale or sales were effected on one or more of the exchanges on which the Shares were traded.      (c) (i)
Each Stock Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable in one or more installments (annual or other) on such date or dates as the Committee may in its sole discretion determine, and the terms of such exercise shall be set forth in the Stock Option
Agreement covering the grant of the option, provided that no Stock Option may be exercised after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date such option is granted (the maximum term established by the Committee with respect to a particular
Stock Option is hereinafter referred to as the  Option Period ). For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the provisions of this Section 5(c)(i) apply to any Stock Option held by an optionee whose employment terminated due to
death or disability prior to January 17, 2008.         
   3   

(ii) Except as provided in paragraph (e) below, the right to purchase Shares shall
be cumulative so that when the right to purchase any Shares has accrued such Shares or any part thereof may be purchased at any time thereafter until the expiration or termination of the Stock Option.      (iii) At any time after the granting of any such Stock Option, the Committee may accelerate the installment exercise dates (subject,
however, to any applicable limitations concerning options designated  incentive stock options ).      (iv)
 Termination of Employment and Subsequent Events .      (A) If the optionee s employment with the Company is
terminated with the consent of the Company and provided such employment is not terminated for cause (of which the Committee shall be the sole judge), the Committee may permit such Stock Option to be exercised by such optionee at any time during the
period of three (3) months after such termination, provided that such option may be exercised before expiration and within such three-month period only to the extent it was exercisable on the date of such termination.      (B) In the event an optionee dies while in the employ of the Company, any outstanding Stock Option shall automatically become fully vested
and exercisable by the person or persons entitled thereto under the optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution during the  Post-Death Exercise Period.  The Post-Death Exercise Period shall be a period commencing on the
date of death and ending (i) for Stock Options granted on or after October 19, 1994, sixty (60) months after the date of death or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less, and (ii) for all other Stock Options, twelve
(12) months after the date of death or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less.      (C) In the event an
optionee dies after termination of employment but prior to the exercise in full of any Stock Option which was exercisable on the date of such termination, such option may be exercised before expiration of its term by the person or persons entitled
thereto under the optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution during the Post-Death Exercise Period to the extent exercisable by the optionee at the date of death. For purposes of this Section 5(c)(iv)(C), the Post-Death
Exercise Period shall be a period commencing on the date of the optionee s termination of employment and ending (i) for Stock Options granted on or after October 19, 1994, sixty (60) months after the date of termination of
employment or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less, and (ii) for all other Stock Options, twelve (12) months after the date of death or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less.         
   4   

(D) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated without the consent
of the Company for any reason other than the death of the optionee, or if the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated for cause, his or her rights under any then outstanding Stock Option shall terminate immediately. The Committee
shall be the sole judge of whether the optionee s employment is terminated without the consent of the Company or for cause.      (E) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the optionee engages in  detrimental activity  (as hereinafter defined) within one year following termination of employment for any reason other than retirement, the Committee, in its
discretion, may cause the optionee s right to exercise such option to be forfeited. Such forfeiture may occur at any time after the Committee determines that the optionee has engaged in detrimental activity and prior to the actual delivery of
all shares subject to the option pursuant to the exercise of such option. If an allegation of detrimental activity by an optionee is made to the Committee, the Committee, in its discretion, may suspend the exercisability of the optionee s
options for up to two months to permit the investigation of such allegation. In addition, if the optionee engages in detrimental activity within one year following termination of employment for any reason other than retirement, the Committee, in its
discretion, may rescind any option exercise made within the period commencing six months preceding the date of the optionee s termination of employment and ending three months following such termination. For purposes of this Section 5,
 detrimental activity  means activity that is determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion to be detrimental to the interests of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, including but not limited to situations where such
optionee: (1) divulges trade secrets of the Company, proprietary data or other confidential information relating to the Company or to the business of the Company and any subsidiaries, (2) enters into employment with a competitor under
circumstances suggesting that such optionee will be using unique or special knowledge gained as a Company employee to compete with the Company, (3) uses information obtained during the course of his or her prior employment for his or her own
purposes, such as for the solicitation of business, (4) is determined to have engaged (whether or not prior to termination) in either gross misconduct or criminal activity harmful to the Company, or (5) takes any action that harms the
business interests, reputation, or goodwill of the Company and/or its subsidiaries.      For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the
provisions of this Section 5(c)(iv) apply to any Stock Option held by an optionee whose employment terminated due to death or disability prior to January 17, 2008.      (v)  Retirement, Disability and Subsequent Events .      (A) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated due to retirement (within the meaning of any prevailing pension plan
in which such optionee is a participant), such Stock Option shall be exercisable by such optionee at any time during the period of sixty (60) months after such termination or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less (the
 Retirement Exercise Period ), provided that such option may be exercised after such termination and before expiration only to the extent that it is exercisable on the date of such termination.         
   5   

(B) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated due to disability,
such Stock Option shall automatically become fully vested and exercisable. Such optionee may exercise the outstanding Stock Option at any time during (1) in the case of Stock Options intended to be incentive stock options within the meaning of
Section 422 of the Code and granted prior to January 17, 2008, the period of three (3) months after such termination or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less, or (2) in the case of all other Stock Options, the
period of sixty (60) months after such termination or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less (the  Disability Exercise Period ). For purposes of this Section 5(c)(v),  disability  shall mean such
disability (whether through physical or mental impairment) which totally and permanently incapacitates the optionee from any gainful employment in any field which the optionee is suited by education, training, or experience, as determined by the
Committee in its sole and absolute discretion.      (C) In the event an optionee dies during the Retirement Exercise Period or
the Disability Exercise Period, such Stock Option may be exercised by the person or persons entitled thereto under the optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution to the extent exercisable by the optionee at the date of death and to
the extent the term of the Option Period has not expired within such Retirement Exercise Period or Disability Exercise Period.      (D) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the optionee engages in  detrimental activity  (as defined in Section 5(c)(iv)(E)) within five years after termination of employment by reason of retirement, the Committee, in its
discretion, may cause the optionee s right to exercise such option to be forfeited. Such forfeiture may occur at any time after the Committee determines that the optionee has engaged in detrimental activity and prior to the actual delivery of
all shares subject to the option pursuant to the exercise of such option. If an allegation of detrimental activity by an optionee is made to the Committee, the Committee, in its discretion, may suspend the exercisability of the optionee s
options for up to two months to permit the investigation of such allegation. In addition, if the optionee engages in detrimental activity within five years following termination of employment by reason of retirement, the Committee, in its
discretion, may rescind any option exercise made within the period commencing six months preceding the date of the optionee s termination of employment by retirement and ending one year following such termination.      For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the provisions of this Section 5(c)(v) apply to any Stock Option held by an optionee whose employment
terminated due to death or disability prior to January 17, 2008.         
   6   

(vi) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this paragraph (c), in no event may a Stock
Option be exercised after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date such Stock Option is granted.      (d) At the time of the grant
of a Stock Option, the Committee may determine that the Shares covered by such option shall be restricted as to transferability. If so restricted, such Shares shall not be sold, transferred or disposed of in any manner, and such Shares shall not be
pledged or otherwise hypothecated until the restriction expires by its terms. The circumstances under which any such restriction shall expire shall be determined by the Committee and shall be set forth in the Stock Option Agreement covering the
grant of the option to purchase such Shares.      (e) The Committee shall designate whether a Stock Option is to be an  incentive stock
option  for purposes of Section 422 of the Code.       

6.   
   Assignability of Stock Options         Stock Options
granted under the Plan shall not be assignable or otherwise transferable by the recipient except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Otherwise, Stock Options granted under this Plan shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the
recipient (except as otherwise provided in the Plan or the applicable Agreement for Stock Options other than  incentive stock options ) only by the recipient for his or her individual account, and no purported assignment or transfer of
such Stock Options thereunder, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest in the purported assignee or transferee any interest or right therein whatsoever but immediately upon any such purported assignment or
transfer, or any attempt to make the same, such Stock Options thereunder shall terminate and become of no further effect.       
    The Committee may make such provisions and
rules as it may deem appropriate for the withholding of taxes in connection with any Stock Options granted under the Plan. An optionee, in the discretion of the Committee, may elect to satisfy all or any portion of the United States tax required to
be withheld by the Company in connection with the exercise of such option by electing to have the Company withhold a number of shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to or less than the amount required to be withheld. An
optionee s election pursuant to the preceding sentence must be made on or before the date of exercise and must be irrevocable.       

8.   
   Reorganizations and Recapitalizations of the Company         (a) The existence of this Plan and Stock Options granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Company or its stockholders to make or authorize any or all adjustments, recapitalizations, reorganizations or other
changes in the Company s capital structure or its business, or any merger or consolidation of the Company, or any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stocks ahead of or affecting the Shares or the rights thereof, or the
dissolution or liquidation of the Company, or any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business, or any other corporate act or proceeding, whether of a similar character or otherwise.         
   7   

(b) Except as hereinafter provided, the issue by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or
securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, for cash or property, or for labor or services, either upon direct sale or upon exercise of rights or warrants to subscribe therefor, or upon conversion of shares or obligations of the
Company convertible into such shares or other securities, shall not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number of Shares subject to Stock Options granted hereunder.      (c) The Shares with respect to which Stock Options may be granted hereunder are shares of the Common Stock of the Company as presently constituted, but
if, and whenever, prior to the delivery by the Company or a subsidiary of all of the Shares which are subject to the Stock Options or rights granted hereunder, the Company shall effect a subdivision or consolidation of shares or other capital
readjustments, the payment of a stock dividend or other increase or reduction of the number of shares of the Common Stock outstanding without receiving compensation therefor in money, services or property, the number of Shares subject to the Plan
shall be proportionately adjusted and the number of Shares with respect to which Stock Options granted hereunder may thereafter be exercised shall:      (i) in the event of an increase in the number of outstanding shares, be proportionately increased, and the cash consideration (if any) payable per Share shall be proportionately reduced; and      (ii) in the event of a reduction in the number of outstanding shares, be proportionately reduced, and the cash consideration (if any)
payable per Share shall be proportionately increased.      (d) If the Company merges with one or more corporations, or consolidates with one or
more corporations and the Company shall be the surviving corporation, thereafter, upon any exercise of Stock Options granted hereunder, the recipient shall, at no additional cost (other than the option price, if any) be entitled to receive (subject
to any required action by stockholders) in lieu of the number of Shares as to which such Stock Options shall then be exercisable the number and class of shares of stock or other securities to which the recipient would have been entitled pursuant to
the terms of the agreement of merger or consolidation, if immediately prior to such merger or consolidation the recipient had been the holder of record of the number of shares of Common Stock of the Company equal to the number of Shares as to which
such Stock Options shall be exercisable. Upon any reorganization, merger or consolidation where the Company is not the surviving corporation or upon liquidation or dissolution of the Company, all outstanding Stock Options shall, unless provisions
are made in connection with such reorganization, merger or consolidation for the assumption of such Stock Options, be cancelled by the Company as of the effective date of any such reorganization, merger or consolidation, or of any dissolution or
liquidation of the Company, by giving notice to each holder thereof or his or her personal representative of its intention to do so and by permitting the exercise during the thirty-day period next preceding such effective date of all Stock Options
which are outstanding as of such date, whether or not otherwise exercisable.         
   8   

9.   
   Registration under Securities Act of 1933 and Exchange Listing         It is intended that the Stock Options and Shares covered by the Plan will be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. At the time any Shares are issued or transferred to satisfy the exercise of a Stock
Option granted under the Plan, such Shares will have been listed (or listed subject to notice of issuance) on the New York Stock Exchange.       
    The appropriate officers of
the Company shall cause to be filed any reports, returns or other information regarding the Stock Options granted hereunder or any Shares issued pursuant to the exercise thereof or a payment made hereunder, as may be required by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any other applicable statute, rule or regulation.       
    The Plan shall be effective
January 26, 1994, subject to approval within twelve (12) months from the effective date by the holders of a majority of the votes cast at a meeting. For this purpose, abstentions are counted as votes against. In the event the Plan is not
so approved, the Plan shall automatically terminate and be of no further force or effect. No Stock Options shall be granted pursuant to this Plan after January 25, 2004.       

12.   
   Amendment or Termination         The Board of Directors
may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan at any time insofar as permitted by law, but no amendment or alteration shall be made without the approval of the stockholders:      (a) if and to the extent such amendment is required to be approved by stockholders to continue the exemption provided for in Rule 16b-3 (or any successor provision) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; or
     (b) if and to the extent such amendment requires stockholder approval under Section 422 of the Code (or any successor provision).
     No amendment of the Plan shall alter or impair any of the rights or obligations of any person, without his or her consent, under any option or right
theretofore granted under the Plan.       

13.   
   Government Regulations         Notwithstanding any of the
provisions hereof, or of any Stock Option granted hereunder, the obligation of the Company or any subsidiary to sell and deliver Shares under such Stock Option or to make cash payments in respect thereto shall be subject to all applicable laws,
rules and regulations and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required, and the recipient shall agree that he will not exercise or convert any option granted hereunder, and that the Company or
any subsidiary will not be obligated to issue any Shares or make any payments under any such option if the exercise thereof or if the issuance of such Shares or if the payment made shall constitute a violation by the recipient or the Company or any
subsidiary of any provision of any applicable law or regulation of any governmental authority.         
   9   

</EX-10.1>

<EX-10.2>
 3
 dex102.htm
 SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED SUPPLEMENTARY BENEFIT PLAN

Schlumberger Limited Supplementary Benefit Plan 

Exhibit 10.2        SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED        SUPPLEMENTARY BENEFIT PLAN       (As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 1995,      and conformed to include amendments through January 1, 2009)   

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED        SUPPLEMENTARY BENEFIT PLAN       (As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 1995,      and conformed to include amendments through January 1, 2009)       INDEX        

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED        SUPPLEMENTARY BENEFIT PLAN       (As Amended and Restated Effective January 1, 1995,      and conformed to include amendments through January 1, 2009)       PREAMBLE       Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V.), a Netherlands Antilles corporation (the
 Company ), established an unfunded deferred compensation plan known as the Schlumberger Limited Supplementary Benefit Plan, effective as of January 1, 1981, and thereafter amended and restated such plan effective January 1,
1990. The amended and restated plan, as amended by the First Amendment thereto, is referred to herein as the  Prior Plan.  The purpose of the Prior Plan was to restore to eligible key employees of the Company and its participating
subsidiaries and affiliated companies the amount of benefits which they are unable to receive under the Qualified Plans as a result of the Code Section 401(a)(17) Limitations, which limit the annual compensation that may be taken into account
in computing benefits under the Qualified Plans, and by the Code Section 415 Limitations, which limit benefits and contributions under the Qualified Plans. Effective as of January 1, 1995, the Company hereby amends and restates the Prior
Plan to (i) reflect the withdrawal of Schlumberger Technology Corporation and its subsidiaries as employers under the Prior Plan, (ii) reflect that all STC Plan Benefits (as herein defined) will be paid pursuant to the Schlumberger
Technology Corporation Supplementary Benefit Plan, as established effective as of January 1, 1995, and (iii) incorporate the First Amendment to the Prior Plan (the  Plan ).      Program A of the Plan, set forth in Article III below, is intended to qualify for the exemptions provided under Title I of ERISA for plans that are not
tax-qualified and that are maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation for a select group of management or highly compensated employees. Program B of the Plan, set forth in Article IV below, is intended to qualify for the exemptions
provided under Title I of ERISA for plans that are excess benefit plans.         
   -1-   

NOW, THEREFORE, Schlumberger Limited hereby amends and restates the Prior Plan, effective as of
January 1, 1995, to read as follows:       ARTICLE I         DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION        1.1  Definitions : Except as otherwise indicated, the
terms used in this Plan shall have the same meaning as they have under the applicable Qualified Plans. For purposes of this Plan, the following definitions shall apply:        Administrative Committee   shall mean the Administrative Committee of the Schlumberger Limited Pension Plan.   
    Affiliate   shall mean any corporation in which the shares owned or controlled directly or indirectly by Schlumberger
Limited shall represent 50% or more of the voting power of the issued and outstanding capital stock of such corporation. In addition to the above, the term  Affiliate  shall include any corporation or other trade or business which,
together with Schlumberger Limited, is  under common control  within the meaning of Code Section 414(b) or (c) as defined in Code Section 1563(a)(1) and modified by Code Section 415(h). Notwithstanding the foregoing,
the term  Affiliate  shall not include Schlumberger Technology Corporation, a Texas corporation, or any subsidiary of Schlumberger Technology Corporation.        Board of Directors   shall mean the Board of Directors of Schlumberger Limited.         
   -2-   

Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from
time to time.        Code Section 401(a)(17) Limitations   shall mean the limitations imposed by Code
Section 401(a)(17).        Code Section 415 Limitations   shall mean the limitations imposed by Code
Section 415 without regard to Code Section 415(c)(1)(B).        Company   shall mean Schlumberger
Limited (Schlumberger N.V.), a Netherlands Antilles corporation.        Employee   shall mean any person who is
employed by and carried on the payroll of an Employer and who meets the requirements for participation in a Qualified Defined Benefit Plan or Qualified Defined Contribution Plan maintained by an Employer.        Employer   shall mean the Company and any Affiliate which meets the definition of an Employer in the applicable Qualified
Plan.        ERISA   shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to
time.        Participant   shall mean a participant in a Qualified Defined Contribution Plan or a Qualified
Defined Benefit Plan of the Company or any Affiliate.        Plan   shall mean the Schlumberger Limited
Supplementary Benefit Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 1995 and set forth herein, and as amended from time to time.         
   -3-   

Prior Plan   shall mean the Schlumberger Limited Supplementary Benefit
Plan, effective as of January 1, 1990, as thereafter amended.        Qualified Defined Benefit Plans   shall
mean the defined benefit plans of the Company and its Affiliates which are intended to meet the requirements of ERISA and of Code Sections 401(a) and 501(a).        Qualified Defined Contribution Plans   shall mean the profit-sharing plans of the Company and its Affiliates which are
intended to meet the requirements of ERISA and of Code Sections 401(a) and 501(a); provided, however, that the term  Qualified Defined Contribution Plan  shall only include the portion of such a profit-sharing plan that provides for
discretionary employer contributions and shall not include any portion of such a profit-sharing plan that is subject to Code Section 401(k) or 401(m).        Qualified Plans   shall mean the Qualified Defined Contribution Plans and Qualified Defined Benefit Plans.        STC Plan   shall mean the Schlumberger Technology Corporation Supplementary Benefit Plan, as established effective January 1, 1995 and as thereafter amended from time to time.        STC Plan Benefit   shall mean any benefit accrued pursuant to Section 3.3 or 4.3 of the Prior Plan and unpaid as of
January 1, 1995, to the extent calculated with reference to any Qualified Plan thereunder sponsored or contributed to by Schlumberger Technology Corporation or any subsidiary thereof.         
   -4-   

1.2  Gender and Number : Except when otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine pronoun when
used in the Plan shall refer to either male or female Participants, and the definition of any term in the singular shall also include the plural.      1.3  Severability : In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held invalid or illegal for any reason, any illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, but the Plan shall be construed and enforced as
if the illegal or invalid provision had never been inserted, and the Company shall have the privilege and opportunity to correct and remedy questions of illegality or invalidity by amendment as provided in the Plan.      1.4  Applicable Law : This Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.      1.5  Plan Not an Employment Contract : The Plan is not an employment contract. The receipt of benefits under the Plan does not give to any person
the right to be continued in employment by the Company or an Affiliate, and all Employees remain subject to change of salary, transfer, change of job, discipline, layoff, discharge (with or without cause), or any other change of employment status.
     1.6  Source of Payment : The benefits described in this Plan are contractual obligations and liabilities of the applicable Employer
to pay compensation for services in accordance with the terms hereof. All amounts paid under this Plan shall be paid in cash from the general assets of the applicable Employer. Benefits shall be reflected on the accounting records of the Employers,
but shall not be construed to create, or require the creation of, a trust, custodial or escrow account. No special or separate fund need be established and no segregation of assets need be made to assure the payment of such benefits. No Participant
shall have any right, title, or interest whatever in or to any investment reserves, accounts, funds or assets that the Company or  
       
   -5-   

the Employers may purchase, establish, or accumulate to aid in providing the benefits described in this Plan. Nothing contained in this Plan, and no action
taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a trust or a fiduciary relationship of any kind between an Employer or the Company and a Participant or any other person. Neither a Participant nor the beneficiary of a
Participant shall acquire any interest hereunder greater than that of an unsecured creditor.      1.7  Tax Withholding : The Employer may
withhold from a payment any federal, state, or local taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to such payment and such sums as the Employer may reasonably estimate as necessary to cover any taxes for which the Employer may be liable and
which may be assessed with regard to such payment.       ARTICLE II         PARTICIPATION        A Participant entitled to benefits under the Prior Plan
shall receive such benefits, together with any benefits accrued hereunder from and after January 1, 1995, pursuant to the provisions of this Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Participant shall receive STC Plan Benefits hereunder from and
after January 1, 1995, but such benefits shall instead be treated as provided in Section 5.5. An Employee who becomes eligible for participation in Program A of this Plan (as described in Section 3.2) from and after January 1,
1995 shall become a Participant in Program A of this Plan if, as of or after such date, the benefits he would otherwise receive as a result of his participation in one or more of the Qualified Plans are reduced as a result of the Code
Section 401(a)(17) Limitations. An Employee who becomes eligible for participation in Program B of this Plan (as described in Section 4.2) from and after January 1, 1995 shall become a Participant in Program B of this Plan if, as of
or after such date, the benefits he would otherwise receive as a result of his participation in one or more of the Qualified Plans are  
       
   -6-   

reduced as a result of the Code Section 415 Limitations. An Employee who becomes eligible for participation in both Program A and B of this Plan from
and after January 1, 1995 and whose Qualified Plan benefits have been reduced by both the Code Section 401(a)(17) Limitations and the Code Section 415 Limitations shall participate in both Program A and B; provided, however, that
nothing in this Plan shall entitle him to receive an amount that exceeds the total benefits that would have been his due under the Qualified Plans in the absence of the Code Section 401(a)(17) Limitations and the Code Section 415
Limitations.       ARTICLE III         PROGRAM A: RESTORATION OF          BENEFITS REDUCED BY CODE SECTION 401(a)(17)        3.1  Purpose : Code Section 401(a)(17) limits the amount of compensation that may be taken into account under the Qualified Plans. The purpose
of Program A is to restore to Participants in the Qualified Plans any benefits that would have been available to them under the Qualified Plans had the Code Section 401(a)(17) Limitations not been imposed.      3.2  Eligibility : In order to participate in Program A of this Plan, an individual must (a) be a Participant in one of the Qualified Plans and
(b) have experienced a reduction in the benefits he would have received from the Qualified Plan in which he is a Participant as a result of the Code Section 401(a)(17) Limitations on the amount of annual compensation that may be included
in the calculation of benefits. In addition, this Program is intended solely for the participation of a select group of management or highly compensated employees, as those terms are set forth in Section 201(2) of ERISA.      3.3  Calculation of Restoration Benefit : The amount of restoration benefits payable to a Participant in Program A of this Plan with reference to
each Qualified Defined Benefit Plan under which the Participant may claim benefits will be calculated in the manner described in  
       
   -7-   

Subsection (a). The amount of benefits payable to a Participant in Program A of this Plan with reference to each Qualified Defined Contribution Plan under
which the Participant may claim benefits will be calculated in the manner described in Subsection (b).      (a)  Restoration
of Amounts Under Qualified Defined Benefit Plans : When a Participant s defined benefit commences under a Qualified Defined Benefit Plan, the Company will calculate a benefit in an amount equal to the excess of (i) over (ii), where
(i) is equal to the amount of the defined benefit which would have been payable under the Qualified Defined Benefit Plan but for the Code Section 401(a)(17) Limitations and (ii) is equal to the amount of the benefit actually payable
under the Qualified Defined Benefit Plan, which excess is hereinafter referred to as the  Defined Benefit Restoration Benefit.  The Company shall pay a Defined Benefit Restoration Benefit to the Participant or to such other person or
persons as may be eligible for a survivor s benefit under the applicable Qualified Defined Benefit Plan, at such times and in such manner as the benefit is payable pursuant to the terms of the Qualified Defined Benefit Plan; provided, however,
that such a Defined Benefit Restoration Benefit shall only be paid to or in respect of a Participant who terminates Active Service after attaining age 50.      (b)  Restoration of Amounts Under Qualified Defined Contribution Plans : A benefit, hereinafter referred to as the  Defined Contribution Restoration Benefit,  shall be provided to each Participant in
Program A whose discretionary Employer profit-sharing contribution under a Qualified Defined Contribution Plan was reduced as a result of the Code Section 401(a)(17) Limitations. The Defined Contribution Plan Restoration Benefit shall be equal
to the excess, if any, of (i) over (ii) where (i) is equal to the amount of the discretionary Employer profit-sharing contribution the Employer would have made to the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan for a Plan Year on behalf of
the Participant, based on the Participant s  
       
   -8-   

compensation for that Plan Year without regard to the Code Section 401(a)(17) Limitations, and (ii) is equal to the amount of the discretionary
Employer profit-sharing contribution that the Employer actually paid into the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan on behalf of the Participant for such Plan Year, after application of the Code Section 401(a)(17) Limitations.      The Defined Contribution Restoration Benefit shall be treated as if it is actually invested in the applicable Qualified Defined
Contribution Plan and shall be credited with gains and losses at the same time and in the same manner as amounts which are actually invested under the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan; provided, however, that any dividend or interest amounts
credited with respect to the Schlumberger Common Stock Fund which are deemed to be credited to a Participant s benefit under the Plan shall be characterized instead as if such dividend or interest amounts are invested in the General Fund. In
addition, each Participant who is deemed to have an amount invested in the Schlumberger Common Stock Fund with respect to Prior Plan benefits accrued as of March 31, 1991, shall be deemed to have been credited with the equivalent number of
whole shares of common stock of Schlumberger Limited as could have been purchased on March 31, 1991 based on the amount of the Participant s Defined Contribution Restoration Benefit which was deemed to be invested in the Schlumberger
Common Stock Fund on March 31, 1991 and the closing price of the common stock of Schlumberger Limited as listed on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Quotations on March 31, 1991. The number of shares of Schlumberger
Limited common stock which are deemed to be held in such a Participant s account under the Plan shall be frozen effective as of April 1, 1991 and no additional shares shall be credited to such account. Any investment election made pursuant
to the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan shall also apply to the Defined Contribution Restoration Benefit and shall be effective at the same time that such  
       
   -9-   

election is applicable to the Participant s Account under the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan. The Administrative Committee shall develop such
procedures as it deems necessary for purposes of valuing the Defined Contribution Restoration Benefits and maintaining records thereof. The Defined Contribution Restoration Benefit shall be calculated for every Plan Year until the expiration of the
Plan Year during which occurs the earliest of (1) the Participant s termination of employment for any reason or (2) the termination of the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan under which the Participant is receiving benefits. The
Defined Contribution Restoration Benefit shall become payable as provided in Section 5.2 hereof.       ARTICLE IV         PROGRAM B: RESTORATION OF          BENEFITS REDUCED BY CODE SECTION 415        4.1  Purpose : Code Section 415 limits the amount of benefits
available under a defined benefit plan and the amount of contributions permissible under a defined contribution plan. The purpose of Program B is to restore to Participants any Qualified Plan benefits that have been reduced as a result of the Code
Section 415 Limitations.      4.2  Eligibility : An employee is eligible to participate in Program B of this Plan if he (a) is a
Participant in one of the Qualified Plans and (b) has experienced a reduction in the amount of benefits he would have received from the Qualified Plan in which he is a Participant as a result of the Code Section 415 Limitations.
     4.3  Calculation of Restoration Benefit : The amount of restoration benefits payable to a Participant in Program B of this Plan with
reference to each Qualified Defined Benefit Plan under which the Participant may claim benefits will be calculated in the manner described in Subsection (a). The amount of benefits payable to a Participant in Program B of this Plan with reference to
each Qualified Defined Contribution Plan under which the Participant may claim benefits will be calculated in the manner described in Subsection (b).         
   -10-   

(a)  Restoration of Amounts Under Qualified Defined Benefit Plans : When a
Participant retires under a Qualified Defined Benefit Plan after attaining age 50, the Company will calculate a benefit equal to the excess of (i) over (ii), where (i) is equal to the amount of the defined benefit that would have been
payable under the Qualified Defined Benefit Plan without regard to the Code Section 415 Limitations and (ii) is equal to the amount of benefit actually payable under the Qualified Defined Benefit Plan, which excess is hereinafter referred
to as the  Section 415 Defined Benefit Restoration Benefit.  The Company shall pay a Section 415 Defined Benefit Restoration Benefit to the Participant or to such person or persons as may be eligible for a survivor s benefit
under the applicable Qualified Defined Benefit Plan, at such times and such manner as the benefit is payable pursuant to the terms of the Qualified Defined Benefit Plan; provided, however, that such Section 415 Defined Benefit Restoration
Benefit shall only be paid to or in respect of a Participant who terminates Active Service after attaining age 50.      (b)
 Restoration of Amounts Under Qualified Defined Contribution Plans : A benefit, hereinafter referred to as the  Section 415 Defined Contribution Restoration Benefit,  will be payable to Participants in Program B whose Qualified
Defined Contribution Plan benefits were reduced as a result of the Code Section 415 Limitations. The Section 415 Defined Contribution Restoration Benefit shall be payable in an amount equal to the excess of (i) over (ii), where
(i) is equal to the amount of the benefit which would have been payable under the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan without regard to the Code Section 415 Limitations and (ii) is equal to the amount of the benefit actually payable
under the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan.         
   -11-   

The Section 415 Defined Contribution Restoration Benefit shall be treated as if it
is actually invested in the applicable Qualified Defined Contribution Plan and shall be credited with gains and losses at the same time and in the same manner as amounts which are actually invested under the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan;
provided, however, that any dividend or interest amounts credited with respect to the Schlumberger Common Stock Fund which are deemed to be credited to a Participant s benefit under the Plan shall be characterized instead as if such dividend or
interest amounts are invested in the General Fund. In addition, each Participant who is deemed to have an amount invested in the Schlumberger Common Stock Fund with respect to Prior Plan benefits accrued as of March 31, 1991, shall be deemed to
have been credited with the equivalent number of whole shares of common stock of Schlumberger Limited as could have been purchased on March 31, 1991 based on the amount of the Participant s Section 415 Defined Contribution Restoration
Benefit which was deemed to be invested in the Schlumberger Common Stock Fund on March 31, 1991 and the closing price of the common stock of Schlumberger Limited as listed on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Quotations on
March 31, 1991. The number of shares of Schlumberger Limited common stock which are deemed to be held in such a Participant s account under the Plan shall be frozen effective as of April 1, 1991 and no additional shares shall be
credited to such account. Any investment elections made pursuant to the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan shall also apply to the Section 415 Defined Contribution Restoration Benefit and shall be effective at the same time that such election
is applicable to the Participant s Account under the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan. The Administrative Committee shall develop such procedures as it  
       
   -12-   

deems necessary for purposes of valuing the Section 415 Defined Contribution Restoration Benefits and maintaining records thereof. The Section 415
Defined Contribution Restoration Benefit shall be calculated for every Plan Year until the expiration of the Plan Year during which occurs the earliest of (1) the Participant s termination of employment for any reason or (2) the
termination of the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan under which the Participant is receiving benefits. The Section 415 Defined Contribution Restoration Benefit shall become payable as provided in Section 5.2 hereof.       ARTICLE V         VESTING AND FORM OF
PAYMENT        5.1  Vesting : A Participant shall become vested in the benefits payable under Sections 3.3 and 4.3 hereof at
the same time that he becomes vested under the applicable Qualified Plan; provided, however, that in order to become vested in the Defined Benefit Restoration Benefit and the Section 415 Defined Benefit Restoration Benefit, the Participant must
attain age 50 before he terminates Active Service. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant (and his survivor or Beneficiary) shall have no right to a benefit under this Plan if the Administrative Committee determines that the Participant
engaged in a dishonest act injurious to the finances or reputation of the Company or any of its Affiliates or that the Participant has violated the Patent and Confidential Information Agreement between the Participant and the Company or any of its
Affiliates or any other confidential arrangement involving the Company or any of its Affiliates to which he is a party or by which he is bound.      5.2  Defined Contribution Plan Benefits : The Defined Contribution Restoration Benefit and the Section 415 Defined Contribution Restoration Benefit (the  Defined Contribution Benefits ) shall be payable in the form of a
lump sum. Such lump-sum payment shall be made as soon as practicable following the end of the Plan Year in which the  
       
   -13-   

Participant s termination of Active Service occurs. In the event of the death of the Participant prior to full payment of his Defined Contribution
Benefits, any such unpaid benefits shall be paid in a lump sum to the person or persons who are designated as the Participant s Beneficiaries under the applicable Qualified Defined Contribution Plan (with the valid consent of the
Participant s spouse where required under the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan). Any such Defined Contribution Benefits which are paid as a result of the death of the Participant shall be paid in a lump sum as soon as practicable following
the end of the Plan Year in which the Participant s death occurs.      Notwithstanding the above, a Participant or
Beneficiary may request that the lump-sum payment be made as soon as practicable following the end of the Plan Quarter in which the Participant s termination of Active Service occurs (hereinafter referred to as an  Early
Distribution ). Any such request for an Early Distribution under this Plan may only be made if the Participant or Beneficiary has first elected an Early Distribution under the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan and, thereby, has agreed to
forfeit all discretionary Employer profit-sharing contributions and reallocated forfeitures under the Qualified Defined Contribution Plan for the Plan Year in which the Participant s termination of Active Service occurs. A request for an Early
Distribution under this Plan must be submitted to the Administrative Committee prior to the end of the Plan Quarter in which the Participant terminates Active Service. An Early Distribution is subject to the unanimous approval of the Administrative
Committee. When considering a request for an Early Distribution under this Plan, the Administrative Committee will review all relevant factors, including but not limited to, a review of (i) the impact of the proposed Early Distribution on the
liquidity of the Company, (ii) the business conditions prevailing at the time of the proposed Early Distribution, and (iii) the Participant s compliance with the terms of the Patent  
       
   -14-   

and Confidential Information Agreement between the Participant and the Company or the applicable Affiliate. If the Administrative Committee does not approve
the request for an Early Distribution, the lump-sum payment will be made after the end of the Plan Year in which the Participant s termination of Active Service occurs. If the Administrative Committee approves the request of a Participant or
Beneficiary for an Early Distribution, the Participant or Beneficiary will forfeit all Qualified Defined Contribution Plan benefits for the entire Plan Year in which the Participant s termination of Active Service occurs. In the case of the
death of a Participant, if there is more than one designated Beneficiary, all Beneficiaries must request the Early Distribution and such request must be approved by the Administrative Committee, otherwise payment will be made after the end of the
Plan Year in which the Participant s death occurs.      5.3  Defined Benefit Plan Benefits : The Defined Benefit Restoration Benefit
and the Section 415 Defined Benefit Restoration Benefit (the  Defined Benefits ) shall be paid in the same manner and shall commence on the same date that benefits commence under the applicable Qualified Defined Benefit Plan. In the
event of the death of a Participant either (i) prior to commencement of his Defined Benefits or (ii) after commencement of such benefits, but prior to final satisfaction of all such amounts under this Plan, Defined Benefits shall be paid
to an eligible survivor only if a death benefit is also payable to such survivor under the terms of the applicable Qualified Defined Benefit Plan (including payment under any optional form of payment elected by the Participant under such plan). If a
Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity is payable upon the Participant s death under the applicable Qualified Defined Benefit Plan, then any Defined Benefits payable under this Plan as a result of the Participant s death shall also be paid
in the form of a Qualified Joint and Survivor Annuity. Notwithstanding the above, the Administrative Committee, in its discretion, may determine that certain small monthly amounts of Defined Benefits shall be paid on a quarterly or annual basis,
rather than on a monthly basis.         
   -15-   

5.4  Non-Duplication of Benefits : The purpose of this Plan is to restore certain benefits which
would otherwise be lost under the Qualified Plans. The benefits payable under this Plan shall be coordinated to ensure that benefit reductions attributable to the Code Section 401(a)(17) Limitations and the Code Section 415 Limitations are
calculated to prevent duplication of benefits under this Plan. As pension payment amounts are adjusted annually under the Qualified Defined Benefit Plans to take into account cost of living adjustments prescribed by the Secretary of Treasury, the
amount of the Section 415 Defined Benefit Restoration Benefit shall be adjusted annually to reflect such changes.      5.5  STC Plan
Benefits : Notwithstanding any provisions of this Plan or the Prior Plan to the contrary, all STC Plan Benefits otherwise payable pursuant thereto shall not be so paid, but shall be payable instead pursuant to the STC Plan. To the extent that any
STC Plan Benefits are paid pursuant to this Plan, such benefits shall be deemed for all purposes to have been paid pursuant to the terms of the STC Plan. Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, this Plan shall be administered to
prevent duplication of any benefits paid under the STC Plan.       ARTICLE VI         ADMINISTRATION        6.1  Administration : The Plan shall be
administered, construed and interpreted by the Administrative Committee. The determinations by the Administrative Committee as to any disputed questions arising under the Plan, including questions concerning the Employees who are eligible to be
Participants in the Plan and the amounts of their benefits under the Plan, and the construction and interpretation by the Administrative Committee of any provision of the Plan, shall be final, conclusive and binding upon all persons including
Participants, their  
       
   -16-   

Beneficiaries and survivors, the Company, its stockholders and Employees, and the Employers. A member of the Administrative Committee who is also a
Participant in the Plan must abstain from voting on any matter relating specifically to his own benefits under the Plan.      6.2
 Expenses : The expenses of administering the Plan shall be borne by the Company.      6.3  Indemnification : The members of the
Administrative Committee and its agents shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from any and all loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by them in connection with or resulting from
any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which they may be a party or in which they may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under this Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by them in settlement (with the
Company s written approval) or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgement in any such action, suit, or proceeding. The foregoing provisions shall not be applicable to any person if the loss, cost, liability or expense is due to such
person s gross negligence or willful misconduct.      6.4  Non-Alienation of Benefits : Except by mutual agreement between the
Company and the Participant, any benefit payable under this Plan shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or charge, whether voluntary, involuntary, by operation of law or
otherwise, and any attempt at such shall be void, and any such benefit shall not in any way be subject to the debts, contract, liabilities, engagements, or torts of the person who shall be entitled to such to such benefit, nor shall it be subject to
attachment or legal process for or against such person.         
   -17-   

ARTICLE VII         MERGER, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION        71.  Merger, Consolidation or Acquisition : In the
event of a merger, consolidation or acquisition where an Employer is not the surviving corporation, unless the successor or acquiring corporation shall elect to continue and carry on the Plan, this Plan shall terminate with respect to such Employer,
and no additional benefits shall accrue for the Employees of such Employer. Unpaid vested benefits which have been accrued up to the date of the merger, consolidation or acquisition shall be paid as scheduled unless the successor or acquiring
corporation elects to accelerate payment.      7.2  Amendment and Termination : The Board of Directors may amend, modify, or terminate the
Plan in whole or in part at any time. In the event of a termination of the Plan pursuant to this Section, unpaid vested benefits shall continue to be an obligation of the Company or other applicable Employer and shall be paid as scheduled.
     7.3  Participating Affiliates : Any Affiliate that meets the definition of a Participating Affiliate or an Employer under a Qualified
Plan and that has any Employees whose benefits under such Qualified Plan are affected by the Code Section 401(a)(17) Limitations or the Code Section 415 Limitations shall be deemed to have adopted this Plan for the benefit of such eligible
Employees. Such Affiliate shall be bound as an Employer by all the terms, provisions, conditions, and limitations of the Plan and shall compile and submit all information required by the Company with reference to its Employees who are eligible for
participation in the Plan.         
   -18-   

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this instrument to be executed by its duly authorized officers
in a number of copies, each of which shall be deemed an original but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument, this ___ day of _______________, 1996, but effective as of the first day of January, 1995.        

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED    

By  

ATTEST:   

-19-   

</EX-10.2>

<EX-10.3>
 4
 dex103.htm
 SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED RESTORATION SAVINGS PLAN

Schlumberger Limited Restoration Savings Plan 

Exhibit 10.3        SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED        RESTORATION SAVINGS PLAN       (As Established Effective June 1, 1995,      and conformed to include amendments through January 1, 2009)   

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED        RESTORATION SAVINGS PLAN       (As Established Effective June 1, 1995,      and conformed to include amendments through January 1, 2009)       INDEX        

ARTICLE I  
        
  DEFINITIONS  
      
  2   

ARTICLE II  
        
  ELIGIBILITY  
      
  4   

ARTICLE III  
        
  PARTICIPATION  
      
  4   

ARTICLE IV  
        
  CONTRIBUTIONS  
      
  6   

ARTICLE V  
        
  ALLOCATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS AND INTEREST  
      
  7   

ARTICLE VI  
        
  VESTING  
      
  7   

ARTICLE VII  
        
  FORM AND TIMING OF PAYMENT  
      
  9   

ARTICLE VIII  
        
  MERGER, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION  
      
  10   

ARTICLE IX  
        
  ADMINISTRATION  
      
  10   

ARTICLE X  
        
  MISCELLANEOUS  
      
  11   

ARTICLE I        DEFINITIONS        Section 1.1  Account   shall mean the account maintained on behalf of each Participant
or Former Participant which reflects the Participant s or Former Participant s Elective Deferrals, Matching Contributions, if any, and Interest.       Section 1.2  Administrative Committee   shall mean the Administrative Committee of the Schlumberger Limited Pension Plan.       Section 1.3  Affiliate   shall mean any corporation in which the shares owned or controlled directly or indirectly by Schlumberger Limited shall represent eighty percent (80%) or more of the voting power of the issued
and outstanding capital stock of such corporation. Affiliate shall also include any corporation or other trade or business which, together with Schlumberger Limited, is  under common control  as determined in accordance with
Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code, as may be modified by Section 415(h) of the Code.       Section 1.4  Base Compensation   shall
mean Compensation, excluding any bonus or incentive payment.       Section 1.5  Beneficiary   shall mean the individual designated by a
Participant or Former Participant in accordance with Section 3.3 who is entitled to benefits under the Plan in the event of a Participant s or Former Participant s death.       Section 1.6  Board of Directors   shall mean the Board of Directors of Schlumberger Limited.       Section
1.7  Code   shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as may be amended.       Section 1.8  Compensation   shall mean the
aggregate amount of compensation paid by the Employer or an Affiliate to an Employee during a calendar year, including normal salary, wages, overtime compensation, commissions, bonuses and salary deferral amounts under Section 401(k) of the
Code, if any, and excluding:      (a) compensation for employment during any period in which an individual is not an Employee;
     (b) any special payment of compensation, including but not limited to, income arising pursuant to the exercise of a stock
option, field meal allowance, early retirement payments, severance payments, pay in lieu of vacation, tuition reimbursement, moving allowances;      (c) payment by the Employer on behalf of the Participant to this or any other qualified or non-qualified pension, profit sharing, savings or other employee benefit plan.       Section 1.9  Effective Date   shall mean June 1, 1995, the effective date of the Plan.         
   2   

Section 1.10  Elective Deferrals   shall mean the amount of Excess Compensation an Eligible Employee
elects to defer in accordance with Section 4.1 of the Plan.       Section 1.11  Eligible Employee   shall mean an Employee who is on a U.S.
based payroll or is seconded by an Employer to a foreign country and is on the payroll of Schlumberger Resources, Inc.       Section 1.12
 Employee   shall mean an employee of the Employer who is employed by and carried on the payroll of the Employer.       Section 1.13
 Employer   shall mean Schlumberger Limited and any Affiliate who has adopted the Plan for the benefit of its Eligible Employees.       Section
1.14  Enrollment Period   shall mean the 31 day period beginning May 1, 1995. Effective after June 1, 1995, Enrollment Period means the 30 day period beginning November 1, 1995 and each November 1 thereafter.
      Section 1.15  Excess Compensation   shall mean the amount of Compensation paid to an Employee during a calendar year in excess of
$150,000, as such amount may be adjusted in accordance with Section 401(a)(17) of the Code.       Section 1.16  Former Participant   means
an Employee of the Employer or an Affiliate who was a Participant and continues to have an Account under the Plan.       Section 1.17
 Interest   shall mean the amount of interest allocated to a Participant s Account. Such amount shall mirror the interest earnings of the Fixed Income Fund under the Schlumberger Master Profit Sharing Trust.       Section 1.18  Matching Contribution   shall mean the amount contributed by the Employer in accordance with Section 4.4.       Section 1.19  Participant   shall mean an Eligible Employee who meets the eligibility requirements of Section 2.2 and has commenced, but not
terminated, participation in the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Article III of the Plan.       Section 1.20  Plan   shall mean the
Schlumberger Limited Restoration Savings Plan as set forth herein and as may be amended.       Section 1.21  Plan Year   shall mean June 1,
1995 through December 31, 1995 and each calendar year thereafter.       Section 1.22  Trust   shall mean the Schlumberger Executive
Deferred Compensation Trust, a grantor trust.       Section 1.23  Vested   shall mean non-forfeitable.         
   3   

Unless the context of the document clearly provides otherwise, all masculine pronouns when used in the Plan shall be
deemed to include the feminine gender and any feminine pronouns shall be deemed to include the masculine gender.       ARTICLE II
       ELIGIBILITY        Section 2.1
Employer Determination       Each year, prior to the Enrollment Period, the Employer shall determine those Eligible Employees who may participate in the
Plan during the subsequent Plan Year. Such determination shall be made in accordance with the requirements set forth in Section 2.2.       Section 2.2
Eligibility Requirements       An Eligible Employee may participate in the Plan if such Eligible Employee is projected to have Excess Compensation in the
subsequent Plan Year. In determining whether an Eligible Employee is projected to have Excess Compensation, the Employer shall look to the Eligible Employee s Base Compensation for the then current calendar year and the maximum projected bonus
potential payable in the first quarter of the subsequent Plan Year based on the Employee s current grade and salary level. If the sum of the Eligible Employee s Base Compensation and the maximum projected bonus potential exceeds the
limitation set forth in Section 401(a)(17) of the Code, the Employee is eligible to participate in the Plan during the subsequent Plan Year.      The Plan
is intended to qualify for the exemptions provided under Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 for plans that are not tax-qualified and that are maintained primarily to provide deferred compensation for a select group of
management or highly compensated employees.       ARTICLE III        PARTICIPATION        Section 3.1 Commencement of Participation       During each Enrollment Period, an Eligible Employee who meets the requirements of Section 2.2 may elect to participate in the Plan by completing the necessary
deferral election forms. Such forms shall be provided to each Eligible Employee during the Enrollment Period by the Personnel Department of Schlumberger Limited.      In order to become effective, an Eligible Employee s deferral election must be filed with such employee s Personnel Department on or before the last day of the Enrollment Period. Any election filed after the Enrollment Period
shall not become effective.      An Eligible Employee who elects to participate within an Enrollment Period shall become a Participant on the first day of the
next following Plan Year.         
   4   

Section 3.2 Cessation of Participation       A Participant shall cease to be a Participant as of the earliest of: (i) the date on which the Plan terminates; (ii) the date on which the Participant is no longer an Eligible Employee; (iii) the first
day of any Plan Year in which the Participant fails to meet the eligibility requirements of Section 2.2; or (iv) the first day of any Plan Year in which the Participant does not elect to participate or fails to enroll within the applicable
Enrollment Period.      A Participant who ceases to be a Participant in accordance with (ii), (iii) or (iv) of the preceding paragraph shall become a
Former Participant if such Participant retains an Account under the Plan.       Section 3.3 Beneficiary Designation       Subject to the requirements of this Section 3.3, a Participant or Former Participant may designate, in writing, a Beneficiary who is entitled to receive the
benefits hereunder in the event of the Participant s or Former Participant s death.      The Beneficiary of a Participant or Former Participant who
is married is automatically the Participant s or Former Participant s spouse. A married Participant or Former Participant may designate a Beneficiary other than the spouse only if such spouse consents, in writing, to such designation. In
order to be effective, such spousal consent must (i) acknowledge the effect of waiving the benefit such spouse is otherwise entitled to receive; (ii) consent to the designated Beneficiary; (iii) acknowledge that the Beneficiary
designation is not valid unless the spouse agrees to such designation and (iv) be witnessed by a notary public or authorized Plan representative.      A
Participant or Former Participant who is not married may designate any individual or person as Beneficiary.      A Beneficiary designation shall only become
effective upon receipt by the Personnel Department of the Employer. Any Beneficiary designation filed with the Employer shall supersede any prior designation on file upon receipt by the Employer.      In the absence of any Beneficiary designation, payments upon the death of the Participant or Former Participant shall be made to the first named Beneficiary or class of
Beneficiaries, of the following successive Beneficiaries who survive the Participant or Former Participant: (1) the surviving spouse, if any; (ii) one share to each child of the Participant or Former Participant, whether or not the child
is then living, except that the share of a deceased child of the Participant or Former Participant shall be divided, per stirpes, among the then living descendants of such deceased child; (iii) father and mother, equally, or to the survivor;
(iv) surviving brothers and sisters, equally; (v) a duly appointed executor or administrator of the Participant s or Former Participant s estate. For purposes of this paragraph,  child   children  or
 descendants  shall include legally adopted children.         
   5   

ARTICLE IV        CONTRIBUTIONS        Section 4.1 Elective Deferral Amounts       Except as provided in Section 4.2, an Eligible Employee may irrevocably elect to defer, in any whole percentage, an amount from 1% to 15% of such Eligible
Employee s Excess Compensation.      A Participant s Elective Deferral shall go into effect as of the first payroll period in which such Participant
receives Excess Compensation and shall remain in effect throughout the Plan Year. A Participant may change an Elective Deferral only as provided in Section 4.3.      Elective Deferrals shall be paid to the Trust as soon as practicable following the payroll period in which such amount would have been payable to the Participant in cash, but for such Participant s election to
defer.       Section 4.2 Special Rule for Short Plan Year       Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 4.1, in the event a Participant s Compensation from January 1, 1995 through May 31, 1995 exceeds the limitation of Section 401(a)(17) as of the Effective Date, such
Participant may elect to defer up to 15% of Excess Compensation during the initial Plan Year, provided that such amount does not exceed 10% of the Participant s Excess Compensation on an annualized basis for such Plan Year.       Section 4.3 Changing Elective Deferrals       A Participant may increase
an Elective Deferral only during the Enrollment Period.      A Participant may decrease or cease an Elective Deferral as of the first day of any calendar
quarter by filing written notice of such change with such Participant s Employer. Such change shall only become effective if written notice is received at least 30 days prior to the first day of the calendar quarter in which such change is to
occur and the Participant s service giving rise to such Excess Compensation has not yet occurred.       Section 4.4 Matching Contributions
      Each Year following the close of the Plan Year, the Employer shall determine the Matching Contribution.      The Matching Contribution shall be equal to 50% of the first 6% of each Participant s Elective Deferrals made during the preceding Plan Year, provided that the
Participant continues to be employed by the Employer or an Affiliate on the last day of such Plan Year. Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, in any Plan Year in which the Employer is not profitable, as determined in the sole discretion of the
Employer, such Matching Contribution shall be zero.         
   6   

Matching Contributions shall be paid to the Trust by the Employer as soon as practicable following the determination of
such amount on behalf of all Participants who are eligible to receive a Matching Contribution for the Plan Year. Matching Contributions shall be allocated to a Participant s account in accordance with Section 5.2.       ARTICLE V        ALLOCATION OF
CONTRIBUTIONS AND INTEREST        Section 5.1 Allocation of Elective Deferrals       As of each calendar quarter, the Employer shall allocate the Elective Deferrals made during such quarter to a Participant s Account. Such amount shall be credited with Interest as of the last day of the calendar
quarter following the calendar quarter in which the Elective Deferral was made. Interest shall be allocated in accordance with Section 5.3.       Section 5.2 Allocation of Matching Contributions       As of the end of each Plan Year, the Employer shall allocate the Matching Contribution,
if any, among the Accounts of Participants or Former Participants who made Elective Deferrals during the Plan Year, provided that the Participant or Former Participant continues to be an Employee of the Employer or an Affiliate on the last day of
the Plan Year.      Matching Contributions shall be credited with Interest for the year in which such contribution was actually made, as if such amount had
been paid to the Trust on the first day of such year. Interest shall be allocated in accordance with Section 5.3.       Section 5.3 Allocation of
Interest       Interest shall be allocated to a Participant s or Former Participant s Account as of the last day of each calendar quarter. Such
amount shall be allocated based on the amount then standing in such Account.       ARTICLE VI        VESTING        Section 6.1 Vesting       Subject to the provisions of Section 6.2, a Participant, or Former Participant shall have a Vested right to benefits in accordance with this Section 6.1:
     (a) A Participant or Former Participant shall be 100% Vested in their Elective Deferrals, plus any Interest thereon, at all
times.         
   7   

(b) A Participant or Former Participant shall have a Vested right to Matching
Contributions allocated to such Participant s or Former Participant s Account, plus any Interest thereon, in accordance with the following schedule:       
     Service  shall include any period of  Active Service  as such term is defined
under the Schlumberger Limited Savings and Profit Sharing Plan.      (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of (b) above, a
Participant or Former Participant shall become 100% Vested in the event of death, attainment of age 60, termination of the Plan or a  change in control .      For purposes of this paragraph (c), a  change in control  shall mean a change in the ownership or control of the Employer such that any one person, or more than one person acting as a group, acquires or
holds stock representing more than 50 percent of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Employer.      For
purposes of the preceding paragraph, persons will not be considered to be  acting as a group  merely because they happen to purchase or own stock of the Employer at the same time, or as a result of the same public offering. However,
persons will be considered to be  acting as a group  if they are owners of an entity that enters into a merger, consolidation, purchase or acquisition of stock, or other similar business transaction with the Employer.       Section 6.2 Violation of Confidential Agreements       Notwithstanding
the provisions of Section 6.1, a Participant or Former Participant shall forfeit any Vested right to such Participant s or Former Participant s Account in the event it is determined by the Administrative Committee that such
Participant or Former Participant has engaged in a dishonest act injurious to the finances or reputation of the Employer or any of its Affiliates or that such Participant or Former Participant has violated a Patent and Confidential Information
Agreement between such individual and the Employer or any of its Affiliates or any other confidential arrangement involving the Employer or any of its Affiliates to which such individual is a party or by which such individual is bound.   
   Section 6.3 Right to Account in the Event of Bankruptcy       Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, in the event the Employer is determined to be insolvent or is subject to a pending proceeding as a debtor under the United States Bankruptcy Code, a Vested Participant or Vested
Former Participant shall have the same standing as any other general creditor of the Employer and shall be entitled to recover any benefits then standing in such Participant s or Former Participant s Vested Account only to the extent such
amount is made available to such individual in accordance with the bankruptcy proceedings as determined by the federal courts. the Employer will be considered  insolvent  for purposes of the Plan if the Employer is unable to pay its debts
as they become due.         
   8   

ARTICLE VII        FORM AND TIMING OF PAYMENT        Section 7.1 Form of Payment       Payment of a Participant s or Former Participant s Account shall be made in a single lump sum cash payment. No other forms of payment are available under the
Plan.       Section 7.2 Timing of Benefit Payment       A
Participant or Former Participant (or, if applicable, the Beneficiary of such Participant or Former Participant) shall receive a distribution of the Vested portion of his Account in the event such Participant or Former Participant dies, retires,
separates from service for any reason or becomes disabled. Payment shall be made as soon as practicable following the close of the calendar quarter immediately following a Participant s or Former Participant s death, retirement, separation
from service or disability, whichever occurs first, subject to the requirement of (a) and (b) below.      (a) For
purposes of determining whether a Participant or Former Participant has separated from service, a Participant or Former Participant who continues to be paid from the payroll of the Employer, as a result of a continuing contractual agreement to
provide services to the Employer or an Affiliate for a specified period of time, shall not be deemed to have separated from service until the termination of such period or, if earlier, until such Participant or Former Participant commences to
receive benefit payments under a qualified defined benefit plan sponsored by the Employer or an Affiliate.      (b) Payment to a
Participant or Former Participant as a result of disability shall be made in the calendar quarter immediately following the date such individual ceases to be covered under the Employer s, or, if applicable, an Affiliate s, salary
continuance program. Salary continuance shall include those programs sponsored by the Employer or an Affiliate that provide for the continuation of salary during a period of short-term disability in which the Employee continues to be carried on the
Employer s or Affiliate s payroll.      No payment shall be made from the Plan to a Participant or Former Participant while such Participant or
Former Participant is actively employed by the Employer or an Affiliate.      A Participant or Former Participant shall have no right to defer payment of
benefits to a date later than the date provided in this Section 7.2.         
   9   

ARTICLE VIII        MERGER, AMENDMENT AND TERMINATION        Section 8.1 Merger, Consolidation or Acquisition       In the event of a merger, consolidation or acquisition where the Employer is not the surviving corporation, the Plan shall terminate with respect to such Employer and no
further Elective Deferrals shall be made to the Plan by any Participant or other Eligible Employee of such Employer. Any amount then standing in a Vested Account shall be paid as soon as practicable following such merger, consolidation or
acquisition.       Section 8.2 Amendment and Termination       The Board of Directors may amend, modify or terminate the Plan in whole or in part at any time. In the event the Plan is terminated, any unpaid Vested Accounts shall immediately become due and payable and shall be distributed as soon as
practicable following termination of the Plan, but in no event later than the last day of the calendar year in which such termination occurs.       ARTICLE IX        ADMINISTRATION        Section 9.1 Administration       The Plan shall be administered, construed and interpreted by the Administrative Committee. Any determination
made by the Administrative Committee, including any determination as to eligibility, the amount of benefits or the interpretation of any Plan provision, shall be conclusive and binding on all persons, including a Participant, a Former Participant, a
Beneficiary, the Employer, an Affiliate or an Employee. A member of the Administrative Committee who is also a Participant or Former Participant in the Plan must abstain from voting on any matter relating specifically to such Participant s or
Former Participant s own Account under the Plan.       Section 9.2 Expenses       Expenses of the Plan may be paid by the Trust unless otherwise paid by the Employer.       Section 9.3 Indemnification  
     The members of the Administrative Committee, or any agent appointed by said Committee, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Employer against and
from any and all losses, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by such persons in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit or proceeding to which any such person may be party by their reason to
act or not act under the Plan and against and from any and all amounts paid by such persons in settlement (with the Employer s written approval) or paid by such persons in satisfaction of a judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding. The
provisions of this Section 9.3 shall not apply to any person if such loss, cost, liability or expense is due to such person s gross negligence or willful misconduct.       Section 9.4 Non-Alienation of Benefits       Except as provided in Section 6.3, or by mutual agreement between the
Employer and any Participant or Former Participant, benefits payable under the Plan shall not be subject, in any manner, to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge,  
       
   10   

whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, and any attempt at such shall be void; and further provided, that any such benefit shall
not in any way be subject to the debts, contract, liabilities, engagements or torts of the person who shall be entitled to such benefit, nor shall it be subject to attachment or legal process for or against such person.       ARTICLE X        MISCELLANEOUS
       Section 10.1 Applicable Law       The Plan shall be
governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York.       Section 10.2 Plan not an Employment Contract       The Plan is not, nor shall it be construed to be, an employment contract between the Employer or an Affiliate and an Employee. The receipt of benefits hereunder does not
give any person the right to be continued in the employ of the Employer or an Affiliate, and all Employees remain subject to change of salary, transfer, change of job, discipline, layoff, discharge (with or without cause) or any other change of
employment status.       Section 10.3 Source of Payment       The benefits payable under the Plan are an obligation and liability of the applicable Employer. Amounts paid under the Plan shall be paid in cash from the Trust, but only to the extent the amount then standing in the Trust and allocated to
a Participant s or Former Participant s Account has been paid to the Trust. Amounts not paid from the Trust shall be paid from the general assets of the applicable Employer.      No Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary shall have any right, title or interest whatever in or to any investment reserves, accounts, funds or assets that the Employer may purchase, establish or accumulate to
aid in providing the benefits described under the Plan. Nothing contained in the Plan, and no action taken pursuant to its provisions, shall create or be construed to create a fiduciary relationship of any kind between the Employer or an Affiliate
and a Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary.      A Participant, Former Participant or Beneficiary shall not acquire any interest under the Plan
greater than that of an unsecured creditor.       Section 10.4 Tax Withholding       The Employer shall withhold from any payment any federal, state or local taxes required by law to be withheld with respect to such payment and such sums as the Employer may reasonably estimate as necessary to cover
any taxes for which the Employer may be liable and which may be assessed with regard to such payment.         
   11   

Section 10.5 Severability       In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held invalid or illegal, either in whole or in part, for any reason, then any such provision shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had never been included in the Plan and the
Employer shall have the right to correct or remedy any such provision by amendment to the Plan.      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Employer has caused this
instrument to be executed by its duly authorized officers in multiple copies, each of which shall be deemed an origin but all of which shall constitute one and the same instrument, this        day of
                  , 1996, but effective as of the first day of June, 1995.        

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED    

By    

ATTEST :   

[SEAL]    
       
   12   

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.4>
 5
 dex104.htm
 SCHLUMBERGER 1998 STOCK OPTION PLAN

Schlumberger 1998 Stock Option Plan 

Exhibit 10.4        SCHLUMBERGER 1998 STOCK OPTION PLAN        (As Established Effective January 21, 1998,
       and conformed to include amendments through January 1, 2009)        

1.   
   Purpose of the Plan         This Stock Option Plan (the
 Plan ) is intended as an incentive to key employees of Schlumberger Limited (the  Company ) and its subsidiaries. Its purposes are to retain employees with a high degree of training, experience and ability, to attract new
employees whose services are considered unusually valuable, to encourage the sense of proprietorship of such persons and to stimulate the active interest of such persons in the development and financial success of the Company.       

2.   
   Administration of the Plan         (a) The Board of
Directors shall appoint and maintain a Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) which shall consist of at least three (3) members of the Board of Directors, none of whom is an officer or employee of the Company, who shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board. The Committee may from time to time grant incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options ( Stock Options ) under the Plan to the persons described in Section 3 hereof. No member of such Committee shall
be eligible to receive Stock Options under this Plan during his or her tenure on the Committee. Members of the Committee shall be subject to any additional restrictions necessary to satisfy the definition of  Non-Employee Director  as set
forth in Rule 16b-3 under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Act ) as it may be amended from time to time.      (b) The Committee shall have full power and authority to interpret the provisions of the Plan and supervise its administration. All decisions and selections made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be made by a
majority of its members. Any decision reduced to writing and signed by a majority of the members shall be fully effective as if adopted by a majority at a meeting duly held. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have full and
final authority to determine the persons to whom Stock Options hereunder shall be granted, the number of shares to be covered by each Stock Option except that no optionee may be granted options for more than 1,000,000 shares during the life of the
Plan, and whether such Stock Option shall be designated an  incentive stock option  or a  non-qualified stock option.       (c) No member of the Committee shall be liable for anything done or omitted to be done by him or by her or any other member of the Committee in connection with the Plan, except for his or her own willful misconduct or as expressly provided
by statute.      (d) If the exercise period of an outstanding Stock Option is continued following a holder s termination of employment as
provided in Section 5, and the holder engages in  detrimental activity  as described in Section 5, the Committee shall have the authority in its discretion to cause such option to be forfeited and certain option exercises
thereunder to be rescinded as provided for in Section 5.   

3.   
   Grants of Stock Options         (a) The persons eligible
for participation in the Plan as recipients of Stock Options shall include only employees of the Company or its subsidiary corporations as defined in Section 424(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended from time to time (the
 Code ), and hereinafter referred to as  subsidiaries  who are executive, administrative, professional or technical personnel who have responsibilities affecting the management, direction, development and financial success of the
Company or its subsidiaries. No Director of the Company who is not also an employee is eligible to participate in the Plan, nor is any employee who owns directly or indirectly stock possessing more than five percent (5%) of the total combined
voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or any subsidiary. An employee may receive more than one grant of Stock Options at the Committee s discretion including simultaneous grants of different forms of Stock Options.
     (b) The Committee in granting Stock Options hereunder shall have discretion to determine the terms and conditions upon which such Stock
Options may be exercisable. Each grant of a Stock Option shall be confirmed by an Agreement consistent with this Plan which shall be executed by the Company and by the person to whom such Stock Option is granted. Except in the case of death or
disability (as described in Section 5(c)(iv)(B) or 5(c)(v)(B)), no Stock Option shall vest or become exercisable with respect to any portion of the shares of Common Stock thereunder unless and until the recipient remains in the employment of
the Company or a subsidiary for a period of at least one (1) year from the date of grant of the option (which provision shall not be construed to impair in any way the right of the Company or subsidiary to terminate such employment). For the
avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the provisions of the preceding sentence apply to any Stock Option held by an optionee whose employment terminated due to death or disability prior to January 17, 2008.      (c) For purposes of this Plan, employment with the Company shall include employment with any subsidiary of the Company, and Stock Options granted under
this Plan shall not be affected by an employee s transfer of employment from the Company to a subsidiary, from a subsidiary to the Company or between subsidiaries.      (d) The purchase price of the shares as to which a Stock Option is exercised shall be paid in full at the time of the exercise subject to such rules, procedures and restrictions as the Committee may prescribe from
time to time: (i) in cash or by certified check; (ii) by the delivery of shares of Schlumberger Common Stock with a fair market value (as determined according to Section 5(b) of the Plan) at the time of exercise equal to the total
option price; or (iii) by a combination of the methods described in (i) and (ii).       

4.   
   Shares Subject to the Plan         Subject to adjustment
as provided in Section 8 hereof, there shall be subject to the Plan 12,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the  Shares ). The Shares subject to the Plan shall consist of authorized and unissued
shares or previously issued shares reacquired and held by the Company or any subsidiary. Should any Stock Option expire or be terminated prior to its exercise in full and prior to the termination of the Plan, the Shares theretofore subject to such
Stock Option shall be available for further grants under the  
       
   2   

Plan. Until termination of the Plan, the Company and/or one or more subsidiaries shall at all times make available a sufficient number of Shares to meet the
requirements of the Plan. After termination of the Plan, the number of Shares reserved for purposes of the Plan from time to time shall be only such number of Shares as are issuable under then outstanding Stock Options.       

5.   
   Terms of Stock Options         (a) Stock Options granted
under this Plan which are designated as  incentive stock options  may be granted with respect to any number of Shares, subject to the limitation that the aggregate fair market value of such Shares (determined in accordance with
Section 5(b) of the Plan at the time the option is granted) with respect to which such options are exercisable for the first time by an employee during any one calendar year (under all such plans of the Company and any subsidiary of the
Company) shall not exceed $100,000. To the extent that the aggregate fair market value of Shares with respect to which incentive stock options (determined without regard to this subsection) are exercisable for the first time by any employee during
any calendar year (under all plans of the employer corporation and its parent and subsidiary corporations) exceeds $100,000, such options shall be treated as options which are not incentive stock options. No Stock Options shall be granted pursuant
to the Plan after January 21, 2008.      (b) The purchase price of each Share subject to a Stock Option shall be determined by the
Committee prior to granting a Stock Option. The Committee shall set the purchase price for each Share at either the fair market value (the  Fair Market Value ) of each Share on the date the Stock Option is granted, or at such other price
as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine, but not less than one hundred percent (100%) of such Fair Market Value. After it is granted, no Stock Option may be amended to decrease the purchase price and no Stock Option may be
granted in substitution for an outstanding Stock Option with a purchase price lower than the purchase price of an outstanding Stock Option. The Fair Market Value of a Share on a particular date shall be deemed to be the mean between the highest and
lowest composite sales price per share of the Common Stock in the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Quotations, as reported for that date, or, if there shall have been no such reported prices for that date, the reported mean price on
the last preceding date on which a composite sale or sales were effected on one or more of the exchanges on which the Shares were traded shall be the Fair Market value.      (c) (i) Subject to the requirements of Section 3(b), each Stock Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable in one or more installments (annual or other) on such date or dates as the Committee may in its sole
discretion determine and communicate to the optionee in communicating the grant of the option, provided that no Stock Option may be exercised after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date such option is granted (the maximum term
established by the Committee with respect to a particular Stock Option is hereinafter referred to as the  Option Period ). For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the provisions of this Section 5(c)(i) apply to any Stock Option
held by an optionee whose employment terminated due to death or disability prior to January 17, 2008.      (ii) Except as
provided in paragraph (e) below, the right to purchase Shares shall be cumulative so that when the right to purchase any Shares has accrued such Shares or any part thereof may be purchased at any time thereafter until the expiration or
termination of the Stock Option.         
   3   

(iii) At any time after the granting of any such Stock Option, the Committee may
accelerate the installment exercise dates (subject, however, to any applicable limitations concerning options designated  incentive stock options ).      (iv) Termination of Employment and Subsequent Events.      (A) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated with the consent of the Company and provided such employment is not
terminated for cause (of which the Committee shall be the sole judge), the Committee may permit such Stock Option to be exercised by such optionee at any time during the period of three (3) months after such termination or the remainder of the
Option Period whichever is less, provided that such option may be exercised only to the extent it was exercisable on the date of such termination.      (B) In the event an optionee dies while in the employ of the Company, any outstanding Stock Option shall automatically become fully vested and exercisable by the person or persons entitled thereto under the
optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution during the  Post-Death Exercise Period.  The Post-Death Exercise Period shall commence on the date of the optionee s death and shall end sixty (60) months thereafter or
the remainder of the Option Period whichever is less.      (C) In the event an optionee dies after termination of employment but
prior to the exercise in full of any Stock Option which was exercisable on the date of such termination, such option may be exercised before expiration of its term by the person or persons entitled thereto under the optionee s will or the laws
of descent and distribution during the Post-Death Exercise Period to the extent exercisable by the optionee at the date of death. For purposes of this Section 5(c)(iv)(C), the Post-Death Exercise Period shall commence on the date of the
optionee s termination of employment and shall end sixty (60) months thereafter or the remainder of the Option Period whichever is less.      (D) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated without the consent of the Company for any reason other than the death of the optionee, or if the optionee s employment with the Company is
terminated for cause, his or her rights under any then outstanding Stock Option shall terminate immediately. The Committee shall be the sole judge of whether the optionee s employment is terminated without the consent of the Company or for
cause.      (E) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the optionee engages in  detrimental activity  (as hereinafter
defined) within one year after termination of employment for any reason other than retirement or disability, the Committee, in its discretion, may cause the optionee s right to exercise such option to be forfeited. Such forfeiture may occur at
any time after the Committee determines  
       
   4   

that the optionee has engaged in detrimental activity and prior to the actual delivery of all shares of Common Stock subject to the option pursuant to the
exercise of such option. If an allegation of detrimental activity by an optionee is made to the Committee, the Committee, in its discretion, may suspend the exercisability of the optionee s options for up to two months to permit the
investigation of such allegation. In addition, if the optionee engages in detrimental activity within one year following termination of employment for any reason other than retirement or disability, the Committee, in its discretion, may rescind any
option exercise made within the period commencing six months preceding the date of the optionee s termination of employment and ending three months following such termination. For purposes of this Section 5,  detrimental
activity  means activity that is determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion to be detrimental to the interests of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, including but not limited to situations where such optionee:
(1) divulges trade secrets of the Company, proprietary data or other confidential information relating to the Company or to the business of the Company and any subsidiaries, (2) enters into employment with a competitor under circumstances
suggesting that such optionee will be using unique or special knowledge gained as a Company employee to compete with the Company, (3) uses information obtained during the course of his or her prior employment for his or her own purposes, such
as for the solicitation of business, (4) is determined to have engaged (whether or not prior to termination) in either gross misconduct or criminal activity harmful to the Company, or (5) takes any action that harms the business interests,
reputation, or goodwill of the Company and/or its subsidiaries.      For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the provisions of this
Section 5(c)(iv) apply to any Stock Option held by an optionee whose employment terminated due to death or disability prior to January 17, 2008.      (v) Retirement, Disability and Subsequent Events.      (A) If the optionee s employment
with the Company is terminated due to retirement (within the meaning of any prevailing pension plan in which such optionee is a participant), such Stock Option shall be exercisable by such optionee at any time during the period of sixty
(60) months after such termination or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less (the  Retirement Exercise Period ), provided that such option may be exercised after such termination and before expiration only to the extent
that it is exercisable on the date of such termination.      (B) If the optionee s employment with the Company is
terminated due to disability, such Stock Option shall automatically become fully vested and exercisable. Such optionee may exercise the outstanding Stock Option at any time during (1) in the case of Stock Options intended to be incentive stock
options within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and granted prior to January 17, 2008, the period of three (3) months after such termination or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less, or (2) in the case of
all other Stock Options, the  
       
   5   

period of sixty (60) months after such termination or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less (the  Disability Exercise
Period ). For purposes of this Section 5(c)(v),  disability  shall mean such disability (whether through physical or mental impairment) which totally and permanently incapacitates the optionee from any gainful employment in any
field which the optionee is suited by education, training, or experience, as determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion.      (C) In the event an optionee dies during the Retirement Exercise Period or the Disability Exercise Period, such Stock Option may be exercised by the person or persons entitled thereto under the optionee s will or
the laws of descent and distribution to the extent exercisable by the optionee at the date of death and to the extent the term of the Option Period has not expired within such Retirement Exercise Period or Disability Exercise Period.      (D) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the optionee engages in  detrimental activity  (as defined in Section 5(c)(iv)(E))
within five years after termination of employment by reason of retirement or disability, the Committee, in its discretion, may cause the optionee s right to exercise such option to be forfeited. Such forfeiture may occur at any time after the
Committee determines that the optionee has engaged in detrimental activity and prior to the actual delivery of all shares of Common Stock subject to the option pursuant to the exercise of such option. If an allegation of detrimental activity by an
optionee is made to the Committee, the Committee, in its discretion, may suspend the exercisability of the optionee s options for up to two months to permit the investigation of such allegation. In addition, if the optionee engages in
detrimental activity within five years following termination of employment by reason of retirement or disability, the Committee, in its discretion, may rescind any option exercise made within the period commencing six months preceding the date of
the optionee s termination of employment by retirement or disability and ending one year following such termination.      For the avoidance
of doubt, in no event shall the provisions of this Section 5(c)(v) apply to any Stock Option held by an optionee whose employment terminated due to death or disability prior to January 17, 2008.      (vi) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this paragraph (c), in no event may a Stock Option be exercised after the expiration of ten
(10) years from the date such Stock Option is granted.      (d) At the time of the grant of a Stock Option, the Committee may determine
that the Shares covered by such option shall be restricted as to transferability. If so restricted, such Shares shall not be sold, transferred or disposed of in any manner, and such Shares shall not be pledged or otherwise hypothecated until the
restriction expires by its terms. The circumstances under which any such restriction shall expire shall be determined by the Committee and shall be set forth in the Stock Option Agreement covering the grant of the option to purchase such Shares.
        
   6   

(e) The Committee shall designate whether a Stock Option is to be an  incentive stock option 
for purposes of Section 422 of the Code.       

6.   
   Assignability of Stock Options         Stock Options
granted under the Plan shall not be assignable or otherwise transferable by the recipient except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Otherwise, Stock Options granted under this Plan shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the
recipient (except as otherwise provided in the Plan or the applicable Agreement for Stock Options other than  incentive stock options ) only by the recipient for his or her individual account, and no purported assignment or transfer of
such Stock Options thereunder, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest in the purported assignee or transferee any interest or right therein whatsoever but immediately upon any such purported assignment or
transfer, or any attempt to make the same, such Stock Options thereunder shall terminate and become of no further effect.       
    The Committee may make such provisions and
rules as it may deem appropriate for the withholding of taxes in connection with any Stock Options granted under the Plan. An optionee, subject to such rules as the Committee may prescribe from time to time, may elect to satisfy all or any portion
of the tax required to be withheld by the Company in connection with the exercise of such option by electing to have the Company withhold a number of shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to or less than the amount required
to be withheld. An optionee s election pursuant to the preceding sentence must be made on or before the date of exercise and must be irrevocable.       

8.   
   Reorganizations and Recapitalizations of the Company         (a) The existence of this Plan and Stock Options granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Company or its stockholders to make or authorize any or all adjustments, recapitalizations, reorganizations or other
changes in the Company s capital structure or its business, or any merger or consolidation of the Company, or any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stocks ahead of or affecting the Shares or the rights thereof, or the
dissolution or liquidation of the Company, or any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business, or any other corporate act or proceeding, whether of a similar character or otherwise.      (b) Except as hereinafter provided, the issue by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any
class, for cash or property, or for labor or services, either upon direct sale or upon exercise of rights or warrants to subscribe therefor, or upon conversion of shares or obligations of the Company convertible into such shares or other securities,
shall not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number of Shares subject to Stock Options granted hereunder.      (c) The Shares with respect to which Stock Options may be granted hereunder are shares of the Common Stock of the Company as presently constituted, but if, and whenever, prior to the delivery by the Company or a
subsidiary of all of the Shares which are subject to the  
       
   7   

Stock Options or rights granted hereunder, the Company shall effect a subdivision or consolidation of shares or other capital readjustments, the payment of a
stock dividend or other increase or reduction of the number of shares of the Common Stock outstanding without receiving compensation therefor in money, services or property, the number of Shares subject to the Plan shall be proportionately adjusted
and the number of Shares with respect to which Stock Options granted hereunder may thereafter be exercised shall:      (i) in
the event of an increase in the number of outstanding shares, be proportionately increased, and the cash consideration (if any) payable per Share shall be proportionately reduced; and      (ii) in the event of a reduction in the number of outstanding shares, be proportionately reduced, and the cash consideration (if any)
payable per Share shall be proportionately increased.      (d) If the Company merges with one or more corporations, or consolidates with one or
more corporations and the Company shall be the surviving corporation, thereafter, upon any exercise of Stock Options granted hereunder, the recipient shall, at no additional cost (other than the option price, if any) be entitled to receive (subject
to any required action by stockholders) in lieu of the number of Shares as to which such Stock Options shall then be exercisable the number and class of shares of stock or other securities to which the recipient would have been entitled pursuant to
the terms of the agreement of merger or consolidation, if immediately prior to such merger or consolidation the recipient had been the holder of record of the number of shares of Common Stock of the Company equal to the number of Shares as to which
such Stock Options shall be exercisable. Upon any reorganization, merger or consolidation where the Company is not the surviving corporation or upon liquidation or dissolution of the Company, all outstanding Stock Options shall, unless provisions
are made in connection with such reorganization, merger or consolidation for the assumption of such Stock Options, be canceled by the Company as of the effective date of any such reorganization, merger or consolidation, or of any dissolution or
liquidation of the Company, by giving notice to each holder thereof or his or her personal representative of its intention to do so and by permitting the exercise during the thirty-day period next preceding such effective date of all Stock Options
which are outstanding as of such date, whether or not otherwise exercisable.       

9.   
   Registration under Securities Act of 1933 and Exchange Listing         It is intended that the Stock Options and Shares covered by the Plan will be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. At the time any Shares are issued or transferred to satisfy the exercise of a Stock
Option granted under the Plan, such Shares will have been listed (or listed subject to notice of issuance) on the New York Stock Exchange.       
    The appropriate officers of
the Company shall cause to be filed any reports, returns or other information regarding the Stock Options granted hereunder or any Shares issued pursuant to the exercise thereof or a payment made hereunder, as may be required by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any other applicable statute, rule or regulation.         
   8   

The Plan shall be effective
January 21, 1998, subject to approval within twelve (12) months from the effective date by the holders of a majority of the votes cast at a meeting. In the event the Plan is not so approved, the Plan shall automatically terminate and be of
no further force or effect. No Stock Options shall be granted pursuant to this Plan after January 21, 2008.       

12.   
   Amendment or Termination         The Board of Directors
may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan at any time insofar as permitted by law, but no amendment or alteration shall be made without the approval of the stockholders:      (a) if, except as contemplated by Section 8 of the Plan, the amendment would permit the decrease of the purchase price of a Stock Option after the grant of the Stock Option or grant to the holder of an
outstanding Stock Option, a new Stock Option with a lower purchase price in exchange for the outstanding Stock Option; or      (b) if and to
the extent such amendment requires stockholder approval under Section 422 of the Code (or any successor provision).      No amendment of the Plan shall
alter or impair any of the rights or obligations of any person, without his or her consent, under any option or right theretofore granted under the Plan.       

13.   
   Government Regulations         Notwithstanding any of the
provisions hereof or of any Stock Option granted hereunder, the obligation of the Company or any subsidiary to sell and deliver Shares under such Stock Option or to make cash payments in respect thereto shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules
and regulations and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required, and the recipient shall agree that he will not exercise or convert any option granted hereunder, and that the Company or any
subsidiary will not be obligated to issue any Shares or make any payments under any such option if the exercise thereof or if the issuance of such Shares or if the payment made shall constitute a violation by the recipient or the Company or any
subsidiary of any provision of any applicable law or regulation of any governmental authority.         
   9   

</EX-10.4>

<EX-10.5>
 6
 dex105.htm
 SCHLUMBERGER 2001 STOCK OPTION PLAN

Schlumberger 2001 Stock Option Plan 

Exhibit 10.5        SCHLUMBERGER 2001 STOCK OPTION PLAN        (As Established Effective February 16, 2001,
       and conformed to include amendments through January 1, 2009)        

1.   
   Purpose of the Plan         This Stock Option Plan (the
 Plan ) is intended as an incentive to key employees of Schlumberger Limited (the  Company ) and its subsidiaries. Its purposes are to retain employees with a high degree of training, experience and ability, to attract new
employees whose services are considered unusually valuable, to encourage the sense of proprietorship of such persons and to stimulate the active interest of such persons in the development and financial success of the Company.       

2.   
   Administration of the Plan         (a) The Board of
Directors shall appoint and maintain a Compensation Committee (the  Committee ) which shall consist of at least three (3) members of the Board of Directors, none of whom is an officer or employee of the Company, who shall serve at the
pleasure of the Board. The Committee may from time to time grant incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options ( Stock Options ) under the Plan to the persons described in Section 3 hereof. No member of such Committee shall
be eligible to receive Stock Options under this Plan during his or her tenure on the Committee. Members of the Committee shall be subject to any additional restrictions necessary to satisfy the definition of  Non-Employee Director  as set
forth in Rule 16b-3 under the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Act ) as it may be amended from time to time.      (b) The Committee shall have full power and authority to interpret the provisions of the Plan and supervise its administration. All decisions and selections made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be made by a
majority of its members. Any decision reduced to writing and signed by a majority of the members shall be fully effective as if adopted by a majority at a meeting duly held. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have full and
final authority to determine the persons to whom Stock Options hereunder shall be granted, the number of shares to be covered by each Stock Option except that no optionee may be granted options for more than 500,000 shares during the life of the
Plan, and whether such Stock Option shall be designated an  incentive stock option  or a  non-qualified stock option.       (c) No member of the Committee shall be liable for anything done or omitted to be done by him or by her or any other member of the Committee in connection with the Plan, except for his or her own willful misconduct or as expressly provided
by statute.      (d) If the exercise period of an outstanding Stock Option is continued following a holder s termination of employment as
provided in Section 5, and the holder engages in  detrimental activity  as described in Section 5, the Committee shall have the authority in its discretion to cause such option to be forfeited and certain option exercises
thereunder to be rescinded as provided for in Section 5.         
   1   

3.   
   Grants of Stock Options         (a) The persons eligible
for participation in the Plan as recipients of Stock Options shall include only employees of the Company or its subsidiary corporations as defined in Section 424(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended from time to time (the
 Code ), and hereinafter referred to as  subsidiaries  who are executive, administrative, professional or technical personnel who have responsibilities affecting the management, direction, development and financial success of the
Company or its subsidiaries. No Director of the Company who is not also an employee is eligible to participate in the Plan, nor is any employee who owns directly or indirectly stock possessing more than five percent (5%) of the total combined
voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or any subsidiary. An employee may receive more than one grant of Stock Options at the Committee s discretion including simultaneous grants of different forms of Stock Options.
     (b) The Committee in granting Stock Options hereunder shall have discretion to determine the terms and conditions upon which such Stock
Options may be exercisable. Each grant of a Stock Option shall be confirmed by an Agreement consistent with this Plan which shall be executed by the Company and by the person to whom such Stock Option is granted. Except in the case of death or
disability (as described in Section 5(c)(iv)(B) or 5(c)(v)(B)), no Stock Option shall vest or become exercisable with respect to any portion of the shares of Common Stock thereunder unless and until the recipient remains in the employment of
the Company or a subsidiary for a period of at least one (1) year from the date of grant of the option (which provision shall not be construed to impair in any way the right of the Company or subsidiary to terminate such employment). For the
avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the provisions of this preceding sentence apply to any Stock Option held by an optionee whose employment terminated due to death or disability prior to January 17, 2008.      (c) For purposes of this Plan, employment with the Company shall include employment with any subsidiary of the Company, and Stock Options granted under
this Plan shall not be affected by an employee s transfer of employment from the Company to a subsidiary, from a subsidiary to the Company or between subsidiaries.      (d) The purchase price of the shares as to which a Stock Option is exercised shall be paid in full at the time of the exercise subject to such rules, procedures and restrictions as the Committee may prescribe from
time to time: (i) in cash or by certified check; (ii) by the delivery of shares of Schlumberger Common Stock with a fair market value (as determined according to Section 5(b) of the Plan) at the time of exercise equal to the total
option price; or (iii) by a combination of the methods described in (i) and (ii).       

4.   
   Shares Subject to the Plan         Subject to adjustment
as provided in Section 8 hereof, there shall be subject to the Plan 9,000,000 shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company (the  Shares ). The Shares subject to the Plan shall consist of authorized and unissued
shares or previously issued shares reacquired and held by the Company or any subsidiary. Should any Stock Option expire or be terminated prior to its exercise in full and prior to the termination of the Plan, the Shares theretofore subject to such
Stock Option shall be available for further grants under the  
       
   2   

Plan. Until termination of the Plan, the Company and/or one or more subsidiaries shall at all times make available a sufficient number of Shares to meet the
requirements of the Plan. After termination of the Plan, the number of Shares reserved for purposes of the Plan from time to time shall be only such number of Shares as are issuable under then outstanding Stock Options.       

5.   
   Terms of Stock Options         (a) Stock Options granted
under this Plan which are designated as  incentive stock options  may be granted with respect to any number of Shares, subject to the limitation that the aggregate fair market value of such Shares (determined in accordance with
Section 5(b) of the Plan at the time the option is granted) with respect to which such options are exercisable for the first time by an employee during any one calendar year (under all such plans of the Company and any subsidiary of the
Company) shall not exceed $100,000. To the extent that the aggregate fair market value of Shares with respect to which incentive stock options (determined without regard to this subsection) are exercisable for the first time by any employee during
any calendar year (under all plans of the employer corporation and its parent and subsidiary corporations) exceeds $100,000, such options shall be treated as options which are not incentive stock options. No Stock Options shall be granted pursuant
to the Plan after January 17, 2011.      (b) The purchase price of each Share subject to a Stock Option shall be determined by the
Committee prior to granting a Stock Option. The Committee shall set the purchase price for each Share at either the fair market value (the  Fair Market Value ) of each Share on the date the Stock Option is granted, or at such other price
as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine, but not less than one hundred percent (100%) of such Fair Market Value. After it is granted, no Stock Option may be amended to decrease the purchase price and no Stock Option may be
granted in substitution for an outstanding Stock Option with a purchase price lower than the purchase price of an outstanding Stock Option. The Fair Market Value of a Share on a particular date shall be deemed to be the mean between the highest and
lowest composite sales price per share of the Common Stock in the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Quotations, as reported for that date, or, if there shall have been no such reported prices for that date, the reported mean price on
the last preceding date on which a composite sale or sales were effected on one or more of the exchanges on which the Shares were traded shall be the Fair Market value.      (c) (i) Subject to the requirements of Section 3(b), each Stock Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable in one or more installments (annual or other) on such date or dates as the Committee may in its sole
discretion determine and communicate to the optionee in communicating the grant of the option, provided that no Stock Option may be exercised after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date such option is granted (the maximum term
established by the Committee with respect to a particular Stock Option is hereinafter referred to as the  Option Period ). For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the provisions of this Section 5(c)(i) apply to any Stock Option
held by an optionee whose employment terminated due to death or disability prior to January 17, 2008.      (ii) Except as
provided in paragraph (e) below, the right to purchase Shares shall be cumulative so that when the right to purchase any Shares has accrued such Shares or any part thereof may be purchased at any time thereafter until the expiration or
termination of the Stock Option.         
   3   

(iii) At any time after the granting of any such Stock Option, the Committee may
accelerate the installment exercise dates (subject, however, to any applicable limitations concerning options designated  incentive stock options ).      (iv)  Termination of Employment and Subsequent Events .      (A) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated with the consent of the Company and provided such employment is not
terminated for cause (of which the Committee shall be the sole judge), the Committee may permit such Stock Option to be exercised by such optionee at any time during the period of three (3) months after such termination or the remainder of the
Option Period whichever is less, provided that such option may be exercised only to the extent it was exercisable on the date of such termination.      (B) In the event an optionee dies while in the employ of the Company, any outstanding Stock Option shall automatically become fully vested and exercisable by the person or persons entitled thereto under the
optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution during the  Post-Death Exercise Period.  The Post-Death Exercise Period shall commence on the date of the optionee s death and shall end sixty (60) months thereafter or
the remainder of the Option Period whichever is less.      (C) In the event an optionee dies after termination of employment but
prior to the exercise in full of any Stock Option which was exercisable on the date of such termination, such option may be exercised before expiration of its term by the person or persons entitled thereto under the optionee s will or the laws
of descent and distribution during the Post-Death Exercise Period to the extent exercisable by the optionee at the date of death. For purposes of this Section 5(c)(iv)(C), the Post-Death Exercise Period shall commence on the date of the
optionee s termination of employment and shall end sixty (60) months thereafter or the remainder of the Option Period whichever is less.      (D) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated without the consent of the Company for any reason other than the death of the optionee, or if the optionee s employment with the Company is
terminated for cause, his or her rights under any then outstanding Stock Option shall terminate immediately. The Committee shall be the sole judge of whether the optionee s employment is terminated without the consent of the Company or for
cause.      (E) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the optionee engages in  detrimental activity  (as hereinafter
defined) within one year after termination of employment for any reason other than retirement or disability, the Committee, in its discretion, may cause the optionee s right to exercise such option to be forfeited. Such forfeiture may occur at
any time after the Committee determines  
       
   4   

that the optionee has engaged in detrimental activity and prior to the actual delivery of all shares of Common Stock subject to the option pursuant to the
exercise of such option. If an allegation of detrimental activity by an optionee is made to the Committee, the Committee, in its discretion, may suspend the exercisability of the optionee s options for up to two months to permit the
investigation of such allegation. In addition, if the optionee engages in detrimental activity within one year following termination of employment for any reason other than retirement or disability, the Committee, in its discretion, may rescind any
option exercise made within the period commencing six months preceding the date of the optionee s termination of employment and ending three months following such termination. For purposes of this Section 5,  detrimental
activity  means activity that is determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion to be detrimental to the interests of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, including but not limited to situations where such optionee:
(1) divulges trade secrets of the Company, proprietary data or other confidential information relating to the Company or to the business of the Company and any subsidiaries, (2) enters into employment with a competitor under circumstances
suggesting that such optionee will be using unique or special knowledge gained as a Company employee to compete with the Company, (3) uses information obtained during the course of his or her prior employment for his or her own purposes, such
as for the solicitation of business, (4) is determined to have engaged (whether or not prior to termination) in either gross misconduct or criminal activity harmful to the Company, or (5) takes any action that harms the business interests,
reputation, or goodwill of the Company and/or its subsidiaries.      For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the
provisions of this Section 5(c)(iv) apply to any Stock Option held by an optionee whose employment terminated due to death or disability prior to January 17, 2008.      (v)  Retirement, Disability and Subsequent Events .      (A) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated due to retirement, such Stock Option shall be exercisable by such
optionee at any time during the period of sixty (60) months after such termination or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less (the  Retirement Exercise Period ), provided that such option may be exercised after such
termination and before expiration only to the extent that it is exercisable on the date of such termination. For purposes of this Section 5(c)(v),  retirement  shall mean termination of the optionee s employment with the Company
and all affiliates at or after (i) age 55 or (ii) age 50 and completion of at least 10 years of service with the Company and all affiliates.      (B) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated due to disability, such Stock Option shall automatically become fully vested and exercisable. Such optionee may exercise the outstanding Stock
Option at any time during (1) in the case of Stock Options intended to be incentive stock options within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and granted prior to January 17,  
       
   5   

2008, the period of three (3) months after such termination or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less, or (2) in the case of all
other Stock Options, the period of sixty (60) months after such termination or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less (the  Disability Exercise Period ). For purposes of this Section 5(c)(v),  disability 
shall mean such disability (whether through physical or mental impairment) which totally and permanently incapacitates the optionee from any gainful employment in any field which the optionee is suited by education, training, or experience, as
determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion.      (C) In the event an optionee dies during the Retirement
Exercise Period or the Disability Exercise Period, such Stock Option may be exercised by the person or persons entitled thereto under the optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution to the extent exercisable by the optionee at the
date of death and to the extent the term of the Option Period has not expired within such Retirement Exercise Period or Disability Exercise Period.      (D) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the optionee engages in  detrimental activity  (as defined in Section 5(c)(iv)(E)) within five years after termination of employment by reason of retirement or
disability, the Committee, in its discretion, may cause the optionee s right to exercise such option to be forfeited. Such forfeiture may occur at any time after the Committee determines that the optionee has engaged in detrimental activity and
prior to the actual delivery of all shares of Common Stock subject to the option pursuant to the exercise of such option. If an allegation of detrimental activity by an optionee is made to the Committee, the Committee, in its discretion, may suspend
the exercisability of the optionee s options for up to two months to permit the investigation of such allegation. In addition, if the optionee engages in detrimental activity within five years following termination of employment by reason of
retirement or disability, the Committee, in its discretion, may rescind any option exercise made within the period commencing six months preceding the date of the optionee s termination of employment by retirement or disability and ending one
year following such termination.      For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the provisions of this Section 5(c)(v)
apply to any Stock Option held by an optionee whose employment terminated due to death or disability prior to January 17, 2008.      (vi) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this paragraph (c), in no event may a Stock Option be exercised after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date such Stock Option is granted.      (d) At the time of the grant of a Stock Option, the Committee may determine that the Shares covered by such option shall be restricted as to
transferability. If so restricted, such Shares shall not be sold, transferred or disposed of in any manner, and such Shares shall not be pledged or otherwise hypothecated until the restriction expires by its terms. The circumstances under which any
such restriction shall expire shall be determined by the Committee and shall be set forth in the Stock Option Agreement covering the grant of the option to purchase such Shares.         
   6   

(e) The Committee shall designate whether a Stock Option is to be an  incentive stock option 
for purposes of Section 422 of the Code.       

6.   
   Assignability of Stock Options         Stock Options
granted under the Plan shall not be assignable or otherwise transferable by the recipient except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Otherwise, Stock Options granted under this Plan shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the
recipient (except as otherwise provided in the Plan or the applicable Agreement for Stock Options other than  incentive stock options ) only by the recipient for his or her individual account, and no purported assignment or transfer of
such Stock Options thereunder, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest in the purported assignee or transferee any interest or right therein whatsoever but immediately upon any such purported assignment or
transfer, or any attempt to make the same, such Stock Options thereunder shall terminate and become of no further effect.       
    The Committee may make such provisions and
rules as it may deem appropriate for the withholding of taxes in connection with any Stock Options granted under the Plan. An optionee, subject to such rules as the Committee may prescribe from time to time, may elect to satisfy all or any portion
of the tax required to be withheld by the Company in connection with the exercise of such option by electing to have the Company withhold a number of shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to or less than the amount required
to be withheld. An optionee s election pursuant to the preceding sentence must be made on or before the date of exercise and must be irrevocable.       

8.   
   Reorganizations and Recapitalizations of the Company         (a) The existence of this Plan and Stock Options granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Company or its stockholders to make or authorize any or all adjustments, recapitalizations, reorganizations or other
changes in the Company s capital structure or its business, or any merger or consolidation of the Company, or any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stocks ahead of or affecting the Shares or the rights thereof, or the
dissolution or liquidation of the Company, or any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business, or any other corporate act or proceeding, whether of a similar character or otherwise.      (b) Except as hereinafter provided, the issue by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any
class, for cash or property, or for labor or services, either upon direct sale or upon exercise of rights or warrants to subscribe therefor, or upon conversion of shares or obligations of the Company convertible into such shares or other securities,
shall not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number of Shares subject to Stock Options granted hereunder.         
   7   

(c) The Shares with respect to which Stock Options may be granted hereunder are shares of the Common
Stock of the Company as presently constituted, but if, and whenever, prior to the delivery by the Company or a subsidiary of all of the Shares which are subject to the Stock Options or rights granted hereunder, the Company shall effect a subdivision
or consolidation of shares or other capital readjustments, the payment of a stock dividend or other increase or reduction of the number of shares of the Common Stock outstanding without receiving compensation therefor in money, services or property,
the number of Shares subject to the Plan shall be proportionately adjusted and the number of Shares with respect to which Stock Options granted hereunder may thereafter be exercised shall:      (i) in the event of an increase in the number of outstanding shares, be proportionately increased, and the cash consideration (if any)
payable per Share shall be proportionately reduced; and      (ii) in the event of a reduction in the number of outstanding
shares, be proportionately reduced, and the cash consideration (if any) payable per Share shall be proportionately increased.      (d) If the
Company merges with one or more corporations, or consolidates with one or more corporations and the Company shall be the surviving corporation, thereafter, upon any exercise of Stock Options granted hereunder, the recipient shall, at no additional
cost (other than the option price, if any) be entitled to receive (subject to any required action by stockholders) in lieu of the number of Shares as to which such Stock Options shall then be exercisable the number and class of shares of stock or
other securities to which the recipient would have been entitled pursuant to the terms of the agreement of merger or consolidation, if immediately prior to such merger or consolidation the recipient had been the holder of record of the number of
shares of Common Stock of the Company equal to the number of Shares as to which such Stock Options shall be exercisable. Upon any reorganization, merger or consolidation where the Company is not the surviving corporation or upon liquidation or
dissolution of the Company, all outstanding Stock Options shall, unless provisions are made in connection with such reorganization, merger or consolidation for the assumption of such Stock Options, be canceled by the Company as of the effective date
of any such reorganization, merger or consolidation, or of any dissolution or liquidation of the Company, by giving notice to each holder thereof or his or her personal representative of its intention to do so and by permitting the exercise during
the thirty-day period next preceding such effective date of all Stock Options which are outstanding as of such date, whether or not otherwise exercisable.       

9.   
   Registration under Securities Act of 1933 and Exchange Listing         It is intended that the Stock Options and Shares covered by the Plan will be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. At the time any Shares are issued or transferred to satisfy the exercise of a Stock
Option granted under the Plan, such Shares will have been listed (or listed subject to notice of issuance) on the New York Stock Exchange.         
   8   

The appropriate officers of
the Company shall cause to be filed any reports, returns or other information regarding the Stock Options granted hereunder or any Shares issued pursuant to the exercise thereof or a payment made hereunder, as may be required by Section 13 or
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any other applicable statute, rule or regulation.       
    The Plan shall be effective
February 16, 2001, subject to approval within twelve (12) months from the effective date by the holders of a majority of the votes cast at a meeting. In the event the Plan is not so approved, the Plan shall automatically terminate and be
of no further force or effect. No Stock Options shall be granted pursuant to this Plan after February 16, 2011.       

12.   
   Amendment or Termination         The Board of Directors
may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan at any time insofar as permitted by law, but no amendment or alteration shall be made without the approval of the stockholders:      (a) if, except as contemplated by Section 8 of the Plan, the amendment would permit the decrease of the purchase price of a Stock Option after the grant of the Stock Option or grant to the holder of an
outstanding Stock Option, a new Stock Option with a lower purchase price in exchange for the outstanding Stock Option; or      (b) if and to
the extent such amendment requires stockholder approval under Section 422 of the Code (or any successor provision).      No amendment of the Plan shall
alter or impair any of the rights or obligations of any person, without his or her consent, under any option or right theretofore granted under the Plan.       

13.   
   Government Regulations         Notwithstanding any of the
provisions hereof or of any Stock Option granted hereunder, the obligation of the Company or any subsidiary to sell and deliver Shares under such Stock Option or to make cash payments in respect thereto shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules
and regulations and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required, and the recipient shall agree that he will not exercise or convert any option granted hereunder, and that the Company or any
subsidiary will not be obligated to issue any Shares or make any payments under any such option if the exercise thereof or if the issuance of such Shares or if the payment made shall constitute a violation by the recipient or the Company or any
subsidiary of any provision of any applicable law or regulation of any governmental authority.         
   9   

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.6>
 7
 dex106.htm
 SCHLUMBERGER 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

Schlumberger 2005 Stock Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.6              SCHLUMBERGER 2005 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        (As Amended and Restated Effective January 19, 2006,        and conformed to include amendments through January 1, 2009)              1.    Purpose of the Plan       This Stock Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ) is intended as an incentive to key employees of Schlumberger Limited (the  Company ) and its subsidiaries. Its purposes are to retain employees with a high degree of training, experience and ability, to attract
new employees whose services are considered unusually valuable, to encourage the sense of proprietorship of such persons and to promote the active interest of such persons in the development and financial success of the Company.             2.    Administration of the Plan       (a)  Compensation Committee .    The Board of Directors shall appoint and maintain a Compensation Committee (the
 Committee ) which shall consist of at least three (3) members of the Board of Directors, none of whom is an officer or employee of the Company, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board. No member of such Committee shall be
eligible to receive Awards under this Plan during his or her tenure on the Committee.      (b)  Committee
Powers .    The Committee shall have full power and authority to interpret the provisions of the Plan and supervise its administration. All decisions and selections made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan
shall be made by a majority of its members; provided, however, that the Committee may delegate its authority to grant awards hereunder to the chairperson of the Committee or any other member of the Committee to act in his or her absence, subject to
such terms, conditions and limitations as the Committee may prescribe in its discretion. Any decision reduced to writing and signed by a majority of the members shall be fully effective as if adopted by a majority at a meeting duly held. The
Committee may from time to time grant incentive stock options and non-qualified stock options ( Stock Options ) and restricted stock and restricted stock units ( Stock Awards ) under the Plan to the persons described in
Section 3 hereof. Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have full and final authority to determine the persons to whom Stock Options and Stock Awards (collectively referred to as  Awards ) hereunder shall be
granted, the number of shares to be covered by each Award except that no participant may be granted options for more than 1,500,000 shares of common stock (after giving effect to the 2-for-1 stock split ( stock split ) announced by the
Company on January 19, 2006) during the life of the Plan, whether each Stock Option shall be designated an  incentive stock option  or a  non-qualified stock option,  and all other terms of each Award consistent with the
provisions of this Plan. If the exercise period of an outstanding Stock Option is continued following a holder s termination of employment as provided in Section 5, and the holder engages in  detrimental activity  as described in
Section 5, the Committee shall have the authority in its discretion to cause such option to be forfeited and certain option exercises thereunder to be rescinded as provided for in Section 5.      (c)  Committee Liability .    No member of the Committee shall be liable for anything done or omitted to be done by him or by her
or any other member of the Committee in connection with the Plan, except for his or her own willful misconduct or as expressly provided by statute.             3.    Grants of Awards       (a)
 Eligibility for Awards .    The persons eligible for participation in the Plan as recipients of Awards shall include only employees of the Company or its subsidiary corporations as defined in Section 424(f) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended from time to time (the  Code ), and hereinafter referred to as  subsidiaries,  who are executive, administrative, professional or technical personnel who have responsibilities affecting
the management, direction, development and financial success of the Company or its subsidiaries. No Director of the Company who is not also an employee is eligible to participate in the Plan, nor is any employee who owns directly or indirectly stock
possessing more than five percent (5%) of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or any subsidiary. An employee may receive more than one grant of Awards at the Committee s discretion including
simultaneous grants of different forms of Awards.      (b)  Discretion in and Documentation of Awards .    The
Committee in granting Awards hereunder shall have discretion to determine the terms and conditions upon which such Awards may vest and become exercisable, subject to and as further described in Section 5 and 6 of this Plan. Each grant of an
Award shall  
       
   1   

be communicated, in the form and manner decided by the Committee, to the person to whom such Award is granted. In addition, the Committee may require that
the grant be confirmed by an agreement, and may require that the optionee execute such agreement.      (c)  Form of
Awards .    Awards may be granted in the following forms:      (i) a Stock Option, in accordance with
Section 5, or      (ii) a Stock Award in accordance with Section 6, or      (iii) a combination of the foregoing.      (d)  Employment for Plan Purposes .    For purposes of this Plan, employment with the Company shall include employment with any subsidiary of the Company, and Awards granted under this Plan shall not be affected by
an employee s transfer of employment from the Company to a subsidiary, from a subsidiary to the Company or between subsidiaries.      (e)
 Payment of Purchase Price for Stock Options .    The purchase price of the shares of Common Stock as to which a Stock Option is exercised shall be paid in full at the time of the exercise subject to such rules, procedures
and restrictions as the Committee may prescribe from time to time: (i) in cash or by certified check; (ii) by the tender or delivery of shares of Schlumberger common stock with a Fair Market Value (as determined according to
Section 5(b) of the Plan) at the time of exercise equal to the total option price; or (iii) by a combination of the methods described in (i) and (ii).             4.    Shares of Common Stock Subject to the Plan       Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 8 hereof, there shall be subject to the Plan 18,000,000 shares of common stock (after giving effect to the stock split), par value $0.01 per share, of the Company
( Common Stock ). All of the shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance may be issued pursuant to Stock Options. No more than 3,000,000 shares of Common Stock (after to giving effect to the stock split) of the shares authorized shall
be available for the Stock Awards. The shares of Common Stock subject to the Plan shall consist of authorized and unissued shares or previously issued shares reacquired and held by the Company or any subsidiary. Until termination of the Plan, the
Company and/or one or more subsidiaries shall at all times make available a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to meet the requirements of the Plan. After termination of the Plan, the number of shares of Common Stock reserved for purposes
of the Plan from time to time shall be only such number of shares of Common Stock as are issuable under then outstanding Awards.      The number
of shares of Common Stock that are the subject of Awards under this Plan that are forfeited or terminated or expire unexercised shall not count against the aggregate plan maximum and shall again immediately become available for grants hereunder.
Shares of Common Stock of Common Stock delivered under the Plan in settlement of an award issued or made (a) upon the assumption, substitution, conversion or replacement of outstanding awards under a plan or arrangement of an acquired entity or
(b) as a post-transaction grant under such a plan or arrangement of an acquired entity shall not reduce or be counted against the maximum number of shares of Common Stock available for delivery under the Plan, to the extent that the exemption
for transactions in connection with mergers and acquisitions from the shareholder approval requirements of the New York Stock Exchange for equity compensation plans applies. The Committee may from time to time adopt and observe such rules and
procedures concerning the counting of shares of Common Stock against the Plan maximum as it may deem appropriate, including rules more restrictive than those set forth above to the extent necessary to satisfy the requirements of any national
securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or any applicable regulatory requirement. The Board of Directors and the appropriate officers of the Company are authorized to take from time to time whatever actions are necessary, and to file
any required documents with governmental authorities, stock exchanges and transaction reporting systems to ensure that shares of Common Stock are available for issuance pursuant to the Plan.             5.    Terms of Stock Options       (a)  Incentive Stock Options .    The Committee may designate a Stock Option as an  incentive stock option  for
purposes of Section 422 of the Code, and any Stock Option that is not so designated shall not be an incentive stock option. Stock Options granted under this Plan which are designated as  incentive stock options  may be granted with
respect to any number of shares of Common Stock, up to the full number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Plan, provided that the aggregate Fair Market Value of such shares of  
       
   2   

Common Stock (determined in accordance with Section 5(b) of the Plan at the time the option is granted) with respect to which such options are
exercisable for the first time by an employee during any one calendar year (under all such plans of the Company and any subsidiary of the Company) shall not exceed $100,000. To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of shares of Common
Stock with respect to which incentive stock options (determined without regard to this subsection) are exercisable for the first time by any employee during any calendar year (under all plans of the employer corporation and its parent and subsidiary
corporations) exceeds $100,000, such options shall be treated as options which are not incentive stock options.      (b)  Purchase Price; Fair
Market Value .    The purchase price of each share of Common Stock subject to a Stock Option shall be determined by the Committee prior to granting a Stock Option. The Committee shall set the purchase price for each share of
Common Stock at either the fair market value (the  Fair Market Value ) of each share of Common Stock on the date the Stock Option is granted, or at such other price as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine, but not less than
one hundred percent (100%) of such Fair Market Value. After it is granted, no Stock Option may be amended to decrease the purchase price and no Stock Option may be granted in substitution for an outstanding Stock Option with a purchase price
lower than the purchase price of an outstanding Stock Option. The Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on a particular date shall be deemed to be the mean between the highest and lowest composite sales price per share of the Common Stock in
the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Quotations, as reported for that date, or, if there shall have been no such reported prices for that date, the reported mean price on the last preceding date on which a composite sale or sales were
effected on one or more of the exchanges on which the shares of Common Stock were traded shall be the Fair Market Value.      (c)  Permitted
Restriction on Transfer of Option shares of Common Stock .    At the time of the grant of a Stock Option, the Committee may determine that the shares of Common Stock covered by such option shall be restricted as to
transferability when and if such shares of Common Stock are delivered upon exercise. If so restricted, such shares of Common Stock shall not be sold, transferred or disposed of in any manner, and such shares of Common Stock shall not be pledged or
otherwise hypothecated until the restriction expires by its terms. The circumstances under which any such restriction shall expire shall be determined by the Committee and shall be communicated to the optionee in connection with the grant of the
option to purchase such shares of Common Stock.      (d)  Terms Related to Exercise .       (i) Exercise Schedule.  Subject to the requirements of paragraphs (A) and (B) below, each Stock Option granted hereunder
shall be exercisable in one or more installments (annual or other) on such date or dates as the Committee may in its sole discretion determine and communicate to the optionee in communicating the grant of the option.      (A) No Stock Option may be exercised after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date such option is granted (the maximum term
established by the Committee with respect to a particular Stock Option is hereinafter referred to as the  Option Period ).      (B) Except in the case of death or disability (as described in Section 5(d)(iv)(B) or 5(d)(v)(B)), no Stock Option shall vest or become exercisable with respect to any portion of the shares of Common Stock thereunder unless and until
the recipient remains in the employment of the Company or a subsidiary for a period of at least one (1) year from the date of grant of the option (which provision shall not be construed to impair in any way the right of the Company or
subsidiary to terminate such employment).      For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the provisions of this Section 5(d)(i) apply to any
Stock Option held by an optionee whose employment terminated due to death or disability prior to January 17, 2008.      (ii)
 Cumulative Exercise Rights . The right to purchase shares of Common Stock shall be cumulative so that when the right to purchase any shares of Common Stock has accrued, such shares of Common Stock or any part thereof may be purchased at any
time thereafter until the expiration or termination of the Stock Option.      (iii)  Reload.  No Stock Option may include
provisions that  reload  the option upon exercise.      (iv)  Termination of Employment and Subsequent Events.       (A) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated with the consent of the Company and provided such employment is not
terminated for cause (of which the Committee shall be the sole judge), the Committee may permit such Stock Option to be exercised by such optionee at any time during the period of three (3) months after such termination or the remainder of the
Option Period whichever is less, provided that such option may be exercised only to the extent it was exercisable on the date of such termination.      (B) In the event an optionee dies while in the employ of the Company, any outstanding Stock Option shall automatically become fully vested and exercisable by the person or persons entitled thereto under the
optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution during the  Post-Death Exercise Period.  The Post-Death Exercise Period shall commence on the date of the optionee s death and shall end sixty (60) months thereafter or
the remainder of the Option Period whichever is less.      (C) In the event an optionee dies after termination of employment but
prior to the exercise in full of any Stock Option which was exercisable on the date of such termination, such option may be exercised before expiration of its term by the person or persons entitled thereto under the optionee s will or the laws
of descent and distribution during the Post-Death Exercise Period to the extent exercisable by the optionee at the date of death. For purposes of this Section 5(d)(iv)(C), the Post-Death Exercise Period shall commence on the date of the
optionee s termination of employment and shall end sixty (60) months thereafter or the remainder of the Option Period whichever is less.         
   3   

(D) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated without the consent
of the Company for any reason other than the death of the optionee, or if the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated for cause, his or her rights under any then outstanding Stock Option shall terminate immediately. The Committee
shall be the sole judge of whether the optionee s employment is terminated without the consent of the Company or for cause. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the optionee engages in  detrimental activity  (as hereinafter defined)
within one year after termination of employment for any reason other than retirement or disability, the Committee, in its discretion, may cause the optionee s right to exercise such option to be forfeited. Such forfeiture may occur at any time
after the Committee determines that the optionee has engaged in detrimental activity and prior to the actual delivery of all shares of Common Stock subject to the option pursuant to the exercise of such option. If an allegation of detrimental
activity by an optionee is made to the Committee, the Committee, in its discretion, may suspend the exercisability of the optionee s options for up to two months to permit the investigation of such allegation. In addition, if the optionee
engages in detrimental activity within one year following termination of employment for any reason other than retirement or disability, the Committee, in its discretion, may rescind any option exercise made within the period commencing six months
preceding the date of the optionee s termination of employment and ending three months following such termination. For purposes of this Section 5,  detrimental activity  means activity that is determined by the Committee in its
sole and absolute discretion to be detrimental to the interests of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, including but not limited to situations where such optionee: (1) divulges trade secrets of the Company, proprietary data or other
confidential information relating to the Company or to the business of the Company and any subsidiaries, (2) enters into employment with a competitor under circumstances suggesting that such optionee will be using unique or special knowledge
gained as a Company employee to compete with the Company, (3) uses information obtained during the course of his or her prior employment for his or her own purposes, such as for the solicitation of business, (4) is determined to have
engaged (whether or not prior to termination) in either gross misconduct or criminal activity harmful to the Company, or (5) takes any action that harms the business interests, reputation, or goodwill of the Company and/or its subsidiaries.
     For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the provisions of this Section 5(d)(iv) apply to any Stock Option held by an
optionee whose employment terminated due to death or disability prior to January 17, 2008.      (v)  Retirement, Disability and Subsequent
Events.       (A) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated due to retirement, such Stock Option shall
be exercisable by such optionee at any time during the period of sixty (60) months after such termination or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less (the  Retirement Exercise Period ), provided that such option may be
exercised after such termination and before expiration only to the extent that it is exercisable on the date of such termination. For purposes of this Section 5(d)(v),  retirement  shall mean termination of the optionee s
employment with the Company and all affiliates at or after (i) age 55 or (ii) age 50 and completion of at least 10 years of service with the Company and all affiliates.      (B) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated due to disability, such Stock Option shall automatically become fully
vested and exercisable. Such optionee may exercise the outstanding Stock Option at any time during (1) in the case of Stock Options intended to be incentive stock options within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and granted prior to
January 17, 2008, the period of three (3) months after such termination or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less, or (2) in the case of all other Stock Options, the period of sixty (60) months after such
termination or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is less (the  Disability Exercise Period ). For purposes of this Section 5(d)(v),  disability  shall mean such disability (whether through physical or mental
impairment) which totally and permanently incapacitates the optionee from any gainful employment in any field which the optionee is suited by education, training, or experience, as determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion.
     (C) In the event an optionee dies during the Retirement Exercise Period or the Disability Exercise Period, such Stock
Option may be exercised by the person or persons entitled thereto under the optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution to the extent exercisable by the optionee at the date of death and to the extent the term of the Option Period
has not expired within such Retirement Exercise Period or Disability Exercise Period.      (D) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if
the optionee engages in  detrimental activity  (as defined in Section 5(d)(iv)(D)) within five years after termination of employment by reason of retirement or disability, the Committee, in its discretion, may cause the
optionee s right to exercise such option to be forfeited. Such forfeiture may occur at any time after the Committee determines that the optionee has engaged in detrimental activity and prior to the actual delivery of all shares of Common Stock
subject to the option pursuant to the exercise of such option. If an allegation of detrimental activity by an optionee is made to the Committee, the Committee, in its discretion, may suspend the exercisability of the optionee s options for up
to two months to permit the investigation of such allegation. In addition, if the optionee engages in detrimental activity within five years following termination of employment by reason of retirement or disability, the Committee, in its discretion,
may rescind any option exercise made within the period commencing six months preceding the date of the optionee s termination of employment by retirement or disability and ending one year following such termination.      For the avoidance of doubt, in no event shall the provisions of this Section 5(d)(v) apply to any Stock Option held by an optionee whose
employment terminated due to death or disability prior to January 17, 2008.         
   4   

6.    Stock Awards       An Award may be in the form of a Stock Award. The terms, conditions and limitations applicable to any Stock Awards granted pursuant to this Plan shall be determined by the Committee, subject to the limitations
provided herein. Each Stock Award shall be subject to a vesting schedule, restriction period or holding period, or any combination thereof, totaling at least three years from the date of the Stock Award (the vesting, lapse, or termination
of which may be no more rapid in combination than pro rata over three years), provided that the Committee may provide for earlier vesting, lapse of restriction or end of holding period upon a termination of employment by reason
of death or disability.      Any Stock Award granted to a person who is an executive officer of the Company at the time of grant shall be
performance-based and not eligible for vesting based solely on the passage of time.      Without limiting the type or number of Stock
Awards that may be made under the other provisions of this Plan, a Stock Award may be in the form of a performance award. The terms, conditions and limitations applicable to any performance awards granted to participants pursuant to this Plan shall
be determined by the Committee, subject to the limitations set forth below. The Committee shall set performance goals in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the amount of performance awards that will
be paid out to the participant.      (a)  Nonqualified Performance Awards .    Performance Awards granted to
participants that are not intended to qualify as qualified performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be based on achievement of such goals and be subject to such terms, conditions, and restrictions as the Committee
or its delegate shall determine.      (b)  Qualified Performance
Awards .    Performance Awards granted to participants under the Plan that are intended to qualify as qualified performance based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be paid, vested, or otherwise
deliverable solely on account of the attainment of one or more pre-established, objective performance goals established by the Committee prior to the earlier to occur of (i) 90 days after the commencement of the period of service to which the
performance goal relates and (ii) the lapse of 25% of the period of service (as scheduled in good faith at the time the goal is established), and in any event while the outcome is substantially uncertain. A performance goal is objective if a
third party having knowledge of the relevant facts could determine whether the goal is met. Such a performance goal may be based on one or more business criteria that apply to the participant, one or more business units, divisions or sectors of the
Company, or the Company as a whole, and if so desired by the Committee, by comparison with a peer group of companies. A performance goal may include one or more of the following: revenue measures; Net income measures (including but not limited to
income after capital costs and income before or after taxes); Stock price measures (including but not limited to growth measures and total shareholder return); Market share; Earnings per share (actual or targeted growth); Earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation, amortization, and charges and credits; Economic value added ( EVA       Cash flow measures (including but not limited to net cash flow and net cash flow before
financing activities); Return measures (including but not limited to return on equity, return on average assets, return on capital, risk-adjusted return on capital, return on investors  capital and return on average equity); Operating measures
(including operating income, funds from operations, cash from operations, after-tax operating income and sales volumes); Expense measures (including but not limited to overhead cost and general and administrative expense); Margins; Proceeds from
divestitures; Total market value; and Corporate values measures (including ethics compliance, environmental, and safety).      Unless otherwise
stated, such a performance goal need not be based upon an increase or positive result under a particular business criterion and could include, for example, maintaining the status quo or limiting economic losses (measured, in each case, by reference
to specific business criteria). In interpreting Plan provisions applicable to qualified performance Awards, it is the intent of the Plan to conform with the standards of Section 162(m) of the Code and Treasury Regulation
 1.162-27(e)(2)(i), as to grants to those participants whose compensation is, or is likely to be, subject to Section 162(m) of the Code, and the Committee in establishing such goals and interpreting the Plan shall be guided by such
provisions. Prior to the payment of any compensation based on the achievement of performance goals for qualified performance Awards, the Committee must certify in writing that applicable performance goals and any of the material terms thereof were,
in fact, satisfied. Subject to the foregoing provisions, the terms, conditions, and limitations applicable to any qualified performance Awards made pursuant to this Plan shall be determined by the Committee.         
   5   

7.    Assignability       Awards granted under the Plan shall not be assignable or otherwise transferable by the recipient except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Otherwise, Awards granted under this Plan shall be exercisable
during the lifetime of the recipient, to the extent applicable, (except as otherwise provided in the Plan or in the documentation of the grant for Awards other than  incentive stock options ) only by the recipient for his or her individual
account, and no purported assignment or transfer of such Awards thereunder, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest in the purported assignee or transferee any interest or right therein whatsoever but
immediately upon any such purported assignment or transfer, or any attempt to make the same, such Awards thereunder shall terminate and become of no further effect.             8.    Taxes       The
Committee may make such provisions and rules as it may deem appropriate for the withholding of taxes in connection with any Awards granted under the Plan. A participant, subject to such rules as the Committee may prescribe from time to time, may
elect to satisfy all or any portion of the tax required to be withheld by the Company by transfer to the Company of shares of Common Stock theretofore and by the holder of the Award with respect to which withholding is required. If shares of Common
Stock are used to satisfy tax withholding, such shares of Common Stock shall be valued based on the Fair Market Value when the tax withholding is required to be made. An optionee s election pursuant to this section must be made on or before the
date of exercise or vesting and must be irrevocable.             9.    Reorganizations and Recapitalizations of the Company       (a) The existence of this Plan and Awards
granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Company or its stockholders to make or authorize any or all adjustments, recapitalizations, reorganizations or other changes in the Company s capital structure or its
business, or any merger or consolidation of the Company, or any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stocks ahead of or affecting the shares of Common Stock or the rights thereof, or the dissolution or liquidation of the
Company, or any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business, or any other corporate act or proceeding, whether of a similar character or otherwise.      (b) Except as hereinafter provided, the issue by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, for cash or property, or for labor or services, either upon
direct sale or upon exercise of rights or warrants to subscribe therefor, or upon conversion of shares or obligations of the Company convertible into such shares or other securities, shall not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be
made with respect to, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to Awards granted hereunder.      (c) The shares of Common Stock with respect
to which Awards may be granted hereunder are shares of the Common Stock of the Company as presently constituted, but if, and whenever, prior to the delivery by the Company or a subsidiary of all of the shares of Common Stock which are subject to the
Awards or rights granted hereunder, the Company shall effect a subdivision or consolidation of shares or other capital readjustments, the payment of a stock dividend or other increase or reduction of the number of shares of the Common Stock
outstanding without receiving compensation therefore in money, services or property, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Plan shall be proportionately adjusted and the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which
outstanding Awards or other property subject to an outstanding Award granted hereunder shall:      (i) in the event of an
increase in the number of outstanding shares, be proportionately increased, and the cash consideration (if any) payable per share of Common Stock shall be proportionately reduced; and      (ii) in the event of a reduction in the number of outstanding shares, be proportionately reduced, and the cash consideration (if any)
payable per share of Common Stock shall be proportionately increased.      (d) If the Company merges with one or more corporations, or
consolidates with one or more corporations and the Company shall be the surviving corporation, thereafter, upon any exercise of Awards granted hereunder, the recipient shall, at no additional cost (other than the option price, if any) be entitled to
receive (subject to any required action by stockholders) in lieu of the number of shares of Common Stock as to which such Awards shall then be exercisable or vested the number and class of shares of stock or other securities to  
       
   6   

which the recipient would have been entitled pursuant to the terms of the agreement of merger or consolidation, if immediately prior to such merger or
consolidation the recipient had been the holder of record of the number of shares of Common Stock of the Company equal to the number of shares of Common Stock as to which such Awards shall be exercisable or vested. Upon any reorganization, merger or
consolidation where the Company is not the surviving corporation or upon liquidation or dissolution of the Company, unless provisions are made in connection with such reorganization, merger or consolidation for the assumption of such Awards, all
outstanding Awards shall be fully exercisable and vested by the Company and all holders given notice to permit exercise for 30 days prior to cancellation of the Awards as of the effective date of any such reorganization, merger or consolidation, or
of any dissolution or liquidation of the Company.      (e) The Committee shall have the authority to determine whether this Section 9
applies to any transaction or event and to determine any adjustment or other action that it deems appropriate under this Section 9.             10.    Registration under Securities Act of 1933 and Exchange Listing       It is intended that the Awards and shares of Common Stock covered by the Plan will be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. At the time any shares of Common Stock are issued or transferred pursuant
to an Award, such shares of Common Stock will have been listed (or listed subject to notice of issuance) on the New York Stock Exchange.             11.    Plan Term       The Plan shall be effective
January 20, 2005 and amended and restated as of January 19, 2006. No Awards shall be granted pursuant to this Plan after January 20, 2015.             12.    Amendment or Termination       The Board of
Directors may amend, alter, suspend or discontinue the Plan at any time insofar as permitted by law, but no amendment or alteration shall be made without the approval of the stockholders:      (a) if, except as contemplated by Section 9 of the Plan, the amendment would permit the decrease of the purchase price of a Stock Option after the
grant of the Stock Option or grant to the holder of an outstanding Stock Option, a new Stock Option with a lower purchase price in exchange for the outstanding Stock Option; or      (b) if the amendment or alteration would constitute a material revision to the Plan requiring stockholder approval under applicable legal requirements or
the applicable requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or such other securities exchange on which the Company s Common Stock is listed.      No amendment of the Plan shall alter or impair any of the rights or obligations of any person, without his or her consent, under any option or right theretofore granted under the Plan.             13.    Government Regulations       Notwithstanding any of the provisions hereof or of any Award granted hereunder, the obligation of the Company or any subsidiary to sell and deliver shares of Common Stock
under such Award to make cash payments in respect thereto shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations and to such approvals by any governmental agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required, and the recipient shall
not exercise or convert any Award granted hereunder, and the Company or any subsidiary will not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock or make any payments under any such Award if the exercise thereof or if the issuance of such shares of
Common Stock or if the payment made shall constitute a violation by the recipient or the Company or any subsidiary of any provision of any applicable law or regulation of any governmental authority.             14.    Non-United States Participants       The Committee may grant awards to persons outside the United States under such terms and conditions as may, in the judgment of the Committee, be necessary or advisable to
comply with the laws of the applicable foreign jurisdictions and, to that end, may establish sub-plans, modified option exercise procedures and other terms and procedures. Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder,
and no Awards shall be granted, that would violate the Exchange Act, the Code, any securities law, any governing statute, or any other applicable law.         
   7   

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.7>
 8
 dex107.htm
 SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED  2004 STOCK AND DEFERRAL PLAN FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS

Schlumberger Limited  2004 Stock and Deferral Plan for Non-Employee Directors 

Exhibit 10.7        SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED        2004 STOCK AND DEFERRAL PLAN        FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS       (As Amended
and Restated Effective April 19, 2007,      and conformed to include amendments through January 1, 2009)       ARTICLE I        PURPOSES OF PLAN AND
DEFINITIONS       1.1  Purpose . Schlumberger Limited established this 2004 Stock and Deferral Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the
 Plan ) for the purpose of providing non-employee directors of the Company with regular grants of shares of the common stock of the Company (or units representing such shares) and the opportunity to defer a portion of their compensation,
in order to provide greater incentives for those non-employee Directors to attain and maintain the highest standards of performance, to attract and retain non-employee Directors of outstanding competence and ability, to stimulate the active interest
of such persons in the development and financial success of the Company, to further the identity of interests of such non-employee Directors with those of the Company s stockholders generally, and to reward such non-employee Directors for
outstanding performance. The Plan was originally established effective April 14, 2004 and approved by the stockholders of the Company at the April 2004 annual meeting. Effective April 19, 2007, the Plan is hereby amended and restated to
allow non-employee Directors to defer the payment of part or all of his or her Cash Compensation.      1.2  Definitions .       Annual Director Award Date  means the last day of the calendar month in which occurs the first Board meeting following the regular annual
general meeting of the stockholders of the Company       Board of Directors  or  Board  means the Board of Directors of the
Company.       Cash Compensation  means the total cash compensation which is paid to Eligible Directors for services rendered
including any annual retainer fees and any annual fees related to committee membership or services as a committee chair.       Committee  means such committee as is designated by the Board to administer the Plan in accordance with Article II, or if no such committee is designated, the Board.       Common Stock  means the Common Stock, par value $.01 per share, of the Company.       Company  means Schlumberger Limited, a Netherlands Antilles corporation.       Deferred Compensation Account  means the bookkeeping account maintained for each Participant to record certain amounts deferred by the
Participant in accordance with Article IV hereof.       Determination Date  means the date on which delivery of a
Participant s deferred Stock Awards or Cash Compensation is made or commences, as determined in accordance with Section 5.1.       Director  means an individual who is serving as a member of the Board.       Eligible Director  means each
Director who is not an employee of the Company or of any of its subsidiaries.       Money Market Equivalents  means a phantom
investment benchmark that is used to measure the return credited to a Participant s Deferred Compensation Account. To the extent Money Market Equivalents are elected,  

interest equivalents will be credited to the Participant s Deferred Compensation Account as of the last day of each calendar month based upon the
average daily balance in the account for the month and the IMONEY NET First Tier Institutional Index benchmark return for the month as determined from Northern Trust or a similar or equivalent index of money fund assets to be determined by the
Committee to be in effect from time to time.       Participant  means an Eligible Director who is granted Stock Awards pursuant to
Article III.       Stock Award  means an award of shares of Common Stock, restricted Common Stock or restricted Stock Units pursuant
to Article III.       Stock Unit  means a unit which represents the right to receive one share of Common Stock under such terms and
conditions as may be prescribed by the Committee and this Plan.       S P 500 Index  means a phantom investment benchmark that is
used to measure the return credited to a Participant s Deferred Compensation Account. To the extent S P 500 Equivalents are elected, the earnings (or loss) equivalents will be credited (or debited) to the Participant s Deferred
Compensation Account as of the last day of each calendar quarter based upon the balance in the account as of the last day of the quarter and the returns realized by the Standard   Poor s 500 Index for the quarter.       ARTICLE II        ADMINISTRATION OF THE
PLAN       2.1  Committee . This Plan shall be administered by the Committee.      2.2  Committee s Powers . Subject to the provisions hereof, the Committee shall have full and exclusive power and authority to administer this
Plan and to take all actions which are specifically contemplated hereby or are necessary or appropriate in connection with the administration hereof. The Committee shall also have full and exclusive power to interpret this Plan and to adopt such
rules, regulations, and guidelines for carrying out this Plan as it may deem necessary or proper, all of which powers shall be exercised in the best interests of the Company and in keeping with the objectives of this Plan. The Committee shall also
have the full and exclusive power to adopt rules, procedures, guidelines and sub-plans to this Plan relating to the operation and administration of the Plan to accommodate the specific requirements of local laws and procedures in foreign
jurisdictions. The Committee may, in its discretion, determine the eligibility of individuals to participate herein, determine the amount of Stock Awards or Cash Compensation a Participant may elect to defer, or waive any restriction or other
provision of this Plan. The Committee may correct any defect or supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in this Plan in the manner and to the extent the Committee deems necessary or desirable to carry it into effect.      2.3  Committee Determinations Conclusive . Any decision of the Committee in the interpretation and administration of this Plan shall lie within its
sole and absolute discretion and shall be final, conclusive and binding on all parties concerned.      2.4  Committee Liability . No
member of the Committee or officer of the Company to whom the Committee has delegated authority in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.5 of this Plan shall be liable for anything done or omitted to be done by him or her, by any member
of the Committee or by an officer of the Company in connection with the performance of any duties under this Plan, except for his or her own willful misconduct or as expressly provided by statute.      2.5  Delegation of Authority . The Committee may delegate to the Chief Executive Officer and to other senior officers of the Company its duties
under this Plan (other than its granting authority described in Article III) pursuant to such conditions or limitations as the Committee may establish.         
   2   

ARTICLE III        STOCK AWARDS       3.1  Shares Available . There shall be available for Stock Awards during the term
of this Plan an aggregate of 300,000 shares of Common Stock (as adjusted to reflect the 2-for-1 stock split effected in 2007 (the  Stock Split )). Shares of Common Stock will be made available from either the Company s authorized but
unissued shares or treasury shares that have been issued but reacquired by the Company.      3.2  Annual Grants . On each Annual Director
Award Date all Eligible Directors shall be granted a Stock Award with respect to a number of shares of Common Stock in the form of a number of shares of Common Stock, restricted Common Stock or restricted Stock Units, with the form and amount of
such Stock Awards to be determined by the Committee; provided however that (1) each such annual Stock Award may not exceed 4,000 shares of Common Stock (as adjusted for the Stock Split), restricted Common Stock or restricted Stock Units, and
(2) no more than 60,000 shares of Common Stock (as adjusted for the Stock Split), restricted Common Stock or restricted Stock Units may be awarded in any calendar year. The Stock Award shall be subject to such terms, conditions and restrictions
(including vesting) as the Committee may determine in its discretion in connection with such award.       ARTICLE IV        DEFERRAL ELECTION AND ACCOUNTS       4.1
 Deferral Election . A Director, at the discretion of the Committee, may irrevocably elect to defer the receipt of all or part of a Stock Award and/or Cash Compensation by submitting a Deferral Election in the manner specified by the Committee.
The Deferral Election (i) shall specify the number of shares of Common Stock the receipt of which the Participant elects to defer and/or the amount or percentage of Cash Compensation, (ii) shall designate the period of deferral among the
choices provided in Section 5.1, and (iii) may not be revoked or modified.      4.2  Timing of Elections . For annual grants of
Stock Awards pursuant to Section 3.2, Deferral Elections must be made (i) for Stock Awards, no later than the last day of the calendar year preceding the Annual Director Award Date and (ii) for Cash Compensation, no later than the
last day of the calendar year immediately preceding the calendar year in which such payments would have otherwise been paid. Effective beginning in 2008, Deferral Elections may be completed by newly appointed Eligible Directors no later than the
date that is 30 days after the date such individual first becomes an Eligible Director; provided that such Deferral Election may apply solely to Stock Awards or Cash Compensation related to services to be performed subsequent to such Deferral
Election. The Committee shall be authorized to adopt such other rules and limitations as it shall determine are necessary or appropriate with respect to the timing of elections to defer Stock Awards or Cash Compensation under the Plan.   
  4.3  Establishment of Accounts . The Company shall also set up an appropriate record (hereinafter called the  Deferred Compensation
Account ) which will from time to time reflect the name of each Participant and (i) the number of restricted Stock Units and, if applicable, dividend equivalents credited to such Participant pursuant to Section 4.4 and (ii) the
Cash Compensation deferred pursuant to Section 4.1 plus earnings or losses credited thereon monthly.      4.4  Crediting of Deferred
Stock Awards or Restricted Stock Unit Awards . Any Stock Awards deferred pursuant to a Deferral Election as described in Section 4.1 shall be credited to the Participant s Deferred Compensation Account as of the date the shares would
otherwise have been delivered pursuant to Article III in the form of a number of restricted Stock Units equal to the number of shares of Common Stock deferred, and any restricted Stock Units awarded pursuant to Section 3.2 shall also be
credited to a Participant s Deferred Compensation Account as of such date. No interest will be credited to a Participant s Deferred Compensation  
       
   3   

Account with respect to any restricted Stock Units. In the event that a cash dividend is paid on Common Stock during the period that restricted Stock Units
are credited to the Participant s Deferred Compensation Account, an amount equivalent to the amount of the cash dividend will be credited to the Participant s Deferred Compensation Account and the accumulated amount will be paid out
without interest at the end of the period of deferral.      4.5  Adjustments .      (a)  Exercise of Corporate Powers . The existence of this Plan and any outstanding restricted Stock Units credited hereunder shall
not affect in any manner the right or power of the Company or its stockholders to make or authorize any or all adjustments, recapitalizations, reorganizations or other changes in the capital stock of the Company or its business or any merger or
consolidation of the Company, or any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stock (whether or not such issue is prior to, on a parity with or junior to the existing Common Stock) or the dissolution or liquidation of the Company,
or any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business, or any other corporate act or proceeding of any kind, whether or not of a character similar to that of the acts or proceedings enumerated above.      (b)  Recapitalizations, Reorganizations and Other Activities . In the event of any subdivision or consolidation of outstanding shares
of Common Stock, declaration of a dividend payable in shares of Common Stock or other stock split, then (i) the number of restricted Stock Units relating to such class of Common Stock; (ii) the appropriate fair market value and other price
determinations for such restricted Stock Units; (iii) the number of shares reserved for issuance under this Plan in Section 3.1 and (iv) the limitation designated in Section 3.2 of this Plan shall each be proportionately adjusted
by the Board to reflect such transaction. In the event of any other recapitalization or capital reorganization of the Company, any consolidation or merger of the Company with another corporation or entity, the adoption by the Company of any plan of
exchange affecting any class of Common Stock or any distribution to holders of any class of Common Stock of securities or property (other than normal cash dividends or dividends payable in Common Stock), the Board shall make appropriate adjustments
to (i) the number of restricted Stock Units relating to such class of Common Stock; (ii) the appropriate fair market value and other price determinations for such restricted Stock Units; (iii) the number of shares reserved for
issuance under this Plan in Section 3.1 and (iv) the limitation designated in Section 3.2 of this Plan to give effect to such transaction; provided that such adjustments shall only be such as are necessary to preserve, without increasing,
the value of such items. In the event of a corporate merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, separation, reorganization or liquidation, the Board shall be authorized to issue or assume restricted Stock Units by means of substitution
of new restricted Stock Units, as appropriate, for previously issued restricted Stock Units or an assumption of previously issued restricted Stock Units as part of such adjustment.      4.6  Deferred Cash Compensation . Each Participant shall be entitled to direct the manner in which his or her deferred Cash Compensation will be
deemed to be invested for the period of deferral and in accordance with such rules, regulations and procedures as the Committee may establish from time to time. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, earnings and losses based on a
Participant s investment elections shall begin to accrue as of the date such Participant s deferred Cash Compensation amounts are credited to his or her Deferred Compensation Account and shall end on the Determination Date (as defined in
Section 5.1 below). Each Participant may choose to have his or her deferred Cash Compensation deemed to be invested in the Common Stock, Money Market Equivalents or S P 500 Equivalents. Any amounts deemed to be invested in the
Company s Common Stock shall (1) have a purchase price equal to the fair market value (as defined below) of each share of Common Stock on the date the investment is deemed to have occurred, and (2) be credited with dividend
equivalents representing cash dividends payable with respect to the Common Stock, if any. For purposes of the Plan, the  fair market value  of Common Stock shall be deemed to equal the closing sales price per share of the Common Stock in
the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Quotations, as reported for that date, or if there shall have been no such reported prices for that date, the reported closing sales price on the last preceding date on which a composite sale or
sales were effected on one or more of the exchanges on which the shares of Common Stock were traded shall be the fair market value.         
   4   

ARTICLE V        DELIVERY OF DEFERRED SHARES OR CASH       5.1  Period of Deferral . With respect to (a) Stock
Awards and/or Cash Compensation deferred pursuant to Section 4.1, a Participant may elect that delivery of deferred Stock Awards and/or Cash Compensation credited to the Participant under the Plan be made or commence at (i) a date that is
one year following the date of the termination of the Participant s status as a Director of the Company, or (ii) the date of the termination of the Participant s status as a Director of the Company, and (b) restricted Stock Units
granted pursuant to Section 3.2, the Committee shall determine the date or conditions as of which shares represented by such restricted Stock Units will be delivered (the date elected or selected by the Participant or the Committee, as
applicable, to be known as the  Determination Date ). Delivery of shares will be made within 60 days after the Determination Date.      5.2  Delivery of Deferred Stock Awards and Deferred Cash Compensation . As of the Determination Date, the aggregate number of restricted Stock Units and, if applicable, dividend equivalents credited to a Participant s Deferred
Compensation Account as of such Determination Date shall be calculated. A Participant shall receive delivery of a number of shares of Common Stock equal to the aggregate number of restricted Stock Units and a cash payments equal to the amount of the
aggregate dividend equivalents representing cash dividends payable with respect to the Company s Common Stock, if any. As of the Determination Date, a Participant s Cash Compensation deemed to be invested in Money Market Equivalents or
S P 500 Equivalents, plus any amounts credited to Participant s Deferred Compensation Account pursuant to Section 4.6 herein, shall be payable in the form of a cash lump sum. As of the Determination Date, a Participant s Cash
Compensation deemed to be invested in shares of the Company s Common Stock shall be payable in the form of shares of the Company s Common Stock plus a cash payments equal to the amount of the aggregate dividend equivalents.      5.3  Death Prior to Payment . In the event that a Participant dies prior to delivery of all shares and funds deliverable pursuant to the Plan, any
remaining shares and funds credited to Participant s Deferred Compensation Account shall be delivered to the Participant s estate within 60 days following the Company s notification of the Participant s death.      5.4  Delivery to Incompetents . To the extent allowed under applicable law, should the Participant become incompetent, the Company shall be
authorized to deliver shares and funds credited to Participant s Deferred Compensation Account and deliverable pursuant to the Plan to a guardian or legal representative of such incompetent, or directly to such incompetent, whichever manner the
Committee shall determine in its sole discretion.       ARTICLE VI        MISCELLANEOUS       6.1  Unfunded Plan . Nothing contained herein shall be
deemed to create a trust of any kind or create any fiduciary relationship. This Plan shall be unfunded. To the extent that a Participant acquires a right to receive delivery of shares from the Company under the Plan, such right shall not be greater
than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company and such right shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company. Although bookkeeping accounts may be established with respect to Participants, any such accounts
shall be used merely as a bookkeeping convenience. The Company shall not be required to segregate any assets that may at any time be represented by stock or rights thereto, nor shall this Plan be construed as providing for such segregation, nor
shall the Company, the Board or the Committee be deemed to be a trustee of any stock or rights thereto to be granted under this Plan. Any liability or obligation of the Company to any Participant with respect to stock or rights thereto under this
Plan shall be based solely upon any contractual obligations that may be created by this Plan, and no such liability or obligation of the Company shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge or other encumbrance on any property of the Company. Neither
the Company nor  
       
   5   

the Board nor the Committee shall be required to give any security or bond for the performance of any obligation that may be created by this Plan.
     6.2  Title to Funds Remains with Company . Amounts credited to each Participant s Deferred Compensation Account shall not be
specifically set aside or otherwise segregated, but will be combined with corporate assets. Title to such amounts will remain with the Company and the Company s only obligation will be to make timely delivery to Participants in accordance with
the Plan.      6.3  Statement of Account . A statement will be furnished to each Participant annually on such date as may be determined by
the Committee stating the balance of Deferred Compensation Account as of a recent date designated by the Committee.      6.4
 Assignability . Except as provided in Section 5.3, no right to receive delivery of shares hereunder shall be transferable or assignable by a Participant except by will or the laws of descent and distribution or pursuant to a qualified
domestic relations order as defined by the U.S. Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ) or Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, or the rules thereunder. Any attempted assignment of
any benefit under this Plan in violation of this Section 6.4 shall be null and void.      6.5  Amendment, Modification, Suspension or
Termination . The Board may amend, modify, suspend or terminate this Plan for the purpose of meeting or addressing any changes in legal requirements or for any other purpose permitted by law, except that (i) no amendment, modification or
termination shall, without the consent of the Participant, impair the rights of any Participant to the number of restricted Stock Units credited to such Participant s Deferred Compensation Account as of the date of such amendment, modification
or termination and (ii) no amendment or modification shall be effective prior to its approval by the stockholders of the Company to the extent such approval is required by applicable legal requirements or the requirements of the securities
exchange on which the Company s Common Stock is listed. The Board may at any time and from time to time delegate to the Committee any or all of this authority under this Section 6.5.      6.6  Governing Law . This Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto, to the extent not otherwise governed by mandatory
provisions of the Code or the securities laws of the United States, shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Texas.      6.7  Tax and Social Insurance . Participants are responsible for any and all tax or social insurance due on Stock Awards or restricted Stock Units under this Plan. Participants shall pay or make arrangements to
satisfy all withholding obligations of the Company related to this Plan. The Company has the authority to satisfy any withholding obligations from funds or shares of Common Stock deliverable pursuant to this Plan or other cash compensation due a
Participant, if applicable.      6.8  Code Section 409A . To the extent applicable, this Plan is intended to comply with the provisions
Code Section 409A and related regulations and United States Department of the Treasury pronouncements ( Section 409A ) with respect to amounts deferred or vested on or after January 1, 2005, and shall be interpreted accordingly. To
the extent it would not adversely impact the Company, the Company agrees to interpret, apply and administer this Plan in the least restrictive manner necessary to comply with such requirements and without resulting in any diminution in the value of
payments or benefits to the Participants. No action taken to comply with Section 409A shall be deemed to adversely affect the Participant s rights under this Plan.       
  
   6   

</EX-10.7>

<EX-10.8>
 9
 dex108.htm
 SCHLUMBERGER 2008 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN

Schlumberger 2008 Stock Incentive Plan 

Exhibit 10.8        SCHLUMBERGER 2008 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN        (As Established Effective
January 17, 2008,        and conformed to include amendments through January 1, 2009)              1. Purpose of the Plan             This Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) is intended as an incentive to key
employees of Schlumberger Limited (the  Company ) and its subsidiaries. Its purposes are to retain employees with a high degree of training, experience and ability, to attract new employees whose services are considered unusually valuable,
to encourage the sense of proprietorship of such persons and to promote the active interest of such persons in the development and financial success of the Company.             2. Administration of the Plan             (a)  Compensation Committee . The Board of Directors shall appoint and maintain a Compensation Committee (the
 Committee ) which shall consist of at least three (3) members of the Board of Directors, none of whom is an officer or employee of the Company, who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board. No member of such Committee shall be
eligible to receive Awards under this Plan during his or her tenure on the Committee.      (b)  Committee Powers . The Committee shall have
full power and authority to interpret the provisions of the Plan and supervise its administration. All decisions and selections made by the Committee pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be made by a majority of its members; provided,
however, that the Committee may delegate its authority to grant awards hereunder to the chairperson of the Committee or any other member of the Committee to act in his or her absence, subject to such terms, conditions and limitations as the
Committee may prescribe in its discretion. Any decision reduced to writing and signed by a majority of the members shall be fully effective as if adopted by a majority at a meeting duly held. The Committee may from time to time grant incentive stock
options and non qualified stock options ( Stock Options ) and restricted stock and restricted stock units ( Stock Awards ) under the Plan to the persons described in Section 3 hereof. Subject to the provisions of the Plan,
the Committee shall have full and final authority to determine the persons to whom Stock Options and Stock Awards (collectively referred to as  Awards ) hereunder shall be granted, the number of shares to be covered by each Award except
that no participant may be granted Stock Options or Stock Awards more than 750,000 shares of common stock during the life of the Plan, whether each Stock Option shall be designated an  incentive stock option  or a  non qualified stock
option,  and all other terms of each Award consistent with the provisions of this Plan. If the exercise period of an outstanding Stock Option is continued following a holder s termination of employment as provided in Section 5, and
the holder engages in  detrimental activity  as described in Section 5, the Committee shall have the authority in its discretion to cause such option to be forfeited and certain option exercises thereunder to be rescinded as provided
for in Section 5.      (c)  Committee Liability . No member of the Committee shall be liable for anything done or omitted to be done
by him or by her or any other member of the Committee in connection with the Plan, except for his or her own willful misconduct or as expressly provided by statute.             3. Grants of Awards             (a)  Eligibility for Awards . The persons eligible for participation in the Plan as recipients of Awards shall include only employees of the Company
or its subsidiary corporations as defined in Section 424(f) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended from time to time (the  Code ), and hereinafter referred to as  subsidiaries,  who are executive, administrative,
professional or technical personnel who have responsibilities affecting the management, direction, development and financial success of the Company or its subsidiaries. No Director of the Company who is not also an employee is eligible to
participate in the Plan, nor is any employee who owns directly or indirectly stock possessing more than five percent (5%) of the total combined voting power or value of all classes of stock of the Company or any subsidiary. An employee may
receive more than one grant of Awards at the Committee s discretion including simultaneous grants of different forms of Awards.      (b)
 Discretion in and Documentation of Awards . The Committee in granting Awards hereunder shall have discretion to determine the terms and conditions upon which such Awards may vest and become exercisable, subject to and as further described in
Section 5 and 6 of this Plan. Each grant of an Award shall be  
       
   1   

communicated, in the form and manner decided by the Committee, to the person to whom such Award is granted. In addition, the Committee may require that the
grant be confirmed by an agreement, and may require that the optionee execute such agreement.      (c)  Form of Awards . Awards may be
granted in the following forms:      (i) a Stock Option, in accordance with Section 5, or      (ii) a Stock Award in accordance with Section 6, or      (iii) a combination of the foregoing.      (d)  Employment for Plan Purposes.  For purposes of this Plan, employment with the Company shall include employment with any subsidiary of the Company, and Awards granted under this Plan shall not be affected by an employee s
transfer of employment from the Company to a subsidiary, from a subsidiary to the Company or between subsidiaries.      (e)  Payment of
Purchase Price for Stock Options . The purchase price of the shares of Common Stock as to which a Stock Option is exercised shall be paid in full at the time of the exercise subject to such rules, procedures and restrictions as the Committee may
prescribe from time to time: (i) in cash or by certified check; (ii) by the tender or delivery of shares of Schlumberger common stock with a Fair Market Value (as determined according to Section 5(b) of the Plan) at the time of
exercise equal to the total option price; or (iii) by a combination of the methods described in (i) and (ii).             4. Shares of Common Stock Subject to the Plan             Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 8 hereof, there shall be subject to the Plan 10,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the
Company ( Common Stock ). All of the shares of Common Stock authorized for issuance may be issued pursuant to Stock Options, including  incentive stock options  for purposes of Section 422 of the Code. No more than 1,500,000
shares of Common Stock of the shares authorized shall be available for the Stock Awards. The shares of Common Stock subject to the Plan shall consist of authorized and unissued shares or previously issued shares reacquired and held by the Company or
any subsidiary. Until termination of the Plan, the Company and/or one or more subsidiaries shall at all times make available a sufficient number of shares of Common Stock to meet the requirements of the Plan. After termination of the Plan, the
number of shares of Common Stock reserved for purposes of the Plan from time to time shall be only such number of shares of Common Stock as are issuable under then outstanding Awards.      The number of shares of Common Stock that are the subject of Awards under this Plan that are forfeited or terminated or expire unexercised shall not count
against the aggregate plan maximum and shall again immediately become available for grants hereunder. Shares of Common Stock delivered under the Plan in settlement of an award issued or made (a) upon the assumption, substitution, conversion or
replacement of outstanding awards under a plan or arrangement of an acquired entity or (b) as a post-transaction grant under such a plan or arrangement of an acquired entity shall not reduce or be counted against the maximum number of shares of
Common Stock available for delivery under the Plan, to the extent that the exemption for transactions in connection with mergers and acquisitions from the shareholder approval requirements of the New York Stock Exchange for equity compensation plans
applies. The Committee may from time to time adopt and observe such rules and procedures concerning the counting of shares of Common Stock against the Plan maximum as it may deem appropriate, including rules more restrictive than those set forth
above to the extent necessary to satisfy the requirements of any national securities exchange on which the Common Stock is listed or any applicable regulatory requirement. The Board of Directors and the appropriate officers of the Company are
authorized to take from time to time whatever actions are necessary, and to file any required documents with governmental authorities, stock exchanges and transaction reporting systems to ensure that shares of Common Stock are available for issuance
pursuant to the Plan.             5. Terms of Stock Options
            (a)  Incentive Stock Options . The Committee may
designate a Stock Option as an  incentive stock option  for purposes of Section 422 of the Code, and any Stock Option that is not so designated shall not be an incentive stock option. Stock Options granted under this Plan which are
designated as  incentive stock  
       
   2   

options  may be granted with respect to any number of shares of Common Stock, up to the full number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Plan,
provided that the aggregate Fair Market Value of such shares of Common Stock (determined in accordance with Section 5(b) of the Plan at the time the option is granted) with respect to which such options are exercisable for the first time by an
employee during any one calendar year (under all such plans of the Company and any subsidiary of the Company) shall not exceed $100,000. To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of shares of Common Stock with respect to which incentive
stock options (determined without regard to this subsection) are exercisable for the first time by any employee during any calendar year (under all plans of the employer corporation and its parent and subsidiary corporations) exceeds $100,000, such
options shall be treated as options which are not incentive stock options.      (b)  Purchase Price; Fair Market Value . The purchase price
of each share of Common Stock subject to a Stock Option shall be determined by the Committee prior to granting a Stock Option. The Committee shall set the purchase price for each share of Common Stock at either the fair market value (the  Fair
Market Value ) of each share of Common Stock on the date the Stock Option is granted, or at such other price as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine, but not less than one hundred percent (100%) of such Fair Market Value.
After it is granted, no Stock Option may be amended to decrease the purchase price, no Stock Option may be granted in substitution for an outstanding Stock Option with a purchase price lower than the purchase price of an outstanding Stock Option and
no Stock Option may be otherwise repriced directly or indirectly. The Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on a particular date shall be deemed to be the mean between the highest and lowest composite sales price per share of the Common Stock
in the New York Stock Exchange Composite Transactions Quotations, as reported for that date, or, if there shall have been no such reported prices for that date, the reported mean price on the last preceding date on which a composite sale or sales
were effected on one or more of the exchanges on which the shares of Common Stock were traded shall be the Fair Market Value.      (c)
 Permitted Restriction on Transfer of Option shares of Common Stock . At the time of the grant of a Stock Option, the Committee may determine that the shares of Common Stock covered by such option shall be restricted as to transferability when
and if such shares of Common Stock are delivered upon exercise. If so restricted, such shares of Common Stock shall not be sold, transferred or disposed of in any manner, and such shares of Common Stock shall not be pledged or otherwise hypothecated
until the restriction expires by its terms. The circumstances under which any such restriction shall expire shall be determined by the Committee and shall be communicated to the optionee in connection with the grant of the option to purchase such
shares of Common Stock.      (d)  Terms Related to Exercise .      (i)  Exercise Schedule . Subject to the requirements of paragraphs (A) and (B) below, each Stock Option granted hereunder
shall be exercisable in one or more installments (annual or other) on such date or dates as the Committee may in its sole discretion determine and communicate to the optionee in communicating the grant of the option.      (A) No Stock Option may be exercised after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date such option is granted (the maximum term
established by the Committee with respect to a particular Stock Option is hereinafter referred to as the  Option Period ).      (B) Except in the case of death or disability (as described in Section 5(d)(iv)(B) or 5(d)(v)(B)), no Stock Option shall vest or become exercisable with respect to any portion of the shares of Common Stock thereunder unless and until
the recipient remains in the employment of the Company or a subsidiary for a period of at least one (1) year from the date of grant of the option (which provision shall not be construed to impair in any way the right of the Company or
subsidiary to terminate such employment).      (ii)  Cumulative Exercise Rights . The right to purchase shares of Common
Stock shall be cumulative so that when the right to purchase any shares of Common Stock has accrued, such shares of Common Stock or any part thereof may be purchased at any time thereafter until the expiration or termination of the Stock Option.
     (iii)  Reload . No Stock Option may include provisions that  reload  the option upon exercise.   
  (iv)  Termination of Employment and Subsequent Events .         
   3   

(A) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated with the consent of
the Company and provided such employment is not terminated for cause (of which the Committee shall be the sole judge), the Committee may permit such Stock Option to be exercised by such optionee at any time during the period of three (3) months
after such termination or the remainder of the Option Period whichever is less, provided that such option may be exercised only to the extent it was exercisable on the date of such termination.      (B) In the event an optionee dies while in the employ of the Company, any outstanding Stock Option shall automatically become fully vested
and exercisable by the person or persons entitled thereto under the optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution during the  Post-Death Exercise Period.  The Post-Death Exercise Period shall commence on the date of the
optionee s death and shall end sixty (60) months thereafter or the remainder of the Option Period whichever is less.      (C) In the event an optionee dies after termination of employment but prior to the exercise in full of any Stock Option which was exercisable on the date of such termination, such option may be exercised by the person or persons entitled
thereto under the optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution during the Post-Death Exercise Period but only to the extent exercisable by the optionee at the date of death. For purposes of this Section 5(d)(iv)(C), the
Post-Death Exercise Period shall commence on the date of the optionee s termination of employment and shall end sixty (60) months thereafter or the remainder of the Option Period whichever is less.      (D) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated without the consent of the Company for any reason other than the
death of the optionee, or if the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated for cause, his or her rights under any then outstanding Stock Option shall terminate immediately. The Committee shall be the sole judge of whether the
optionee s employment is terminated without the consent of the Company or for cause.      (E) Notwithstanding the
foregoing, if the optionee engages in  detrimental activity  (as hereinafter defined) within one year after termination of employment for any reason other than retirement or disability, the Committee, in its discretion, may cause the
optionee s right to exercise such option to be forfeited. Such forfeiture may occur at any time after the Committee determines that the optionee has engaged in detrimental activity and prior to the actual delivery of all shares of Common Stock
subject to the option pursuant to the exercise of such option. If an allegation of detrimental activity by an optionee is made to the Committee, the Committee, in its discretion, may suspend the exercisability of the optionee s options for up
to two months to permit the investigation of such allegation. In addition, if the optionee engages in detrimental activity within one year following termination of employment for any reason other than retirement or disability (which are addressed
below in Section 5(d)(v)(D)), the Committee, in its discretion, may rescind any option exercise made within the period commencing six months preceding the date of the optionee s termination of employment and ending three months following
such termination. For purposes of this Section 5,  detrimental activity  means activity that is determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion to be detrimental to the interests of the Company or any of its
subsidiaries, including but not limited to situations where such optionee: (1) divulges trade secrets of the Company, proprietary data or other confidential information relating to the Company or to the business of the Company and any
subsidiaries, (2) enters into employment with a competitor under circumstances suggesting that such optionee will be using unique or special knowledge gained as a Company employee to compete with the Company, (3) uses information obtained
during the course of his or her prior employment for his or her own purposes, such as for the solicitation of business, (4) is determined to have engaged (whether or not prior to termination) in either gross misconduct or criminal activity
harmful to the Company, or (5) takes any action that harms the business interests, reputation, or goodwill of the Company and/or its subsidiaries.      (v)  Retirement, Disability and Subsequent Events .      (A) If the optionee s
employment with the Company is terminated due to retirement, such Stock Option shall be exercisable by such optionee at any time during the period of sixty (60) months after such termination or the remainder of the Option Period, whichever is
less (the  Retirement Exercise Period ), provided that such option may be exercised after such termination and before expiration only to the extent that it is exercisable on the date of such termination. For purposes of this
Section 5(d)(v),  retirement  shall mean termination of the optionee s employment with the Company and all affiliates at or after (i) age 55 or (ii) age 50 and completion of at least 10 years of service with the Company
and all affiliates.         
   4   

(B) If the optionee s employment with the Company is terminated due to disability,
such Stock Option shall automatically become fully vested and exercisable. Such optionee may exercise the outstanding Stock Option at any time during the period of sixty (60) months after such termination or the remainder of the Option Period,
whichever is less (the  Disability Exercise Period ). For purposes of this Section 5(d)(v),  disability  shall mean such disability (whether through physical or mental impairment) which totally and permanently incapacitates
the Optionee from any gainful employment in any field which the Optionee is suited by education, training, or experience, as determined by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion.      (C) In the event an optionee dies during the Retirement Exercise Period or the Disability Exercise Period, such Stock Option may be
exercised by the person or persons entitled thereto under the optionee s will or the laws of descent and distribution to the extent exercisable by the optionee at the date of death and to the extent the term of the Option Period has not expired
within such Retirement Exercise Period or Disability Exercise Period.      (D) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the optionee
engages in  detrimental activity  (as defined in Section 5(d)(iv)(E)) within five years after termination of employment by reason of retirement or disability, the Committee, in its discretion, may cause the optionee s right to
exercise such option to be forfeited. Such forfeiture may occur at any time after the Committee determines that the optionee has engaged in detrimental activity and prior to the actual delivery of all shares of Common Stock subject to the option
pursuant to the exercise of such option. If an allegation of detrimental activity by an optionee is made to the Committee, the Committee, in its discretion, may suspend the exercisability of the optionee s options for up to two months to permit
the investigation of such allegation. In addition, if the optionee engages in detrimental activity within five years following termination of employment by reason of retirement or disability, the Committee, in its discretion, may rescind any option
exercise made within the period commencing six months preceding the date of the optionee s termination of employment by retirement and ending one year following such termination.             6. Stock Awards             An Award may be in the form of a Stock Award. The terms, conditions and limitations applicable to any Stock Awards granted pursuant to this Plan shall be determined by
the Committee, subject to the limitations provided herein. Each Stock Award shall be subject to a vesting schedule, restriction period or holding period, or any combination thereof, totaling at least three years from the date of the Stock Award,
provided that the Committee may provide for earlier vesting, lapse of restriction or end of holding period upon a termination of employment by reason of death or disability.      Any Stock Award granted to a person who is an executive officer of the Company at the time of grant shall be performance-based and not eligible for
vesting based solely on the passage of time.      Without limiting the type or number of Stock Awards that may be made under the other
provisions of this Plan, a Stock Award may be in the form of a performance award. The terms, conditions and limitations applicable to any performance awards granted to participants pursuant to this Plan shall be determined by the Committee, subject
to the limitations set forth below. The Committee shall set performance goals in its discretion which, depending on the extent to which they are met, will determine the amount of performance awards that will be paid out to the participant.
     (a)  Nonqualified Performance Awards . Performance Awards granted to participants that are not intended to qualify as qualified
performance-based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be based on achievement of such goals and be subject to such terms, conditions, and restrictions as the Committee or its delegate shall determine.      (b)  Qualified Performance Awards . Performance Awards granted to participants under the Plan that are intended to qualify as qualified performance
based compensation under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be paid, vested, or otherwise deliverable solely on account of the attainment of one or more pre-established, objective performance goals established by the Committee prior to the
earlier to occur of (i) 90 days after the commencement of the period of service to which the performance goal relates and (ii) the lapse of 25% of the period of service (as scheduled in good faith at the time the goal is established), and
in any event while the outcome is substantially uncertain. A performance goal is objective if a third party having knowledge of the relevant facts could determine whether the goal is met. Such a performance goal may be based on one or more business
criteria that apply to the participant, one or more business units, divisions or sectors of the Company,  
       
   5   

or the Company as a whole, and if so desired by the Committee, by comparison with a peer group of companies. A performance goal may include one or more of
the following: Increased revenue; Net income measures (including but not limited to income after capital costs and income before or after taxes); Stock price measures (including but not limited to growth measures and total shareholder return);
Market share; Earnings per share (actual or targeted growth); Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ( EBITDA  Economic value added ( EVA      
Cash flow measures (including but not limited to net cash flow and net cash flow before financing activities); Return measures (including but not limited to return on equity, return on average assets, return on capital, risk-adjusted return on
capital, return on investors  capital and return on average equity); Operating measures (including operating income, funds from operations, cash from operations, after-tax operating income and sales volumes); Expense measures (including but not
limited to finding and development costs, overhead cost and general and administrative expense); Margins; Proceeds from dispositions; Total market value; and Corporate values measures (including ethics compliance, environmental, and safety).
     Unless otherwise stated, such a performance goal need not be based upon an increase or positive result under a particular business
criterion and could include, for example, maintaining the status quo or limiting economic losses (measured, in each case, by reference to specific business criteria). In interpreting Plan provisions applicable to qualified performance Awards, it is
the intent of the Plan to conform with the standards of Section 162(m) of the Code and Treasury Regulation  1.162-27(e)(2)(i), as to grants to those participants whose compensation is, or is likely to be, subject to Section 162(m) of
the Code, and the Committee in establishing such goals and interpreting the Plan shall be guided by such provisions. Prior to the payment of any compensation based on the achievement of performance goals for qualified performance Awards, the
Committee must certify in writing that applicable performance goals and any of the material terms thereof were, in fact, satisfied. Subject to the foregoing provisions, the terms, conditions, and limitations applicable to any qualified performance
Awards made pursuant to this Plan shall be determined by the Committee.             7. Assignability             Awards granted under the Plan shall
not be assignable or otherwise transferable by the recipient except by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Otherwise, Awards granted under this Plan shall be exercisable during the lifetime of the recipient, to the extent applicable,
(except as otherwise provided in the Plan or in the documentation of the grant for Awards other than  incentive stock options ) only by the recipient for his or her individual account, and no purported assignment or transfer of such Awards
thereunder, whether voluntary or involuntary, by operation of law or otherwise, shall vest in the purported assignee or transferee any interest or right therein whatsoever but immediately upon any such purported assignment or transfer, or any
attempt to make the same, such Awards thereunder shall terminate and become of no further effect.             8. Taxes             The Committee
may make such provisions and rules as it may deem appropriate for the withholding of taxes in connection with any Awards granted under the Plan. A participant, subject to such rules as the Committee may prescribe from time to time, may elect to
satisfy all or any portion of the tax required to be withheld by the Company by transfer to the Company of shares of Common Stock theretofore and by the holder of the Award with respect to which withholding is required. If shares of Common Stock are
used to satisfy tax withholding, such shares of Common Stock shall be valued based on the Fair Market Value when the tax withholding is required to be made. An optionee s election pursuant to this section must be made on or before the date of
exercise or vesting and must be irrevocable.             9.
Reorganizations and Recapitalizations of the Company             (a)
The existence of this Plan and Awards granted hereunder shall not affect in any way the right or power of the Company or its stockholders to make or authorize any or all adjustments, recapitalizations, reorganizations or other changes in the
Company s capital structure or its business, or any merger or  
       
   6   

consolidation of the Company, or any issue of bonds, debentures, preferred or prior preference stocks ahead of or affecting the shares of Common Stock or the
rights thereof, or the dissolution or liquidation of the Company, or any sale or transfer of all or any part of its assets or business, or any other corporate act or proceeding, whether of a similar character or otherwise.      (b) Except as hereinafter provided, the issue by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class,
for cash or property, or for labor or services, either upon direct sale or upon exercise of rights or warrants to subscribe therefor, or upon conversion of shares or obligations of the Company convertible into such shares or other securities, shall
not affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to Awards granted hereunder.      (c) The shares of Common Stock with respect to which Awards may be granted hereunder are shares of the Common Stock of the Company as presently constituted, but if, and whenever, prior to the delivery by the Company
or a subsidiary of all of the shares of Common Stock which are subject to the Awards or rights granted hereunder, the Company shall effect a subdivision or consolidation of shares or other capital readjustments, the payment of a stock dividend or
other increase or reduction of the number of shares of the Common Stock outstanding without receiving compensation therefore in money, services or property, the number of shares of Common Stock subject to the Plan shall be proportionately adjusted
and the number of shares of Common Stock with respect to which outstanding Awards or other property subject to an outstanding Award granted hereunder shall:      (i) in the event of an increase in the number of outstanding shares, be proportionately increased, and the cash consideration (if any)
payable per share of Common Stock shall be proportionately reduced; and      (ii) in the event of a reduction in the number of
outstanding shares, be proportionately reduced, and the cash consideration (if any) payable per share of Common Stock shall be proportionately increased.      (d) If the Company merges with one or more corporations, or consolidates with one or more corporations and the Company shall be the surviving corporation, thereafter, upon any exercise of Awards granted hereunder, the
recipient shall, at no additional cost (other than the option price, if any) be entitled to receive (subject to any required action by stockholders) in lieu of the number of shares of Common Stock as to which such Awards shall then be exercisable or
vested the number and class of shares of stock or other securities to which the recipient would have been entitled pursuant to the terms of the agreement of merger or consolidation, if immediately prior to such merger or consolidation the recipient
had been the holder of record of the number of shares of Common Stock of the Company equal to the number of shares of Common Stock as to which such Awards shall be exercisable or vested. Upon any reorganization, merger or consolidation where the
Company is not the surviving corporation or upon liquidation or dissolution of the Company, unless provisions are made in connection with such reorganization, merger or consolidation for the assumption of such Awards, all outstanding Awards shall be
fully exercisable and vested by the Company and all holders given notice to permit exercise for 30 days prior to cancellation of the Awards as of the effective date of any such reorganization, merger or consolidation, or of any dissolution or
liquidation of the Company.      (e) The Committee shall have the authority to determine whether this Section 9 applies to any transaction
or event and to determine any adjustment or other action that it deems appropriate under this Section 9.             10. Registration under Securities Act of 1933 and Exchange Listing             It is intended that the Awards and shares of Common Stock covered by the Plan will be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. At the time any shares of
Common Stock are issued or transferred pursuant to an Award, such shares of Common Stock will have been listed (or listed subject to notice of issuance) on the New York Stock Exchange.             11. Plan Term             The Plan shall be effective January 17, 2008, subject to stockholder approval at the next annual meeting of stockholders. No Awards shall be granted pursuant to this
Plan after January 17, 2018.         
   7   

12. Amendment or Termination             The Board of Directors may amend, alter, suspend or discontinue the Plan at any time insofar as permitted by law, but no amendment or
alteration shall be made without the approval of the stockholders:      (a) if, except as contemplated by Section 9 of the
Plan, the amendment would permit the decrease of the purchase price of a Stock Option after the grant of the Stock Option or grant to the holder of an outstanding Stock Option, a new Stock Option with a lower purchase price in exchange for the
outstanding Stock Option; or      (b) if the amendment or alteration would constitute a material revision to the Plan requiring
stockholder approval under applicable legal requirements or the applicable requirements of the New York Stock Exchange or such other securities exchange on which the Company s Common Stock is listed.      No amendment of the Plan shall alter or impair any of the rights or obligations of any person, without his or her consent, under any option or right theretofore granted
under the Plan.             13. Government Regulations    
        Notwithstanding any of the provisions hereof or of any Award granted hereunder, the
obligation of the Company or any subsidiary to sell and deliver shares of Common Stock under such Award to make cash payments in respect thereto shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules and regulations and to such approvals by any governmental
agencies or national securities exchanges as may be required, and the recipient shall not exercise or convert any Award granted hereunder, and the Company or any subsidiary will not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock or make any
payments under any such Award if the exercise thereof or if the issuance of such shares of Common Stock or if the payment made shall constitute a violation by the recipient or the Company or any subsidiary of any provision of any applicable law or
regulation of any governmental authority.             14. Non-United
States Participants             The Committee may grant awards to persons outside the
United States under such terms and conditions as may, in the judgment of the Committee, be necessary or advisable to comply with the laws of the applicable foreign jurisdictions and, to that end, may establish sub-plans, modified option exercise
procedures and other terms and procedures. Notwithstanding the above, the Committee may not take any actions hereunder, and no Awards shall be granted, that would violate the Exchange Act, the Code, any securities law, any governing statute, or any
other applicable law.         
   8   

</EX-10.8>

<EX-21>
 10
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES

Subsidiaries 

Exhibit 21              Significant Subsidiaries             Listed below are the significant first tier subsidiaries of the Registrant, along with the total number of active subsidiaries directly or
indirectly owned by each as of January 1, 2009. Certain second and third tier subsidiaries, though included in the numbers, are also shown by name. Ownership is 100% unless otherwise indicated. The business activities of the subsidiaries have
been keyed as follows: (a) Oilfield Services, (b) WesternGeco, (c) General/Multiple Segments.         

U.S.     

Non-U.S.   

Schlumberger B.V., Netherlands (c)   
      
          1       

55(a)           21(b)           4(c)   
     1           2             
 
    Schlumberger Canada Limited, Ontario (c)   

Schlumberger SA, France (a)   

Services Petroliers Schlumberger, France (a)   

Schlumberger Norge AS (c)   

Schlumberger Antilles N.V., Netherlands Antilles (a)   

2(a)  

Schlumberger Oilfield Holdings Limited, BVI (c)   
      
  1(a)  

135(a)           27(b)           8(c)   
     3           4             
 
    Schlumberger Holdings Limited, BVI (a)   

Dowell Schlumberger Corporation, BVI (a)   

Schlumberger Middle East S.A., Panama (a)   

Schlumberger Offshore Services Limited, BVI (a)   

Schlumberger Overseas, S.A., Panama (a)   

Schlumberger Seaco, Inc., Panama (a)   

Schlumberger Surenco, S.A., Panama (a)   

Schlumberger Plc, UK (c)   

Schlumberger Oilfield UK Plc, UK (a)   

WesternGeco Limited, UK (b)   

WesternGeco Seismic Holdings Limited, BVI (b)   

Schlumberger Technology Corporation, Texas (c)   
      
  7(a)           3(b)     4(c)   
     5                  
      
  1(b)  

WesternGeco L.L.C., Delaware (b)   

1    
     
    Includes eight majority-owned subsidiaries and one 50%-owned subsidiary.      

2    
     
    Includes one majority-owned subsidiary and one 50%-owned subsidiary.      

3    
     
    Includes three majority-owned subsidiaries and three 50%-owned subsidiaries.      

4    
     
    Includes two majority-owned subsidiaries.      

5    
     
    Includes one majority-owned subsidiary and one 50%-owned subsidiary.      

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 11
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23              Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm             We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form
S-8 (Nos. 33-86424; 333-62545; 333-36366; 333-36364; 333-67330; 333-104225; 333-115277; 333-124534; and 333-151920), on Form S-3 (No. 333-108730) and on Form S-4 (No. 333-97899) of Schlumberger Limited of our report dated February 11, 2009
relating to the consolidated financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.        

/s/    P RICEWATERHOUSE C OOPERS  LLP     
 
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   
 
  Houston, Texas   
 
  February 11, 2009   

</EX-23>

<EX-24.1>
 12
 dex241.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

Powers of Attorney 

Exhibit 24.1              Power of Attorney        
     Each of the undersigned, in the capacity or capacities set forth below his or her signature as a member of the Board of Directors and/or an officer of
Schlumberger Limited ( the Corporation ), a Netherlands Antilles corporation, hereby appoints Simon Ayat, Howard Guild and Ellen Summer, and each of them, the attorney or attorneys of the undersigned, with full power of substitution and
revocation, for and in the name, place and stead of the undersigned to execute and file with the Securities and Exchange Commission the Form 10-K Annual Report under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 for the year ending 2008, and any amendment or
amendments to any such Form 10-K Annual Report, and any agreements, consents or waivers relative thereto, and to take any and all such other action for and in the name and place and stead of the undersigned as may be necessary or desirable in
connection with any such Form 10-K Annual Report.         

/s/ Philippe Camus      Philippe Camus     Director   
      
    /s/ Michael E. Marks      Michael E. Marks     Director    

/s/ Jamie S. Gorelick      Jamie S. Gorelick     Director   
      
    /s/ Leo Rafael Reif      Leo Rafael Reif     Director    

/s/ Andrew Gould      Andrew Gould     Director     Chairman and Chief Executive Officer   
      
    /s/ Tore Sandvold      Tore Sandvold     Director    

/s/ Tony Isaac      Tony Isaac     Director   
      
    /s/ Nicolas Seydoux      Nicolas Seydoux     Director    

/s/ Nikolay Kudryavtsev      Nikolay Kudryavtsev     Director   
      
    /s/ Linda G. Stuntz      Linda G. Stuntz     Director    

/s/ Adrian Lajous      Adrian Lajous     Director   

Date:
January 22, 2009   

</EX-24.1>

<EX-31.1>
 13
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 302 

Exhibit
31.1              CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER             I, Andrew Gould, certify that:            1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Schlumberger Limited;            2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement
of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;            3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;            4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:         

a)  
     
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;           

b)  
     
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;           

c)  
     
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and           

d)  
     
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and              5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based
on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
     
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and           

b)  
     
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 11, 2009   
     
    /s/    Andrew Gould     

Andrew Gould    

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 14
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 302 

Exhibit 31.2              CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER             I, Simon Ayat, certify that:            1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Schlumberger Limited;
           2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;
           3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other
financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;            4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant
and have:         

a)  
     
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;           

b)  
     
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;           

c)  
     
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and           

d)  
     
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and              5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based
on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
     
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and           

b)  
     
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 11, 2009  
     
    /s/    Simon Ayat     

Simon Ayat   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 15
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification of CEO Pursuant to Section 906 

Exhibit 32.1              CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER        PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    
        In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger
Limited) (the  Company ) for the year ended December 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Andrew Gould, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:            (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange
Act ),            and            (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

Date: February 11, 2009  
     
    /s/    Andrew Gould     

Andrew Gould   

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer    
          A signed original of
this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Schlumberger Limited and will be retained by Schlumberger Limited and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.            This certification accompanies the Report pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 16
 dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification of CFO Pursuant to Section 906 

Exhibit 32.2              CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER        PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    
        In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger
Limited) (the  Company ) for the year ended December 31, 2008 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Simon Ayat, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:            (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange
Act ),            and            (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material
respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.         

Date: February 11, 2009   
      
    /s/    Simon Ayat     

Simon Ayat    

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    
          A signed original of
this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Schlumberger Limited and will be retained by Schlumberger Limited and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.            This certification accompanies the Report pursuant to Section 906 of the
Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.   

</EX-32.2>

