<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20130131_10-K_edgar_data_87347_0001193125-13-031766_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>16201259</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>193223</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>3741229</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2923131</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5911258</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3004854</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>113</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-13-031766.hdr.sgml : 20130131
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20130131122454
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-13-031766
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		16
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20121231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20130131
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20130131

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SCHLUMBERGER LTD /NV/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000087347
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	OIL, GAS FIELD SERVICES, NBC [1389]
		IRS NUMBER:				520684746
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			P8
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-04601
		FILM NUMBER:		13561609

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5599 SAN FELIPE
		STREET 2:		17TH FLOOR
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77056
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7135132000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5599 SAN FELIPE
		STREET 2:		17TH FLOOR
		CITY:			HOUSTON
		STATE:			TX
		ZIP:			77056

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SCHLUMBERGER NV
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920804

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	SCHLUMBERGER LTD
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19880812

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-13-031766.txt : 20130131

10-K
 1
 d456349d10k.htm
 FORM 10K

Form 10K 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      Washington, D.C. 20549
      Form 10-K    
   (Mark One)    
 
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2012    
    OR        
 
   For the transition period from                to
                      Commission File Number 1-4601
       Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger Limited)        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)        
    Registrant s telephone number in the United States, including area code, is:   
   (713) 375-3400       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:       

Title of each class   
     
   Name of each exchange on which registered    

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per
share  
     
    New York Stock Exchange     Euronext Paris     The London Stock Exchange  
  SIX Swiss Exchange    
    Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   
   None       Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES      NO       
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act. YES      NO          Indicate by check mark whether the
registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES      NO       
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File
required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files.)
YES      NO          Indicate by check
mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.          Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and
 smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.      Large accelerated filer
     Accelerated filer      Non-accelerated filer     Smaller reporting company          Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). YES      NO          As of
June 30, 2012, the aggregate market value of the common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $86.1 billion.      As of December 31, 2012, the number of shares of common stock outstanding was 1,328,255,773.       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Certain information required to be furnished pursuant
to Part III of this Form 10-K is set forth in, and is hereby incorporated by reference herein from, Schlumberger s definitive proxy statement for its 2013 Annual General Meeting of Stockholders, to be filed by Schlumberger with the Securities
and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A within 120 days after December 31, 2012 (the  2013 Proxy Statement ).       

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED      Table of Contents       Form 10-K    

Page   

PART I     

Item 1.   
        
     Business    

3  

Item 1A.   
        
     Risk Factors    

7  

Item 1B.   
        
     Unresolved Staff Comments    

10  

Item 2.   
        
     Properties    

10  

Item 3.   
        
     Legal Proceedings    

11  

Item 4.   
        
     Mine Safety Disclosures    

11  

PART II     

Item 5.   
        
   Market for Schlumberger s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

12  

Item 6.   
        
     Selected Financial Data    

14  

Item 7.   
        
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations    

15  

Item 7A.   
        
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk    

31  

Item 8.   
        
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data    

33  

Item 9.   
        
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure    

67  

Item 9A.   
        
     Controls and Procedures    

67  

Item 9B.   
        
     Other Information    

68  

PART III    

Item 10.   
        
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of Schlumberger    

68  

Item 11.   
        
     Executive Compensation    

68  

Item 12.   
        
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   

68  

Item 13.   
        
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    

68  

Item 14.   
        
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services    

68  

PART IV    

Item 15.   
        
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules    

68  

Signatures    

70  

Certifications  

2   

PA  RT I    

Item 1.    
    Business.          All
references in this report to  Registrant,   Company,   Schlumberger,   we  or  our  are to Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V., incorporated in Cura ao) and its consolidated subsidiaries.
     Founded in 1926, Schlumberger is the world s leading supplier of technology, integrated project management and
information solutions to the international oil and gas exploration and production industry. Having invented wireline logging as a technique for obtaining downhole data in oil and gas wells, Schlumberger today provides the industry s widest
range of products and services from exploration through production. As of December 31, 2012, the Company employed approximately 118,000 people of over 140 nationalities operating in approximately 85 countries. Schlumberger has principal
executive offices in Paris, Houston and The Hague.      Schlumberger operates in each of the major oilfield service markets,
managing its business through three Groups: Reservoir Characterization, Drilling and Production. Each Group consists of a number of technology-based service and product lines, or Technologies. These Technologies cover the entire life cycle of the
reservoir and correspond to a number of markets in which Schlumberger holds leading positions. The business is also reported through four geographic Areas: North America, Latin America, Europe/CIS/Africa and Middle East   Asia. Within these
Areas, a network of GeoMarket* regions provides logistical, technical and commercial coordination.      The role of the Groups and
Technologies is to ensure that Schlumberger provides the best possible service to customers and that it remains at the forefront of technology development. The Groups and Technologies are collectively responsible for driving excellence in execution
throughout their businesses, overseeing operational processes, resource allocation, personnel and delivering superior financial results. The GeoMarket structure offers customers a single point of contact at the local level for field operations and
brings together geographically focused teams to meet local needs and deliver customized solutions. The Areas and GeoMarkets are responsible for providing the most efficient and cost effective support possible to the operations.   
  The Groups are as follows:        Reservoir
Characterization Group     Consists of the principal Technologies involved in finding and defining hydrocarbon resources. These include WesternGeco, Wireline, Testing Services, Schlumberger Information Solutions and PetroTechnical
Services.       

WesternGeco  is the world s leading geophysical services company, providing comprehensive worldwide reservoir imaging, monitoring and
development services. WesternGeco offers the industry s most extensive multiclient data library.          

Wireline  provides the information necessary to evaluate subsurface formation rocks and fluids to plan and monitor well construction, and to
monitor and evaluate well production. Wireline offers both openhole and cased-hole services including wireline perforating.          

Testing Services  provides exploration and production pressure and flow-rate measurement services both at the surface and downhole. The
Technology also provides tubing-conveyed perforating services.          

Schlumberger Information Solutions  provides software, consulting, information management and IT infrastructure services that support core oil
and gas industry operational processes.          

PetroTechnical Services  supplies interpretation and integration of all exploration and production data types, as well as expert consulting
services for reservoir characterization, field development planning production enhancement and multi-disciplinary reservoir and production solutions. PetroTechnical Services also provides industry petrotechnical training solutions.
          Drilling Group     Consists of the principal Technologies involved in the drilling and positioning of oil
and gas wells and comprises Bits   Advanced Technologies, M-I SWACO, Geoservices, Drilling   Measurements, PathFinder, Drilling Tools   Remedial Services, Dynamic Pressure Management and Integrated Project Management well
construction projects.       

Bits   Advanced Technologies  designs, manufactures and markets roller cone and fixed cutter drill bits for all environments. The drill
bits include designs for premium market segments where faster penetration rates and      
         3   

increased footage provide significant economic benefits in lowering overall well costs. The technologies leverage proprietary modeling and simulation software for the design of
application-specific bits and cutting structures.          

M-I SWACO  is the leading supplier of drilling fluid systems engineered to improve drilling performance by anticipating fluids-related problems,
fluid systems and specialty equipment designed to optimize wellbore productivity and production technology solutions formulated to maximize production rates. The Technology also includes environmental solutions that safely manage waste volumes
generated in both drilling and production operations.          

Geoservices  supplies mud logging services for geological and drilling surveillance.      

Drilling   Measurements  and  PathFinder  provide directional-drilling, measurement-while-drilling and logging-while-drilling
services for all well profiles as well as engineering support.          

Drilling Tools   Remedial  provides a wide variety of bottom hole assembly drilling tools, borehole enlargement technologies and impact
tools, as well as a comprehensive collection of tubulars and tubular services for oil and gas drilling operations.          

Dynamic Pressure Management  consolidates managed pressure drilling and underbalanced drilling into a single provider of engineered solutions for
pressure drilling services.           Production Group     Consists of the principal Technologies involved in the
lifetime production of oil and gas reservoirs and includes Well Services, Completions, Artificial Lift, Well Intervention, Subsea, Water Services, Carbon Services and Schlumberger Production Management field production projects.   

Well Services  provides services used during oil and gas well drilling and completion as well as those used to maintain optimal production
throughout the life of a well. The services include pressure pumping, well cementing and stimulation operations as well as intervention activities.          

Completions  supplies well completion services and equipment that include packers, safety valves, sand control technology as well as a range of
intelligent well completions technology and equipment.          

Artificial Lift  provides production equipment and optimization services using electrical submersible pumps and gas lift equipment, as well as
surface horizontal pumping systems.          

Well Intervention  develops coiled tubing equipment and services and provides slickline services for downhole mechanical well intervention,
reservoir monitoring and downhole data acquisition.          

Subsea  offers solutions that are designed to improve reservoir recovery, optimize production and maximize production uptime of subsea assets.

Water Services  specializes in the development, management and environmental protection of water resources.      

Carbon Services  provides comprehensive geological storage solutions including storage site characterization for carbon dioxide.
        Schlumberger also offers customers its services through business models known as Integrated Project
Management (for well construction projects) and Schlumberger Production Management (for field production projects). These models combine the required services and products of the Technologies with both drilling rig management expertise and project
management skills to provide a complete solution to well construction and production improvement. Projects are typically of multiyear duration and include start-up costs and significant third-party components that cover services that Schlumberger
does not provide directly. Projects may be fixed price in nature, contain penalties for non-performance and may also offer opportunities for bonus payments where performance exceeds agreed targets. Integrated Project Management and Schlumberger
Production Management also provide specialized engineering and project management expertise when Schlumberger is requested to include these capabilities with services and products across the Technologies in a single contract. In no circumstances
does Schlumberger take any stake in the ownership of oil or gas reserves.   
         4   

Supporting the Technologies is a global network of research and engineering centers. Through
this organization, Schlumberger is committed to advanced technology programs that enhance oilfield efficiency, lower finding and producing costs, improve productivity, maximize reserve recovery and increase asset value while accomplishing these
goals in a safe and environmentally sound manner.      Managed outside the Group structure is Schlumberger Business Consulting,
which helps oil and gas companies achieve fast and sustainable performance improvements.      Schlumberger primarily uses its own
personnel to market its offerings. The customer base, business risks and opportunities for growth are essentially uniform across all services. There is a sharing of manufacturing and engineering facilities as well as research centers, and the labor
force is interchangeable. Technological innovation, quality of service and price differentiation are the principal methods of competition, which varies geographically with respect to the different services offered. While there are numerous
competitors, both large and small, Schlumberger believes that it is an industry leader in providing wireline logging, well testing, drilling and completion fluids, coiled-tubing, drill bits, measurement-while-drilling, logging-while-drilling and
directional-drilling services, mud logging, as well as fully computerized logging and geoscience software and computing services. A large proportion of Schlumberger offerings is non-rig related; consequently, revenue does not necessarily correlate
to rig count fluctuations.        Acquisitions        Schlumberger completed a number of acquisitions during 2012, none of which were significant. Information about acquisitions made by Schlumberger appears in Note 4 of the  Consolidated Financial
Statements .       GENERAL    
    Intellectual Property     
  Schlumberger and its affiliates own and control a variety of intellectual property, including but not limited to patents, proprietary
information and software tools and applications that, in the aggregate, are material to Schlumberger s business. While Schlumberger seeks and holds numerous patents covering various products and processes, no particular patent or group of
patents is considered material to Schlumberger s business.        Seasonality     
  Seasonal changes in weather and significant weather events can temporarily affect the delivery of oilfield services. For example, the
spring thaw in Canada and consequent road restrictions can affect activity levels, while the winter months in the North Sea, Russia and China can produce severe weather conditions which typically result in reduced levels of activity. Hurricanes
and typhoons can disrupt coastal and offshore operations. Additionally, customer spending patterns for multiclient data, software and other oilfield services and products generally result in higher activity in the fourth quarter of each year as
clients seek to utilize their annual budgets.       Customers and Backlog of Orders     
  For the year ended December 31, 2012, no single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue. Other than WesternGeco, Schlumberger
has no significant backlog due to the nature of its businesses. The WesternGeco backlog, which is based on signed contracts with customers, was $1.0 billion at December 31, 2012 ($1.0 billion at December 31, 2011).   
    Financial Information     
  Financial information by business segment and geographic area for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is provided in
Note 17 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements .   
         5   

Executive Officers of Schlumberger     
  The following table sets forth, as of January 31, 2013, the names and ages of the executive officers of Schlumberger, including all
offices and positions held by each for at least the past five years.       
      Available Information        The Schlumberger Internet website is  www.slb.com . Schlumberger uses its Investor Relations website,  www.slb.com/ir , as a channel for routine distribution of important information, including
news releases, analyst presentations, and financial information. Schlumberger makes available free of charge on or through its Investor Relations website at  www.slb.com/ir  access to its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form
10-Q, Current Reports on   
         6   

Form 8-K, its proxy statements and Forms 3, 4 and 5 filed on behalf of directors and executive officers, and amendments to each of those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after such
material is filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ). Alternatively, you may access these reports at the SEC s Internet website at  www.sec.gov .   
  Schlumberger s corporate governance materials, including Board Committee Charters, Corporate Governance Guidelines and Code of Ethics, may also be
found at  www.slb.com/ir . From time to time, corporate governance materials on our website may be updated to comply with rules issued by the SEC and the New York Stock Exchange ( NYSE ) or as desirable to promote the effective
governance of Schlumberger.      Any stockholder wishing to receive, without charge, a copy of any of
Schlumberger s SEC filings should write to the Secretary, Schlumberger Limited, 5599 San Felipe, 17   th    Floor, Houston, Texas 77056, USA.      Schlumberger has filed the required
certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Form 10-K.      The
information on our website or any other website is not incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this Form 10-K or any other filing Schlumberger makes with the SEC.   

Item 1A.    
    Risk   Factors.          The following discussion of risk factors are important information in understanding our  forward-looking statements,  which are discussed immediately following Item 7A. of this Form 10-K
and elsewhere. These risk factors should also be read in conjunction with Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included
in this Form 10-K.       We urge you to consider carefully the risks described below, as well as in other reports and materials
that we file with the SEC and the other information included or incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K. If any of the risks described below or elsewhere in this Form 10-K were to materialize, our business, financial condition, results of
operations, cash flows or prospects could be materially adversely affected. In such case, the trading price of our common stock could decline and you could lose part or all of your investment. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known
to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also materially adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.        Demand for the majority of our services is substantially dependent on the levels of expenditures by the oil and gas industry. A substantial or an extended decline in oil and gas prices could result in
lower expenditures by the oil and gas industry, which could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.       Demand for the majority of our services depends substantially on the level of expenditures by the oil and gas industry for the exploration, development and production of oil and natural gas reserves.
These expenditures are generally dependent on the industry s view of future oil and natural gas prices and are sensitive to the industry s view of future economic growth and the resulting impact on demand for oil and natural gas. Declines,
as well as anticipated declines, in oil and gas prices could also result in project modifications, delays or cancellations, general business disruptions, and delays in payment of, or nonpayment of, amounts that are owed to us. These effects could
have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.      The prices for oil and
natural gas have historically been volatile and can be affected by a variety of factors, including:       

demand for hydrocarbons, which is affected by general economic and business conditions;      

the ability of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries ( OPEC ) to set and maintain production levels for oil;

oil and gas production levels by non-OPEC countries;          

the level of excess production capacity;          

political and economic uncertainty and geopolitical unrest;      

the level of worldwide oil and gas exploration and production activity;      

access to potential resources;            

         7   

governmental policies and subsidies;          

the costs of exploring for, producing and delivering oil and gas;      

technological advances affecting energy consumption; and      

weather conditions.         The oil and gas industry has historically experienced periodic downturns, which have been characterized by diminished demand for oilfield services and downward pressure on the prices we charge. A
significant downturn in the oil and gas industry could result in a reduction in demand for oilfield services and could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   
   A significant portion of our revenue is derived from our non-United States operations, which exposes us to risks inherent in doing business in each of
the approximately 85 countries in which we operate.       Our non-United States operations accounted for approximately 72% of
our consolidated revenue in 2012, 71% in 2011 and 78% in 2010. Operations in countries other than the United States are subject to various risks, including:       

political and economic conditions in certain areas;          

exposure to possible expropriation of our assets or other governmental actions;      

social unrest, acts of terrorism, war or other armed conflict;      

confiscatory taxation or other adverse tax policies;          

deprivation of contract rights;          

trade restrictions or embargoes imposed by the United States or other countries;      

restrictions under the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act or similar legislation in other countries;      

restrictions on the repatriation of income or capital;      

currency exchange controls;          

inflation; and          

currency exchange rate fluctuations and devaluations.         In addition, we are subject to risks associated with our operations in countries, including Iran, Syria, North Sudan and Cuba, that are subject to trade and economic sanctions or other restrictions
imposed by the United States or other governments or organizations. United States law enforcement authorities are currently conducting a grand jury investigation and an associated regulatory inquiry related to our operations in certain of these
countries. Additionally, in 2009 prior to being acquired by Schlumberger, Smith International, Inc. received an administrative subpoena with respect to its historical business practices in certain countries that are subject to United States trade
and economic sanctions. If any of the risks described above materialize, or if any governmental investigation results in criminal or civil penalties or other remedial measures, it could reduce our earnings and our cash available for operations.
     We are also subject to risks related to investment in our common stock in connection with certain US state divestment or
investment limitation legislation applicable to companies with operations in these countries, and similar actions by some private investors, which could adversely affect the market price of our common stock.   
  During 2012, certain non-U.S. subsidiaries of Schlumberger provided oilfield services to the National Iranian Oil Company and certain of
its affiliates ( NIOC ). Schlumberger has not bid on any new contracts relating to Iran s petroleum production since March 2009. Schlumberger s full-year 2012 revenue attributable to this activity was $418 million, which resulted
in net income of $208 million in its consolidated financial statements. Schlumberger intends to discontinue such activity in Iran in 2013 and is currently winding down its operations there. In this regard, during the fourth quarter of 2012,
Schlumberger recorded revenue relating to this activity in Iran of $92 million and net income of $48 million in its consolidated financial statements. This activity included obtaining services from and engaging in other dealings with the government
of Iran that are incidental to operating in Iran, and the expenses of which are reflected in the net income disclosed above. These services and other dealings consisted of paying taxes, duties, license fees and other typical governmental charges,
along with payments for utilities, transportation, hotel accommodations, facility rentals,   
         8   

telecommunications services, newspaper advertisements, recreational and fitness memberships, and the purchase of routine office and similar supplies from entities associated with the government
of Iran. Collections of amounts owed to Schlumberger were received in part by depository accounts held by two non-U.S. subsidiaries of Schlumberger at a branch of Bank Saderat Iran ( Saderat ), and in part by a depositary account held by
one of such non-U.S. subsidiaries at Bank Tejarat ( Tejarat ) in Tehran. The accounts at Saderat are maintained solely for the deposit by NIOC of amounts owed to non-U.S. subsidiaries of Schlumberger. The account at Tejarat is maintained
also for payment of expenses in connection with operating in Iran, such as payroll expenses, rental payments and taxes. In addition, NIOC maintains bank accounts at Bank Melli Iran ( Melli ) through which it made payments to a non-U.S.
subsidiary of Schlumberger for services provided in Iran under letters of credit issued by Melli. Schlumberger maintains no bank accounts at Melli. Schlumberger will discontinue its dealings with Melli, Saderat and Tejarat following the receipt of
all amounts owed to Schlumberger for services in Iran.       Environmental compliance costs and liabilities could reduce our earnings and cash
available for operations.       We are subject to increasingly stringent laws and regulations relating to importation and use of
hazardous materials, radioactive materials and explosives and to environmental protection, including laws and regulations governing air emissions, water discharges and waste management. We incur, and expect to continue to incur, capital and
operating costs to comply with environmental laws and regulations. The technical requirements of these laws and regulations are becoming increasingly complex, stringent and expensive to implement. These laws may provide for  strict
liability  for remediation costs, damages to natural resources or threats to public health and safety. Strict liability can render a party liable for damages without regard to negligence or fault on the part of the party. Some environmental
laws provide for joint and several strict liability for remediation of spills and releases of hazardous substances.      We use and
generate hazardous substances and wastes in our operations. In addition, many of our current and former properties are, or have been, used for industrial purposes. Accordingly, we could become subject to material liabilities relating to the
investigation and cleanup of potentially contaminated properties, and to claims alleging personal injury or property damage as the result of exposures to, or releases of, hazardous substances. In addition, stricter enforcement of existing laws and
regulations, new laws and regulations, the discovery of previously unknown contamination or the imposition of new or increased requirements could require us to incur costs or become the basis of new or increased liabilities that could reduce our
earnings and our cash available for operations. We believe we are currently in substantial compliance with environmental laws and regulations.   
   We could be subject to substantial liability claims, which could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
      The technical complexities of our operations are such that we are exposed to a wide range of significant health, safety
and environmental risks. Our offerings involve production-related activities, radioactive materials, explosives and other equipment and services that are deployed in challenging exploration, development and production environments. An accident
involving these services or equipment, or a failure of a product, could cause personal injury, loss of life, damage to or destruction of property, equipment or the environment, or suspension of operations. Our insurance may not protect us against
liability for some kinds of events, including events involving pollution, or against losses resulting from business interruption. Moreover, we may not be able to maintain insurance at levels of risk coverage or policy limits that we deem adequate.
Any damages caused by our services or products that are not covered by insurance, or are in excess of policy limits or are subject to substantial deductibles, could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
      Demand for our products and services could be reduced by changes in governmental regulations or in the law.    
  Some international, national and state governments and agencies are currently evaluating and promulgating climate-related legislation and
regulations that are focused on restricting greenhouse gas emissions. Such legislation, as well as government initiatives to conserve energy or to promote the use of alternative energy sources, may significantly curtail demand for and production of
fossil fuels such as oil and gas in areas of the world where our customers operate and thus adversely affect future demand for our services, which may in turn adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.
     Some international, national and state governments and agencies have also adopted laws and regulations or are evaluating
proposed legislation and regulations that are focused on the extraction of shale gas or oil using hydraulic fracturing. Hydraulic fracturing is a stimulation treatment routinely performed on oil and gas wells in low-permeability reservoirs.
Specially engineered fluids are pumped at high pressure and rate into the reservoir interval to be treated,   
         9   

causing cracks in the target formation. Proppant, such as sand of a particular size, is mixed with the treatment fluid to keep the cracks open when the treatment is complete. Future hydraulic
fracturing-related legislation or regulations could lead to operational delays and increased costs and, therefore, reduce demand for our pressure pumping services. If such additional international, national or state legislation or regulations are
enacted, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.       If we are unable to maintain technology
leadership, this could adversely affect any competitive advantage we hold.       If we are unable to continue to develop and
produce competitive technology or deliver it to our clients in a timely and cost-competitive manner in the various markets we serve, it could adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.   
   Limitations on our ability to protect our intellectual property rights, including our trade secrets, could cause a loss in revenue and any competitive
advantage we hold.       Some of our products or services, and the processes we use to produce or provide them, have been
granted patent protection, have patent applications pending or are trade secrets. Our business may be adversely affected if our patents are unenforceable, the claims allowed under our patents are not sufficient to protect our technology, our patent
applications are denied, or our trade secrets are not adequately protected. Our competitors may be able to develop technology independently that is similar to ours without infringing on our patents or gaining access to our trade secrets, which could
adversely affect our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.       We may be subject to litigation if another party claims
that we have infringed upon its intellectual property rights.       The tools, techniques, methodologies, programs and
components we use to provide our services may infringe upon the intellectual property rights of others. Infringement claims generally result in significant legal and other costs and may distract management from running our core business. Royalty
payments under licenses from third parties, if available, would increase our costs. If a license were not available, we might not be able to continue providing a particular service or product, which could adversely affect our financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows. Additionally, developing non-infringing technologies would increase our costs.       Failure to obtain and
retain skilled technical personnel could impede our operations.       We require highly skilled personnel to operate and provide
technical services and support for our business. Competition for the personnel required for our businesses intensifies as activity increases. In periods of high utilization it may become more difficult to find and retain qualified
individuals. This could increase our costs or have other adverse effects on our operations.       Severe weather conditions may affect our
operations.       Our business may be materially affected by severe weather conditions in areas where we operate. This may
entail the evacuation of personnel and stoppage of services. In addition, if particularly severe weather affects platforms or structures, this may result in a suspension of activities. Any of these events could adversely affect our financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows.       

Item 1B.    
    Unres  olved Staff Comments.          None.       

Ite  m 2.    
    Properties.       
  Schlumberger owns or leases numerous manufacturing facilities, administrative offices, service centers, research centers, data processing
centers, mines, ore, drilling fluid and production chemical processing centers, sales offices and warehouses throughout the world. Schlumberger views its principal manufacturing, mining and processing facilities, research centers and data processing
centers as its  principal owned or leased facilities.    
         10   

The following sets forth Schlumberger s principal owned or leased facilities:
     Beijing, China; Clamart, France; Mumbai, India; Fuchinobe, Japan; Oslo, Norway; Singapore; Abingdon, Cambridge and Stonehouse,
United Kingdom; Moscow, Russia; and within the United States: Boston, Massachusetts; Houston, Rosharon and Sugar Land, Texas; Battle Mountain, Nevada; Greybull, Wyoming and Florence, Kentucky.   

Item 3.    
    Legal Proceedings.       
  The information with respect to Item 3. Legal Proceedings is set forth in Note 16 of the  Consolidated Financial Statements .

Item 4.    
    Mine Safety Disclosures.          The barite and bentonite mining operations of M-I LLC, an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary, are subject to regulation by the federal Mine Safety and Health Administration under the Federal Mine Safety and
Health Act of 1977. Information concerning mine safety violations or other regulatory matters required by section 1503(a) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and Item 104 of Regulation S-K is included in Exhibit 95
to this Form 10-K.   
         11   

PART II    

Item 5.    
    Market for Schlumberger s Common Stock, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.       
  As of December 31, 2012, there were approximately 22,455 stockholders of record. The principal United States market for
Schlumberger s common stock is the NYSE, where it is traded under the symbol  SLB,  although it is traded on other exchanges in and outside the United States, including the Euronext Paris, the London Stock Exchange and the SIX Swiss
Exchange.         Common Stock, Market Prices and Dividends Declared per Share      
  Quarterly high and low prices for Schlumberger s common stock as reported by the NYSE (composite transactions), together with
dividends declared per share in each quarter of 2012 and 2011, were:       
    On January 17, 2013, Schlumberger announced that its Board of Directors had approved an increase in
the quarterly dividend of 13.6%, to $0.3125.      There are no legal restrictions on the payment of dividends or ownership or
voting of such shares, except as to shares held as treasury stock. Under current legislation, stockholders are not subject to any Cura ao withholding or other Cura ao taxes attributable to the ownership of such shares.   
  The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on Schlumberger common stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends on
the last day of the month of payment into common stock of Schlumberger, with the cumulative total return on the Standard   Poor s 500 Index (S P 500 Index) and the cumulative total return on the Philadelphia Oil Service Index (OSX)
over the five-year period ended December 31, 2012. The stockholder return set forth below is not necessarily indicative of future performance. The following graph and related information shall not be deemed  soliciting material  or to
be  filed  with the SEC, nor shall such information be incorporated by reference into any future filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that Schlumberger specifically
incorporates it by reference into such filing.   
         12   

Comparison of five-year cumulative total return among   
  Schlumberger common stock, the S P 500 Index and the      Philadelphia Oil Service Index (OSX)         

Assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2007 in Schlumberger common stock, in the S P 500 Index
and in the Philadelphia Oil Service Index (OSX) and reinvestment of dividends on the last day of the month of payment.        Share
Repurchases        On April 17, 2008, the Schlumberger Board of Directors approved an $8 billion share repurchase
program for Schlumberger common stock, to be acquired in the open market before December 31, 2011. On July 21, 2011, the Board of Directors approved an extension of this repurchase program to December 31, 2013.   
  Schlumberger did not repurchase any common stock during the three months ended December 31, 2012. The maximum value of shares that
may be purchased under this program as of December 31, 2012 was $879 million.      In connection with the exercise of stock
options under Schlumberger s incentive compensation plans, Schlumberger routinely receives shares of its common stock from optionholders in consideration of the exercise price of the stock options. Schlumberger does not view these transactions
as requiring disclosure under this Item 5 as the number of shares of Schlumberger common stock received from optionholders is not material.        Unregistered Sales of Equity Securities        As discussed in Note 13 of
the  Consolidated Financial Statements , Schlumberger maintains a Discounted Stock Purchase Plan (the  DSPP ), which was established in 1988. The DSPP provides for two purchase periods each calendar year: January 1 to
June 30 and July 1 to December 31. Schlumberger filed registration statements with the SEC to register the shares initially available for purchase under the DSPP as well as to register additional shares that were approved by
Schlumberger stockholders in 2005. In 2010, Schlumberger stockholders approved an amendment to the DSPP that, among other things, increased the number of shares available for purchase under the DSPP by 10,000,000 shares. In December 2012,
Schlumberger discovered that it had inadvertently failed to file a registration statement with the SEC to register the additional DSPP shares approved in 2010. In December 2012, Schlumberger registered the sale of the shares that remain available
for purchase under the DSPP. Prior to such registration, however, some of the shares Schlumberger sold under the DSPP were unregistered. With respect to the six-month   
         13   

purchase period ending June 30, 2012, 2,197,151 unregistered shares were sold at a discounted purchase price of $59.89 per share, resulting in cash proceeds of approximately $132 million.
The Company believes that it has historically provided participants in the DSPP with the same information they would have received had the registration statement been filed. Nonetheless, original purchasers of the unregistered shares may have
rescission rights with respect to the shares purchased by them with respect to the six-month purchase period ended June 30, 2012. Schlumberger believes that any liability resulting from a potential rescission would be immaterial, particularly
in light of the fact that the market price of Schlumberger s common stock has exceeded the participants  discounted purchase price since the date of purchase.   

Item 6.    
    Selected Financial Data.          The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with both  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
and  Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Form 10-K in order to understand factors, such as business combinations and charges and credits, which may affect the comparability of the Selected Financial Data:

(1)    
     Net Debt  represents gross debt less cash, short-term investments and fixed income investments, held to maturity. Management believes that
Net Debt provides useful information regarding the level of Schlumberger indebtedness by reflecting cash and investments that could be used to repay debt.      
         14   

Item 7.    
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.       
  The following discussion and analysis contains forward-looking statements, including, without limitation, statements relating to our
plans, strategies, objectives, expectations, intentions and resources. Such forward-looking statements should be read in conjunction with our disclosures under  Item 1A. Risk Factors  of this Form 10-K.   
    Executive Overview     
  Schlumberger revenue reached a new high of $42.15 billion in 2012   an increase of 14% over 2011   driven by robust exploration
and development both offshore and in key land markets. Outside North America, revenue grew 16%, while North America revenue grew 9%, with strong offshore activity in the US Gulf of Mexico outweighing a challenging land market.   
  Global demand for oil recorded annual growth of some 0.8 million barrels per day for the second year running following the
exceptionally strong recovery of 2010. Lower demand in the OECD countries through energy efficiency gains tempered stronger growth in the non-OECD economies and in China in particular. Oil supply grew by more than one million barrels per day in
North America as light tight oil production accelerated although this was partially offset by decline in a number of non-OPEC countries. Within OPEC, production in Libya continued to recover leading to a slight increase in spare capacity, which
remained relatively slim. This, together with ongoing geopolitical tension and the associated risk of supply disruption, continued to support oil prices.      For natural gas, the three main markets continued to behave independently. In North America, storage levels remained at record highs throughout the year as a result of growing domestic production and mild
weather that pushed spot prices to 10-year lows in April. Toward the end of the year, however, storage levels returned closer to historical averages. In Asia, natural gas prices remained close to oil parity, supported by sustained high demand in
Japan following the 2011 nuclear incident and by strong demand in China. In Europe, lower demand was offset by declining domestic supply and the effect of demand in Asia.      In this environment, Schlumberger achieved a record high for revenue, with strong contributions from all Areas. International performance was led by the Europe/CIS/Africa Area, where revenue was up 18%,
mainly from strength in Russia and in the Nigeria   Gulf of Guinea, Angola, East Africa and North Sea GeoMarkets. In Latin America, revenue grew by 17%, driven by Integrated Project Management contracts on land, and activity for Wireline
services and Drilling Group product and services offshore   mainly in the Mexico   Central America; Venezuela, Trinidad   Tobago; and Ecuador GeoMarkets. Revenue in the Middle East   Asia Area increased by 13% on
strong results in the Saudi Arabia   Bahrain, Australasia, Brunei, Malaysia   Philippines, and China GeoMarkets. And in North America, revenue grew by $1.2 billion to reach $13.5 billion, driven by a robust 38% increase in demand
for deepwater and exploration services offshore, particularly in the US Gulf of Mexico. Revenue from North America land also improved a modest 4% on strong demand for Production Group technology, although this was tempered by weakness in the
hydraulic fracturing market.      All Product Groups recorded double-digit revenue growth. Reservoir Characterization revenue of
$11.4 billion increased by 15%, with all Technologies also posting double-digit growth driven by offshore exploration activity across the Areas. Drilling Group revenue increased 15% to $16.0 billion, led by strong growth in M-I SWACO,
Drilling   Measurements, and Drilling Tools   Remedial technologies. Production Group revenue of $14.9 billion increased 13%, with double-digit growth in Well Intervention, Completions and Artificial Lift Technologies. Well
Services revenue also increased, primarily from offshore activity.      Entering 2013, the world macroeconomic environment remains
uncertain with the GDP growth outlook unchanged. However, global oil demand is expected to grow at similar levels to those seen in 2012 and 2011 and supply will see further growth in North America as light tight oil production increases. Other
non-OPEC production, however, can be expected to continue to face delays and decline challenges. As a result, global spare capacity should remain largely unchanged absent any unexpected macroeconomic or geopolitical events, and this will support oil
prices within the band we have seen since 2011. For natural gas, little change is expected in the behavior of the main geographical markets in 2013.   
         15   

The following discussion and analysis of results of operations should be read in conjunction
with the  Consolidated Financial Statements .        Fourth Quarter 2012 Results     
    Product Groups         
      Geographic Areas     

(  1  )   
      Comprised principally of corporate expenses not allocated to the segments,
interest on postretirement medical benefits, stock-based compensation costs, amortization expense associated with intangible assets recorded as a result of the 2010 acquisition of Smith International, Inc. ( Smith ) and certain other
nonoperating items.      

(  2  )    
    Excludes interest income included in the segments  income (fourth quarter 2012   $- million; third quarter 2012   $- million).

(  4  )   
      Charges and credits are described in detail in Note 3 to the  Consolidated
Financial Statements .            Oilfield Services      
  Fourth-quarter revenue of $11.17 billion increased $567 million or 5% sequentially, on robust international activity. Of the revenue
increase, approximately 36% came from the typical year-end surge in product and software sales, and 12% came from the increase in WesternGeco multiclient sales. Reservoir Characterization Group revenue grew 8% to reach $3.2 billion, while Drilling
Group revenue of $4.1 billion was 2% higher. Production Group revenue increased 7% to $3.9 billion. Geographically, International revenue of $7.6 billion increased $409 million or 6% sequentially, while North America revenue of $3.4 billion grew by
$118 million or 4% sequentially.   
         16   

The sequential increase in Reservoir Characterization Group revenue resulted mainly from
robust international end-of-year Schlumberger Information Solutions (SIS) software sales. Testing Services grew for the third successive quarter from higher activity in the Saudi Arabia   Bahrain GeoMarket. PetroTechnical Services posted
double-digit revenue growth on strong consulting activity in the Mexico   Central America GeoMarket. WesternGeco increased slightly as the end-of-year multiclient sales and UniQ* land seismic technology direct sale in Russia were partly
offset by a sharp seasonal decline in Marine revenue on lower vessel utilization following the seasonal transits out of the North Sea. Wireline revenue grew from increased activity in the US Gulf of Mexico but this was largely offset by a seasonal
activity decline in Asia. Drilling Group revenue increased on international and offshore demand for Drilling   Measurements and M-I SWACO technologies. Drilling Tools   Remedial Services also contributed to growth with the
full-quarter revenue from Radius services. IPM improved slightly as the combination of an increase in projects in Australia and new start-ups in Iraq and Argentina was partly offset by project completions in North Africa. The increase in Production
Group revenue resulted primarily from stronger Completions and Artificial Lift product year- end sales coupled with new Framo subsea projects in the US Gulf of Mexico and in the North Sea and Angola GeoMarkets. Well Intervention Services revenue
also increased on higher activity in the Mexico   Central America and Saudi Arabia   Bahrain GeoMarkets. Well Services revenue grew mainly due to higher activity in international and offshore North America markets. Well Services
stage count in North America land also increased, but revenue declined from continued pricing weakness as a result of hydraulic horsepower oversupply.      Among the Areas, Middle East   Asia revenue of $2.6 billion grew 10% sequentially led by the start of new IPM turnkey projects in Iraq; higher Testing, Well Intervention and Drilling Group
services in addition to year-end product sales in the Saudi Arabia   Bahrain GeoMarket; the start of the Jurassic seismic project as well as strong product and year-end software sales in Kuwait; and the increase in IPM onshore projects and
strong drilling activity in the Australasia GeoMarket. In Latin America, revenue of $2.1 billion increased 11% sequentially led by robust year-end software and product sales, strong PetroTechnical Services consulting activity, unconventional
fracturing and well intervention stimulation activity in the Mexico   Central America GeoMarket. Higher WesternGeco vessel utilization for new seismic acquisition surveys in Brazil, Trinidad and Uruguay, coupled with the start of an IPM
project in Argentina, also contributed to the increase. In Europe/CIS/Africa, revenue of $3.0 billion declined 1% mainly due to lower WesternGeco vessel utilization following the seasonal transit of vessels out of the North Sea. Completed IPM
projects and service contract delays in North Africa and the completion of the WesternGeco survey in the Kara Sea in Russia also contributed to the decline. The sequential decrease, however, was partially offset by increased activity in Angola and
higher product and software sales in the Russia and Central Asia region and the Continental Europe GeoMarket. North America revenue of $3.4 billion increased 4% sequentially mainly from offshore which rose by 24%, while land fell by 2%. The
increase in offshore revenue resulted from both higher drilling activity as the number of deepwater drilling rigs increased and stronger year-end WesternGeco multiclient sales. The decline in land revenue was mainly due to continued pricing weakness
for Well Services hydraulic fracturing activities. A seasonal decline in deviated and horizontal land drilling activity paired with pricing weakness also affected the Drilling Group segment in North America.   
  On a worldwide basis, fourth-quarter pretax operating income of $2.2 billion increased 1% sequentially. International pretax operating
income of $1.6 billion grew 1%, while North America pretax operating income of $655 million increased 7%.      Pretax operating
margin of 19.4% declined 83 basis points (bps) sequentially. International pretax operating margin of 20.5% declined 104 bps, which stemmed from a higher-than-usual seasonal slowdown and contractual delays in the Europe/CIS/Africa Area that
traditionally attract higher margins. In North America, pretax operating margin of 19.2% increased 65 bps sequentially due to the increased contribution of high-margin offshore services, particularly in the US Gulf of Mexico, which more than offset
margin decline in Drilling Group and Well Services activities on land. By segment, Reservoir Characterization Group pretax operating margin reached 29.1% while the pretax operating margins of the Drilling and Production Groups were 16.8% and 15.0%,
respectively.       Reservoir Characterization Group       Fourth-quarter revenue of $3.15 billion increased $240 million or 8% sequentially. Pretax operating income of $917 million was 9% higher sequentially.   
  Revenue increased mainly through robust international end-of-year SIS software sales while Testing Services grew for the third successive
quarter from higher activity in the Saudi Arabia   Bahrain and Mexico   Central America   
         17   

GeoMarkets. PetroTechnical Services revenue also posted double-digit growth on strong consulting activity in the Mexico   Central America GeoMarket. WesternGeco increased slightly as the
end-of-year multiclient sales and UniQ land seismic technology direct sale in Russia were partly offset by the sharp seasonal decline in Marine revenue on lower vessel utilization following seasonal transits out of the North Sea. Wireline grew
slightly on increased activity in the US Gulf of Mexico following the recovery from the activity shut-down associated with Hurricane Isaac in the previous quarter, but this was offset by a seasonal activity decline in Asia, mainly in the Australasia
and China GeoMarkets.      Pretax operating margin of 29.1% increased 31 bps sequentially. Margin expansion was primarily due to
traditionally strong end-of-year sales of Schlumberger Information Services (SIS) software and WesternGeco multiclient licenses. Testing Services, Wireline and PetroTechnical Services margins also expanded on a more favorable technology mix in
exploration and development projects. These improvements were, however, subdued by lower WesternGeco Marine margin as a result of lower vessel utilization.       Drilling Group       Fourth-quarter revenue of $4.1 billion increased $88 million
or 2% sequentially. Pretax operating income of $696 million was 5% lower sequentially.      Revenue increased on international and
offshore demand for Drilling   Measurements and M-I SWACO products and services. Drilling Tools   Remedial Services activity also contributed to growth with a full-quarter of revenue for Radius services. IPM revenue grew slightly,
as increased projects in Australia and new start-ups in Iraq and Argentina were partly offset by project completions in North Africa. The overall revenue increase was tempered by a decline in drilling-related services, mainly in North America land,
due to a seasonal decline in deviated and horizontal drilling activity coupled with pricing weakness.      Pretax operating margin
of 16.8% decreased 128 bps sequentially. Among the Group Technologies, sequential margins in Drilling   Measurements and Drilling Tools   Remedial Services were flat, while margin contractions were recorded at M-I SWACO and IPM due
to geographical mix and operational and start-up delays.       Production Group    
  Fourth-quarter revenue of $3.9 billion increased $249 million or 7% sequentially. Pretax operating income of $590 million was 8% higher
sequentially.      The increase in revenue resulted primarily from stronger Completions and Artificial Lift product year-end sales
coupled with new Framo subsea projects in the US Gulf of Mexico and in the North Sea and Angola GeoMarkets. Well Intervention Services revenue increased on higher activity in the Mexico   Central America and Saudi Arabia   Bahrain
GeoMarkets. Well Services revenue grew mainly due to higher activity in the international and the North America offshore markets. International activities were strong from stimulation vessel operations in Brazil, unconventional fracturing activity
in Mexico, and new projects in Kuwait and Iraq. Well Services stage count in North America land also grew but land revenue declined on continued pricing weakness from the oversupply of hydraulic horsepower.   
  Pretax operating margin increased 13 bps sequentially to 15%. The increase was largely attributable to the favorable impact of year-end
Completions and Artificial Lift product sales coupled with improved profitability from new Framo subsea projects. This margin increase was largely offset by continued Well Services pricing weakness.   
         18   

Full-Year 2012 Results     
    Product Groups         
      Geographic Areas     

(1)    
    Effective January 1, 2012, a component of the Drilling Group was reallocated to the Production Group. Historical information has been reclassified
to conform to this presentation.      

(2)    
    Comprised principally of corporate expenses not allocated to the segments, interest on postretirement medical benefits, stock-based compensation costs,
amortization expense associated with intangible assets recorded as a result of the acquisition of Smith and certain other nonoperating items.      

(5)    
    Charges and credits are described in detail in Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements .      
    Oilfield Services     
  Full-year 2012 revenue of $42.15 billion increased 14% versus the same period last year with North America Area 9% higher and
international activity 16% higher. Internationally, higher exploration and development activities in a   
         19   

number of GeoMarkets both offshore and in key land markets contributed to the increase. The increase was led by the Europe/CIS/Africa Area which increased 18%, mainly in Russia and in the
Nigeria   Gulf of Guinea, Angola, the East Africa and North Sea Africa GeoMarkets. Latin America was higher by 17%, mainly in the Mexico   Central America; Venezuela, Trinidad   Tobago; and Ecuador GeoMarkets driven by
strong Integrated Project Management (IPM) activity on land and robust offshore activity for Wireline and Drilling Group services and products. Middle East   Asia increased 13% on strong results in the Saudi Arabia   Bahrain;
Australasia; Brunei, Malaysia   Philippines; and China GeoMarkets. The increase in North America was due to strong growth in North America offshore driven by robust deepwater and exploration activity that benefited the Reservoir
Characterization and Drilling Groups Technologies. There was also an improvement in activity in North America land for the Production Group Technologies although the increase slowed in the second half of the year due to the weakness in the hydraulic
fracturing market.      Full-year 2012 pretax operating income of $8.3 billion increased 14% year-on-year as international pretax
operating income of $5.8 billion increased 31% while North America pretax operating income of $2.7 billion declined by 10% year-on-year.      Pretax operating margin was essentially flat at 19.8% as international pretax operating margin expanded 226 bps to 20.5% while North America pretax operating margin declined 448 bps to 20.3%.
Europe/CIS/Africa posted a 435 bps improvement to reach 19.6% and Latin America increased 175 bps to 18.4% and Middle East   Asia reported a 27 bps increase to 23.4%. North America margin decline was due to Well Services production
technologies, as a result of pricing pressure and cost inflation.       Reservoir Characterization Group    
  Full-year revenue of $11.42 billion was 15% higher than the same period last year led by Wireline, Testing Services, WesternGeco and SIS
Technologies driven by improved offshore exploration activities across all Areas Pretax operating margin increased 345 bps to 28.1% largely due to the higher-margin exploration activities that benefited Wireline and Testing Services, higher SIS
software sales, higher WesternGeco marine vessel utilization and improved UniQ land seismic productivity.       Drilling Group    
  Full-year revenue of $15.97 billion was 15% higher than the previous year primarily due to the significantly improved exploration and
development activities of M-I SWACO, Drilling   Measurements, and the other Drilling Group Technologies in North America offshore and in the international markets.      Pretax operating margin increased 142 bps to 17.7% primarily due to the increase in higher-margin activities of Drilling   Measurements, M-I SWACO and Drilling Tools   Remedial
technologies   all of which benefited from exploration activities in North America offshore and in the international markets   mainly in the Europe/CIS/Africa Area.       Production Group       Full-year revenue of $14.88 billion increased 13%
year-on-year, both in North America and the international markets. Well Intervention, Artificial Lift and Completions Technologies posted strong growth across all Areas. Well Services grew both in North America and internationally, with
international growth led by Latin America and by Europe/CIS/Africa.      Pretax operating margin decreased 414 bps to 15.9% mainly due to a decline
in margins for Well Services production technologies, primarily in North America, as a result of pricing pressure and cost inflation. This was mitigated by margin expansion for the other Production Group Technologies led by Well Intervention
Services and Completions.   
         20   

Full-Year 2011 Results     
    Product Groups         
      Geographic Areas     

(1)      
      Effective January 1, 2012, a component of the Drilling Group was
reallocated to the Production Group. Historical information has been reclassified to conform to this presentation.      

(    2    )      
      Comprised principally of corporate expenses not allocated to the segments,
interest on postretirement medical benefits, stock-based compensation costs, amortization expense associated with intangible assets recorded as a result of the acquisition of Smith and certain other nonoperating items.      

(    5    )      
      Charges and credits are described in detail in Note 3 to the  Consolidated
Financial Statements .      
         21   

Oilfield Services         Full-year 2011 revenue of $37.0 billion was 39% higher than 2010 primarily reflecting the acquisition of Smith on August 27, 2010 as well as the significantly improved activity, pricing and asset
efficiency for Well Services Technologies in North America as the market transitioned to liquid-rich plays demanding increasing service intensity in drilling and completing horizontal wells.   
  Year-on-year pretax operating margin increased 79 bps to 19.8% largely due to the improved pricing and asset efficiency for Well Services
Technologies in North America and the resumption of higher-margin activity in the US Gulf of Mexico. However, the margin expansion was tempered by activity disruptions from the geopolitical unrest in North Africa and in the Middle East during the
first quarter of 2011.       Reservoir Characterization Group       Full-year revenue of $9.93 billion was 7% higher than the previous year on stronger Wireline activity, higher WesternGeco marine and multiclient sales, and increased SIS software sales.   
  Year-on-year, pretax operating margin decreased 23 bps to 24.7% led by margin declines in Wireline and Testing Services, largely due to
the revenue mix, as well as the impact of geopolitical events which prevailed during the first quarter of 2011. The margin decline however was partially offset by a favorable WesternGeco multiclient sales mix and improved marine vessel utilization.
      Drilling Group    
  Full-year revenue of $13.86 billion was 75% higher than the previous year reflecting the acquisitions of Smith, in August 2010, and
Geoservices, in April 2010, partially offset by a decrease in IPM activities in Mexico. The ramp-up of IPM projects in Iraq also contributed to the revenue increase.      Year-on-year, pretax operating margin decreased 32 bps to 16.3% largely due to the addition of the Smith and Geoservices activities as well as the effects of the geopolitical events.   
   Production Group       Full-year
revenue of $13.14 billion was 40% higher than the previous year while pretax operating margin increased 525 bps to 20.1%. Well Services revenue and margins expanded strongly in North America on higher pricing, capacity additions and improved asset
utilization and efficiency as the market transitioned to liquid-rich plays. Internationally, Well Services also posted growth on the strength of higher activity, despite the exceptional geopolitical events that occurred during the first quarter of
2011.        Interest and Other Income        Interest and other income consisted of the following:       
    Equity income from the M-I SWACO joint venture in 2010 represented eight months of equity income through
the closing of the Smith transaction.         Interest Expense      
  Interest expense of $340 million in 2012 increased by $42 million compared to 2011 primarily due to the $1 billion of $1.25% Senior Notes
due 2017 and $1 billion of 2.40% Senior Notes due 2022 that Schlumberger issued during 2012.      Interest expense of $298 million in 2011
increased by $91 million compared to 2010 primarily due to the $4.6 billion of long-term debt that Schlumberger issued during 2011.   
         22   

Other          Research   engineering  and  General   administrative  expenses, as a percentage of  Revenue , were as follows:   
   
    Although  Research   engineering  decreased as a percentage of revenue in 2011 as compared
to 2010, it increased in absolute dollars by $154 million. This increase in absolute dollars was driven in large part by the impact of the Smith acquisition.         Income Taxes         The Schlumberger effective tax rate was 24.0% in
2012, 24.2% in 2011, and 17.1% in 2010.      The Schlumberger effective tax rate is sensitive to the geographic mix of earnings.
When the percentage of pretax earnings generated outside of North America increases, the Schlumberger effective tax rate will generally decrease. Conversely, when the percentage of pretax earnings generated outside of North America decreases, the
Schlumberger effective tax rate will generally increase.      The effective tax rate for both 2011 and 2010 was impacted by the
charges and credits described in Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements . Excluding the impact of these charges and credits, the effective tax rate in 2011 was 23.8% compared to 20.5% in 2010. This increase in the effective tax rate,
excluding the impact of the charges and credits, was primarily attributable to the fact that Schlumberger generated a larger proportion of its pretax earnings in North America in 2011 as compared to 2010 as a result of improved market conditions and
the effect of a full year s activity from the acquired Smith businesses.         Charges and Credits      
  Schlumberger recorded significant charges and credits in continuing operations during 2012, 2011 and 2010. These charges and credits,
which are summarized below, are more fully described in Note 3 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements .      The following
is a summary of the 2012 charges and credits:       
    The following is a summary of the 2011 charges and credits:   

23   

The following is a summary of the 2010 charges and credits:   
   
       Cash Flow         Net Debt represents gross debt less cash, short-term investments and fixed income investments, held to maturity. Management believes that Net Debt provides useful information regarding the level of
Schlumberger s indebtedness by reflecting cash and investments that could be used to repay debt.      Details of Net Debt
follow:       

(1)  
  Includes multiclient seismic data costs.     
         24   

Key liquidity events during 2012, 2011 and 2010 included:   

During the third quarter of 2012, Schlumberger completed the divestiture of its 56% interest in CE Franklin Ltd. for $122 million in cash.

During the second quarter of 2012, Schlumberger completed the divestiture of its Wilson distribution business for $906 million in cash.

During the second quarter of 2011, Schlumberger completed the divestiture of its Global Connectivity Services business for approximately $385 million
in cash.          

As a result of the Smith acquisition on August 27, 2010, Schlumberger assumed net debt of $1.8 billion. This amount consisted of $2.2 billion of
debt (including a $0.4 billion adjustment to increase Smith s long-term fixed rate debt to its estimated fair value) and $0.4 billion of cash.          

During the second quarter of 2010, Schlumberger completed the acquisition of Geoservices for cash of $0.9 billion. Schlumberger assumed net debt
of $0.1 billion in connection with this transaction.          

During the third and fourth quarters of 2010, Schlumberger repurchased the following debt:      
   
    The premium paid in excess of the carrying value to repurchase the $1.275 billion of debt was
approximately $67 million.       

Schlumberger maintains a  3.0 billion Euro Medium Term Note program. This program provides for the issuance of various types of debt instruments
such as fixed or floating rate notes in Euro, US dollar or other currencies.      
         25   

During the fourth quarter of 2010, Schlumberger issued  1.0 billion 2.75% Guaranteed
Notes due under this program. Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these euro notes for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this a US denominated debt on which Schlumberger will pay interest in US dollars
at a rate of 2.56%. During the first quarter of 2009, Schlumberger issued  1.0 billion 4.50% Guaranteed Notes due 2014 under this program. Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these euro notes for US dollars on the date of issue until
maturity, effectively making this a US dollar denominated debt on which Schlumberger will pay interest in US dollars at a rate of 4.95%.       

On April 17, 2008, the Schlumberger Board of Directors approved an $8 billion share repurchase program for shares of Schlumberger common stock, to
be acquired in the open market before December 31, 2011. On July 21, 2011, the Schlumberger Board of Directors approved an extension of this repurchase program to December 31, 2013. Schlumberger had repurchased $7.12 billion of shares
under this program as of December 31, 2012.         The following table summarizes the activity under this
share repurchase program during 2012, 2011 and 2010:       

In recent years, Schlumberger has actively managed its activity levels in Venezuela relative to its accounts receivable balance, and has
recently experienced an increased delay in payment from its national oil company customer there. Schlumberger operates in approximately 85 countries. At December 31, 2012, only five of those countries (including Venezuela)
individually accounted for greater than 5% of Schlumberger s accounts receivable balance of which only one, the United States, represented greater than 10%.       
 
  On January 17, 2013, Schlumberger announced that its Board of Directors had approved an increase in the quarterly dividend of 13.6%,
to $0.3125.      On January 19, 2012, Schlumberger announced that its Board of Directors had approved an increase in the
quarterly dividend of 10%, to $0.275.      On January 21, 2011, Schlumberger announced that its Board of Directors had
approved an increase in the quarterly dividend of 19%, to $0.25.       

Schlumberger s international defined benefit pension plans are a combined 88% funded at December 31, 2012 based on the projected
benefit obligation. This compares to 88% funded at December 31, 2011.      Schlumberger currently anticipates contributing
approximately $650 million to its postretirement benefit plans in 2013, subject to market and business conditions.       

There were $321 million outstanding Series B debentures at December 31, 2009. During 2010, the remaining $320 million of the 2.125% Series B
Convertible Debentures due June 1, 2023 were converted by holders into 8.0 million shares of Schlumberger common stock and the remaining $1 million of outstanding Series B debentures were redeemed for cash.      
         26   

As of December 31, 2012, Schlumberger had approximately $6.3 billion of cash and
short-term investments on hand. Schlumberger had separate committed debt facility agreements aggregating $4.1 billion with commercial banks, of which $3.8 billion was available and unused as of December 31, 2012. This included $3.5 billion
of committed facilities which support commercial paper borrowings in the United States and Europe. Schlumberger believes that these amounts are sufficient to meet future business requirements for at least the next 12 months.   
  Schlumberger did not have any commercial paper borrowings outstanding as of December 31, 2012.   
     Summary of Major Contractual Obligations          

(1)   
 
      Excludes future payments for
interest.      

(  3  )   
      Represents an estimate of contractual obligations in the ordinary course of
business. Although these contractual obligations are considered enforceable and legally binding, the terms generally allow Schlumberger the option to reschedule and adjust its requirements based on business needs prior to the delivery of goods.
        Refer to Note 18  Pension and Other Benefit Plans  of the  Consolidated Financial Statements  for
details regarding Schlumberger s pension and other postretirement benefit obligations.      As discussed in Note 14  Income
Taxes  of the  Consolidated Financial Statements , included in the Schlumberger  Consolidated Balance Sheet  at December 31, 2012 is approximately $1.45 billion of liabilities associated with uncertain tax positions in the over 100
jurisdictions in which Schlumberger conducts business. Due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, combined with the difficulty in predicting when tax audits throughout the world may be concluded, Schlumberger cannot make
reliable estimates of the timing of cash outflows relating to these liabilities.      Schlumberger has outstanding letters of
credit/guarantees which relate to business performance bonds, custom/excise tax commitments, facility lease/rental obligations, etc. These were entered into in the ordinary course of business and are customary practices in the various countries
where Schlumberger operates.         Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates      
  The preparation of financial statements and related disclosures in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States requires Schlumberger to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses. The following accounting
policies involve  critical accounting estimates  because they are particularly dependent on estimates and assumptions made by Schlumberger about matters that are inherently uncertain. A summary of all of Schlumberger s significant
accounting policies is included in Note 2 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements .      Schlumberger bases its estimates on
historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent
from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.       Multiclient Seismic Data
      The WesternGeco business capitalizes the costs associated with obtaining multiclient seismic data. The carrying value of
the multiclient seismic data library at December 31, 2012 and 2011 was $518 million and $425 million, respectively. Such costs are charged to  Cost of revenue  based on the percentage of the total costs to the estimated total revenue that
Schlumberger expects to receive from the sales of such data. However, under no circumstances will an individual survey carry a net book value greater than a 4-year, straight-line amortized value.   
  The carrying value of surveys is reviewed for impairment annually as well as when an event or change in circumstance indicates an
impairment may have occurred. Adjustments to the carrying value are recorded when it is   
         27   

determined that estimated future revenues, which involve significant judgment on the part of Schlumberger, would not be sufficient to recover the carrying value of the surveys. Significant
adverse changes in Schlumberger s estimated future cash flows could result in impairment charges in a future period. For purposes of performing the annual impairment test of the multiclient library, future cash flows are analyzed primarily
based on two pools of surveys: United States and non-United States. The United States and non-United States pools were determined to be the most appropriate level at which to perform the impairment review based upon a number of factors including
(i) various macroeconomic factors that influence the ability to successfully market surveys and (ii) the focus of the sales force and related costs. Certain larger surveys, which are typically prefunded by customers, are analyzed for
impairment on a survey by survey basis.       Allowance for Doubtful Accounts    
  Schlumberger maintains an allowance for doubtful accounts in order to record accounts receivable at their net realizable
value. Judgment is involved in recording and making adjustments to this reserve. Allowances have been recorded for receivables believed to be uncollectible, including amounts for the resolution of potential credit and other collection
issues such as disputed invoices. Depending on how such potential issues are resolved, or if the financial condition of Schlumberger customers were to deteriorate resulting in an impairment of their ability to make payments, adjustments to the
allowance may be required.       Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Long-Lived Assets    
  Schlumberger records the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired as
goodwill. The goodwill relating to each of Schlumberger s reporting units is tested for impairment annually as well as when an event, or change in circumstances, indicates an impairment may have occurred.   
  Under generally accepted accounting principles, Schlumberger has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the
existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of one of its reporting units is greater than its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances,
Schlumberger determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, then there is no need to perform any further testing. However, if Schlumberger concludes otherwise, then it is required
to perform the first step of a two-step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its
carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the implied fair value of the goodwill of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value.      Schlumberger has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test.
     For purposes of performing the impairment test for goodwill, Schlumberger s reporting units are its three Groups:
Reservoir Characterization, Drilling and Production. Schlumberger elected to perform the qualitative assessment described above for purposes of its annual goodwill impairment test. Based on this assessment, Schlumberger concluded that it was more
likely than not that the fair value of each of its reporting units was greater than its carrying amount. Accordingly, no further testing was required.      Long-lived assets, including fixed assets and intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In
reviewing for impairment, the carrying value of such assets is compared to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition. If such cash flows are not sufficient to support the
asset s recorded value, an impairment charge is recognized to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset to its estimated fair value. The determination of future cash flows as well as the estimated fair value of long-lived assets
involves significant estimates on the part of management. If there is a material change in economic conditions or other circumstances influencing the estimate of future cash flows or fair value, Schlumberger could be required to recognize impairment
charges in the future. Schlumberger evaluates the remaining useful life of its intangible assets on a periodic basis to determine whether events and circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining estimated amortization period.   
   Income Taxes    
  Schlumberger conducts business in more than 100 tax jurisdictions, a number of which have tax laws that are not fully defined and are
evolving. Schlumberger s tax filings are subject to regular audits by the tax authorities. These   
         28   

audits may result in assessments for additional taxes which are resolved with the authorities or, potentially, through the courts. Tax liabilities are recorded based on estimates of additional
taxes which will be due upon the conclusion of these audits. Estimates of these tax liabilities are made based upon prior experience and are updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances. However, due to the uncertain and complex
application of tax regulations, it is possible that the ultimate resolution of audits may result in liabilities which could be materially different from these estimates. In such an event, Schlumberger will record additional tax expense or tax
benefit in the period in which such resolution occurs.       Pension and Postretirement Benefits    
  Schlumberger s pension and postretirement benefit obligations are described in detail in Note 18 to the  Consolidated Financial
Statements . The obligations and related costs are calculated using actuarial concepts, which include critical assumptions related to the discount rate, expected rate of return on plan assets and medical cost trend rates. These assumptions are
important elements of expense and/or liability measurement and are updated on an annual basis, or upon the occurrence of significant events.      The discount rate Schlumberger uses reflects the prevailing market rate of a portfolio of high-quality debt instruments with maturities matching the expected timing of the payment of the benefit
obligations. The following summarizes the discount rates utilized by Schlumberger for its various pension and postretirement benefit plans:       

The weighted-average discount rate utilized to determine expense for Schlumberger s United States pension plans and postretirement medical plans
decreased from 5.50% in 2011 to 5.00% in 2012.          
    A higher discount rate decreases the present value of benefit obligations and decreases
expense.      The expected rate of return for our retirement benefit plans represents the average rate of return expected to be
earned on plan assets over the period that benefits included in the benefit obligation are expected to be paid. The expected rate of return for Schlumberger s United States pension plans has been determined based upon expectations regarding
future rates of return for the investment portfolio, with consideration given to the distribution of investments by asset class and historical rates of return for each individual asset class. The weighted average expected rate of return on plan
assets for each of the United States and international pension plans was 7.50% in both 2012 and 2011. A lower expected rate of return would increase pension expense.      Schlumberger s medical cost trend rate assumptions are developed based on historical cost data, the near-term outlook and an assessment of likely long-term trends. The overall medical cost trend rate
assumption utilized to determine the 2012 postretirement medical expense was 8% graded to 5% over the next seven years. The overall medical trend rate assumption utilized to determine the postretirement medical liability at December 31, 2012
was 7.5% graded to 5% over the next eleven years.      The following illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions,
holding all other assumptions constant, for the United States and international pension plans:       
 
         29   

The following illustrates the sensitivity to changes in certain assumptions, holding all
other assumptions constant, for Schlumberger s United States postretirement medical plans:       
     Investments in Affiliated Companies        Investments in Affiliated Companies  on the consolidated balance sheet primarily reflects Schlumberger s investments in privately held companies, some of which are in the startup or development
stages and are often still defining their strategic direction. Such investments are inherently risky and their success is dependent on factors such as technology development, market acceptance and their ability to raise additional funds. The
technology being developed by these companies may never materialize and they could fail. Schlumberger monitors its portfolio to determine if any investment is other-than-temporarily impaired. If an investment is considered to be
other-than-temporarily impaired, it is written down to its fair value.   
         30   

Item 7A.    
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  .       
  Schlumberger is subject to market risks primarily associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices and
interest rates.      As a multinational company, Schlumberger conducts business in approximately 85 countries. Schlumberger s
functional currency is primarily the US dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. Approximately 75% of Schlumberger s revenue in 2012 was denominated in US dollars. However, outside the United States, a significant portion of
Schlumberger s expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. Therefore, when the US dollar weakens in relation to the foreign currencies of the countries in which Schlumberger conducts business, the US dollar-reported expenses will increase.
     A 5% increase or decrease in the average exchange rates of all the foreign currencies in 2012 would have changed revenue by
approximately 1%. If the 2012 average exchange rates of the US dollar against all foreign currencies had strengthened by 5%, Schlumberger s income from continuing operations would have increased by approximately 2%. Conversely, a 5% weakening
of the US dollar average exchange rates would have decreased income from continuing operations by approximately 2%.   
  Schlumberger maintains a foreign-currency risk management strategy that uses derivative instruments to protect its interests from
unanticipated fluctuations in earnings and cash flows caused by volatility in currency exchange rates. Foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options provide a hedge against currency fluctuations either on monetary
assets/liabilities denominated in other than a functional currency or on expenses.      At December 31, 2012, contracts were
outstanding for the US dollar equivalent of $7.5 billion in various foreign currencies of which $3.9 billion relate to hedges of debt balances denominated in currencies other than the functional currency.   
  Schlumberger is subject to the risk of market price fluctuations of certain commodities, such as fuel. Schlumberger utilizes forward
contracts to manage a small percentage of the price risk associated with forecasted fuel purchases. As of December 31, 2012, $43 million of commodity forward contracts were outstanding.   
  Schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. Schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk
management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates. At December 31, 2012, Schlumberger had fixed rate debt
aggregating approximately $10.0 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $1.6 billion. Schlumberger has entered into interest rate swaps relating to $0.5 billion of its fixed rate debt as of December 31, 2012 whereby
Schlumberger will receive interest at a fixed rate and pay interest at a variable rate.      Schlumberger s exposure to
interest rate risk associated with its debt is also partially mitigated by its investment portfolio. Both  Short-term investments  and  Fixed income investments ,  held to maturity , which totaled approximately $4.6 billion at
December 31, 2012, are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and Eurobonds and are substantially all denominated in US dollars. The average return on
investment was 0.6% in 2012.      The following table represents carrying amounts of Schlumberger s debt at December 31,
2012 by year of maturity:       
 
         31   

The fair market value of the outstanding fixed rate debt was approximately $10.5 billion as
of December 31, 2012. The weighted average interest rate on the variable rate debt as of December 31, 2012 was 3.6%.   
  Schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes.         Forward-looking Statements         This Form 10-K and other statements
we make contain  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the federal securities laws, which include any statements that are not historical facts, such as our forecasts or expectations regarding business outlook; growth for
Schlumberger as a whole and for each of its segments (and for specified products or geographic areas within each segment); oil and natural gas demand and production growth; oil and natural gas prices; improvements in operating procedures and
technology; capital expenditures by Schlumberger and the oil and gas industry; the business strategies of Schlumberger s customers; future global economic conditions; and future results of operations. These statements are subject to risks and
uncertainties, including, but not limited to, global economic conditions; changes in exploration and production spending by Schlumberger s customers and changes in the level of oil and natural gas exploration and development; general economic,
political and business conditions in key regions of the world; pricing erosion; weather and seasonal factors; operational delays; production declines; changes in government regulations and regulatory requirements, including those related to offshore
oil and gas exploration, radioactive sources, explosives, chemicals, hydraulic fracturing services and climate-related initiatives; the inability of technology to meet new challenges in exploration; and other risks and uncertainties detailed in the
Risk Factors section of this Form 10-K and other filings that we make with the Securities and Exchange Commission. If one or more of these or other risks or uncertainties materialize (or the consequences of such a development changes), or should our
underlying assumptions prove incorrect, actual outcomes may vary materially from those reflected in our forward-looking statements. Schlumberger disclaims any intention or obligation to update publicly or revise such statements, whether as a result
of new information, future events or otherwise.   
         32   

Item 8.    
    Financial Statements and Supplementary   Data.          SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES   
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME   

(1)   Amounts  
    may not add due to rounding.           See the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         33   

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES     
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME   

See the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         34   

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES   
     CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET   

See the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         35   

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES   
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS   

(1)  
    Includes multiclient seismic data costs.     

(2)  
    Net of the effect of business acquisitions.          See the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         36   

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES   
     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY   

See the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         37   

SCHLUMBERGER LIMITED AND SUBSIDIARIES   
  SHARES OF COMMON STOCK       
      See the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
         38   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     
    1.      Business Description      
   Schlumberger Limited (Schlumberger N.V., incorporated in Cura ao) and its consolidated subsidiaries
(collectively,  Schlumberger ) form the world s leading supplier of technology, integrated project management and information solutions to customers in the international oil and gas exploration and production industry.   
    2.      Summary of Accounting Policies     
   The  Consolidated Financial Statements  of Schlumberger have been prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America.        Principles of Consolidation     
  The accompanying  Consolidated Financial Statements  include the accounts of Schlumberger, its wholly-owned subsidiaries, and other
subsidiaries over which it exercises a controlling financial interest. All significant intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated.        Reclassifications        Certain prior year items have been reclassified to
conform to the current year presentation.        Use of Estimates     
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates
and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. On an on-going
basis, Schlumberger evaluates its estimates, including those related to collectibility of accounts receivable; recoverability of goodwill, intangible assets and investments in affiliates; income taxes; multiclient seismic data; contingencies and
actuarial assumptions for employee benefit plans. Schlumberger bases its estimates on historical experience and on other assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments
about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.        Revenue Recognition        Schlumberger recognizes revenue based upon
purchase orders, contracts or other persuasive evidence of an arrangement with the customer that include fixed or determinable prices provided that collectibility is reasonably assured. Revenue is recognized for services when they are rendered.
Revenue is recognized for products upon delivery, when the customer assumes the risks and rewards of ownership.      Revenue from
seismic contract services performed on a dayrate basis is recognized as the service is performed. Revenue from other services, including pre-funded multiclient surveys, is recognized as the seismic data is acquired and/or processed on a
proportionate basis as work is performed. This method requires revenue to be recognized based upon quantifiable measures of progress, such as square kilometers acquired. Multiclient data surveys are licensed or sold to customers on a
non-transferable basis. Revenue from sales of completed multiclient data surveys is recognized upon obtaining a signed licensing agreement and providing customers with access to such data.   
  Revenue is occasionally generated from contractual arrangements that include multiple deliverables. Revenue from these arrangements is
recognized as each item is delivered based on their relative fair value and when the delivered items have stand-alone value to the customer.      Revenue derived from the sale of licenses of Schlumberger software may include installation, maintenance, consulting and training services. If services are not essential to the functionality of the
software, the revenue for each element of the contract is recognized separately based on its respective vendor specific objective evidence of fair value when all of the following conditions are met: a signed contract is obtained, delivery has
occurred, the fee is fixed or determinable and collectibility is probable.   
         39   

Translation of Non-United States Currencies     
  The functional currency of Schlumberger is primarily the US dollar. Assets and liabilities recorded in functional currencies other than US
dollars are translated at period end exchange rates. The resulting adjustments are charged or credited directly to the  Equity section of the Consolidated Balance Sheet . Revenue and expenses are translated at the weighted-average exchange
rates for the period. Realized and unrealized transaction gains and losses are included in income in the period in which they occur. Transaction losses of $37 million, $25 million and $27 million, net of hedging activities, were recognized in 2012,
2011 and 2010, respectively.        Short-term and Fixed Income Investments     
  The  Consolidated Balance Sheet  reflects the Schlumberger investment portfolio separated between current and long term, based on
maturity. Both  Short-term investments  and  Fixed Income Investments, held to maturity  are comprised primarily of money market funds, eurodollar time deposits, certificates of deposit, commercial paper, euro notes and Eurobonds, and are
substantially denominated in US dollars. Under normal circumstances it is the intent of Schlumberger to hold the investments until maturity, with the exception of investments that are considered trading (December 31, 2012   $194 million;
December 31, 2011   $190 million). Short-term investments that are designated as trading are stated at fair value, which is estimated using quoted market prices for those or similar investments. All other investments are stated at cost
plus accrued interest, which approximates market. The unrealized gains/losses on investments designated as trading were not significant at both December 31, 2012 and 2011.      For purposes of the  Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows , Schlumberger does not consider  Short-term investments  to be cash equivalents.   
   Fixed Income Investments, held to maturity  at December 31, 2012 of $245 million mature as follows: $172 million in 2014, $51
million in 2015 and $5 million in 2016 and $17 million in 2017.        Inventories     
   Inventories  are stated at average cost or at market, whichever is lower. Costs included in  Inventories  consist of materials,
direct labor and manufacturing overhead.        Investments in Affiliated Companies     
  Investments in companies in which Schlumberger does not have a controlling financial interest, but over which it has significant influence
are accounted for using the equity method. Schlumberger s share of the after-tax earnings of equity method investees is included in  Interest and other income . Investments in privately held companies in which Schlumberger does
not have the ability to exercise significant influence are accounted for using the cost method. Investments in publicly traded companies in which Schlumberger does not have significant influence are accounted for as available-for-sale
marketable securities. These marketable securities are reported at fair value, based on quoted market prices, with unrealized gains and losses reported as a component of  Accumulated other comprehensive loss . The fair value and cost
basis of these marketable securities was $222 million and $81 million, respectively at December 31, 2012. Schlumberger did not have any investments in marketable securities at December 31, 2011.   
  Equity and cost method investments as well as investments in publicly traded companies are classified as  Investments in Affiliated
Companies  in the  Consolidated Balance Sheet .        Fixed Assets and Depreciation     
  Fixed assets are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation, which is provided for by charges to income over the estimated useful lives
of the assets using the straight-line method. Fixed assets include the manufacturing cost of oilfield technical equipment manufactured or assembled by subsidiaries of Schlumberger. Expenditures for replacements and improvements are capitalized.
Maintenance and repairs are charged to operating expenses as incurred. Upon sale or other disposition, the applicable amounts of asset cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the balance sheet and the net amount, less proceeds from
disposal, is charged or credited to income.        Multiclient Seismic Data     
  The multiclient library consists of completed and in-process seismic surveys that are licensed on a nonexclusive basis. Multiclient
surveys are primarily generated utilizing Schlumberger resources. Schlumberger capitalizes costs   
         40   

directly incurred in acquiring and processing the multiclient seismic data. Such costs are charged to  Cost of revenue    based on the percentage of the total costs to the estimated
total revenue that Schlumberger expects to receive from the sales of such data. However, under no circumstance will an individual survey carry a net book value greater than a 4-year, straight-line amortized value.   
  The carrying value of the multiclient library is reviewed for impairment annually as well as when an event or change in circumstance
indicating impairment may have occurred. Adjustments to the carrying value are recorded when it is determined that estimated future cash flows, which involves significant judgment on the part of Schlumberger, would not be sufficient to recover the
carrying value of the surveys. Significant adverse changes in Schlumberger s estimated future cash flows could result in impairment charges in a future period.        Goodwill, Other Intangibles and Long-lived Assets        Schlumberger records
the excess of purchase price over the fair value of the tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired as goodwill. The goodwill relating to each of Schlumberger s reporting units is tested for impairment annually as well as when an
event, or change in circumstances, indicates an impairment may have occurred.      Under generally accepted accounting principles,
Schlumberger has the option to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether the existence of events or circumstances leads to a determination that it is more likely than not that the fair value of one of its reporting units is greater than
its carrying amount. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, Schlumberger determines it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, then there is no need to perform any
further testing. However, if Schlumberger concludes otherwise, then it is required to perform the first step of a two-step impairment test by calculating the fair value of the reporting unit and comparing the fair value with the carrying amount of
the reporting unit. If the fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value, an impairment loss is recorded to the extent that the implied fair value of the goodwill of the reporting unit is less than its carrying value.   
  Schlumberger has the option to bypass the qualitative assessment for any reporting unit in any period and proceed directly to performing
the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test.      For purposes of performing the impairment test for goodwill,
Schlumberger s reporting units are its three Groups: Reservoir Characterization, Drilling and Production. Schlumberger elected to perform the qualitative assessment described above for purposes of its annual goodwill impairment test. Based on
this assessment, Schlumberger concluded that it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of its reporting units was greater than its carrying amount. Accordingly, no further testing was required.   
  Long-lived assets, including fixed assets and intangible assets, are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In reviewing for impairment, the carrying value of such assets is compared to the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected from the use of the assets and their eventual disposition.
If such cash flows are not sufficient to support the asset s recorded value, an impairment charge is recognized to reduce the carrying value of the long-lived asset to its estimated fair value. The determination of future cash flows as well as
the estimated fair value of long-lived assets involve significant estimates on the part of management. If there is a material change in economic conditions or other circumstances influencing the estimate of future cash flows or fair value,
Schlumberger could be required to recognize impairment charges in the future.      Intangible assets consist primarily of customer
relationships, technology/technical know-how and tradenames acquired in business combinations. Customer relationships are generally amortized over periods ranging from 15 to 28 years, acquired technology/technical know-how are generally amortized
over periods ranging from 10 to 18 years and tradenames are generally amortized over periods ranging from 15 to 30 years.        Taxes on Income
       Schlumberger computes taxes on income in accordance with the tax rules and regulations of the many taxing authorities
where the income is earned. The income tax rates imposed by these taxing authorities vary substantially. Taxable income may differ from pretax income for financial accounting purposes. To the extent that differences are due to revenue or expense
items reported in one period for tax purposes and in another period for financial accounting purposes, an appropriate provision for deferred income taxes is made. Any effect of changes in income tax rates or tax laws are included in the provision
for income taxes in the period of enactment. When it is more likely than not that a portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized in the future, Schlumberger provides a corresponding valuation allowance against deferred tax assets.
  
         41   

Schlumberger s tax filings are subject to regular audit by the tax authorities in most
of the jurisdictions in which it conducts business. These audits may result in assessments for additional taxes which are resolved with the authorities or, potentially, through the courts. Schlumberger recognizes the impact of a tax position in its
financial statements if that position is more likely than not of being sustained on audit, based on the technical merits of the position. Tax liabilities are recorded based on estimates of additional taxes which will be due upon the conclusion of
these audits. Estimates of these tax liabilities are made based upon prior experience and are updated in light of changes in facts and circumstances. However, due to the uncertain and complex application of tax regulations, it is possible that the
ultimate resolution of audits may result in liabilities which could be materially different from these estimates. In such an event, Schlumberger will record additional tax expense or tax benefit in the year in which such resolution occurs.
     Schlumberger generally does not provide income taxes relating to undistributed earnings, as the earnings either would not be
taxable when remitted or are considered to be indefinitely reinvested.        Concentration of Credit Risk     
  Schlumberger s assets that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash, short-term investments, fixed
income investments held to maturity, receivables from clients and derivative financial instruments. Schlumberger places its cash, short-term investments and fixed income investments held to maturity with financial institutions and corporations, and
limits the amount of credit exposure with any one of them. Schlumberger regularly evaluates the creditworthiness of the issuers in which it invests. The receivables from clients are spread over many countries and customers. Schlumberger maintains an
allowance for uncollectible accounts receivable based on expected collectibility and performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers  financial condition. By using derivative financial instruments to hedge exposure to changes in exchange
rates and commodity prices, Schlumberger exposes itself to some credit risk. Schlumberger minimizes this credit risk by entering into transactions with high-quality counterparties, limiting the exposure to each counterparty and monitoring the
financial condition of its counterparties.        Research   Engineering     
  All research and engineering expenditures are expensed as incurred.        Earnings per Share        Basic earnings per share of Schlumberger from
continuing operations is calculated by dividing income from continuing operations attributable to Schlumberger by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted earnings per share is calculated by dividing income
from continuing operations attributable to Schlumberger by the sum of (i) unvested restricted stock units and (ii) the weighted average number of common shares outstanding assuming dilution. The weighted average number of common shares
outstanding assuming dilution assumes that all stock options which are in the money are exercised at the beginning of the period and that the proceeds are used by Schlumberger to purchase shares at the average market price for the period.
  
         42   

The following is a reconciliation from basic to diluted earnings per share from continuing
operations of Schlumberger for each of the last three years:       
    Employee stock options to purchase approximately 21.0 million, 14.0 million and
12.5 million shares of common stock at December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively, were outstanding but were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per share because the option exercise price was greater than the average
market price of the common stock, and therefore, the effect on diluted earnings per share would have been anti-dilutive.   
    3.      Charges and Credits     
   Schlumberger recorded the following charges and credits in continuing operations during 2012, 2011 and 2010:
      2012        

Schlumberger recorded the following merger and integration-related charges in connection with its 2010 acquisitions of Smith International, Inc.
( Smith ) and Geoservices (see Note 4    Acquisitions ).          

During the fourth quarter, Schlumberger recorded a pretax charge of $33 million ($27 million after-tax) relating to severance in connection with an
initiative to rationalize global overhead costs.         The following is a summary of these charges:   

43   

2011        

Schlumberger recorded the following merger and integration-related charges in connection with its acquisitions of Smith and Geoservices.

During the fourth quarter, Schlumberger was able to physically assess the status of its assets in Libya. This assessment resulted in Schlumberger
recording a pretax and after-tax charge of $60 million relating to certain assets that were no longer recoverable as a result of the political unrest in Libya.      

During the second quarter, Schlumberger made a $50 million grant to the Schlumberger Foundation to support the Foundation s Faculty for the Future
program, which supports talented women scientists from the developing world by helping them pursue advanced graduate studies in scientific disciplines at leading universities worldwide. As a result, Schlumberger recorded a $50 million charge ($40
million after-tax).         The following is a summary of these charges:   
   
     2010    
  Fourth quarter of 2010:       

In connection with the acquisition of Smith, Schlumberger recorded the following pretax charges: $115 million ($73 million after-tax) relating to the
amortization of purchase accounting adjustments associated with the write-up of acquired inventory to its estimated fair value, $17 million ($16 million after-tax) of professional and other fees and $15 million ($11 million after-tax) relating to
employee benefits.          

Schlumberger repurchased the following debt:          
    As a result of these transactions, Schlumberger incurred pretax charges of $32 million ($20 million
after-tax).      Third quarter of 2010:       

As a result of the decision to rationalize support costs across the organization as well as to restructure the North America land operations to provide
greater operating efficiency, Schlumberger recorded a pretax charge of $90 million ($77 million after-tax).      
         44   

Following the successful introduction of UniQ, a new generation single-sensor land acquisition system, Schlumberger recorded a $78 million pretax
charge ($71 million after-tax) related to the impairment of WesternGeco s first generation Q-Land system assets.          

A pretax and after-tax charge of $63 million primarily relating to the early termination of a vessel lease associated with WesternGeco s
electromagnetic service offering as well as related assets, including a $30 million impairment related to an equity-method investment.          

In connection with the acquisition of Smith, Schlumberger recorded the following pretax charges: $56 million ($55 million after-tax) of merger-related
transaction costs including advisory and legal fees, $38 million ($32 million after-tax) relating to employee benefits for change in control payments and retention bonuses and $38 million ($24 million after-tax) relating to the amortization of
purchase accounting adjustments associated with the write-up of acquired inventory to its estimated fair value.          

$40 million pretax charge ($36 million after-tax) for the early termination of rig contracts and workforce reductions in Mexico due to the slowdown of
project activity.          

Schlumberger recorded a pretax gain of $1.27 billion ($1.24 billion after-tax) as a result of remeasuring its previously held 40% equity interest in
the M-I SWACO joint venture. Refer to Note 4    Acquisitions  for further details.         First quarter of 2010:

Schlumberger incurred $35 million of pretax and after-tax merger-related costs in connection with the Smith and Geoservices acquisitions. These costs
primarily consisted of advisory and legal fees.          

During March 2010, the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA) was signed into law in the United States. Among other things, the PPACA
eliminated the tax deductibility of retiree prescription drug benefits to the extent of the Medicare Part D subsidy that companies, such as Schlumberger, receive. As a result of this change in law, Schlumberger recorded a $40 million charge to
adjust its deferred tax assets to reflect the loss of this future tax deduction.         The following is a summary of 2010 charges
and credits:           
 
    4.     Acquisitions     
    Acquisition of Smith International, Inc.       On August 27, 2010, Schlumberger acquired all of the outstanding shares of Smith, a leading supplier of premium products and services to the oil and gas exploration and production industry. The
transaction brought together the complementary drilling and measurements technologies and expertise of Schlumberger and Smith in order to facilitate the engineering of complete drilling systems which optimize all of the components of the drill
string.   
         45   

Under the terms of the transaction, Smith became a wholly-owned subsidiary of Schlumberger.
Each share of Smith common stock issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the acquisition was converted into the right to receive 0.6966 shares of Schlumberger common stock, with cash paid in lieu of fractional shares.
     The following details the fair value of the consideration transferred to effect the acquisition of Smith.   

(Stated in millions, except exchange ratio and per share amounts)   

Number of shares of Smith common stock outstanding as of the acquisition date   

248  

Number of Smith unvested restricted stock units outstanding as of the acquisition date   

4  

252  

Multiplied by the exchange ratio   

0.6966  

Equivalent Schlumberger shares of common stock issued   

176  

Schlumberger closing stock price on August 27, 2010   
      
  $  
  55.76  

Common stock equity consideration   
      
  $  
  9,812  

Fair value of Schlumberger equivalent stock options issued   

16  

Total fair value of the consideration transferred   
      
  $  
  9,828  

Certain amounts reflect rounding adjustments    
  Prior to the completion of the acquisition, Smith and Schlumberger operated M-I SWACO, a drilling fluids joint venture that was 40% owned
by Schlumberger and 60% owned by Smith. Effective at the closing of the transaction, M-I SWACO became 100% owned by Schlumberger. As a result of obtaining control of this joint venture, Schlumberger was required under generally accepted accounting
principles to remeasure its previously held equity interest in the joint venture at its acquisition-date fair value and recognize the resulting pretax gain of $1.3 billion ($1.2 billion after-tax) in earnings. This gain is classified as  Gain on
Investment in M-I SWACO  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income .      Prior to acquiring Smith, Schlumberger recorded
income relating to this joint venture using the equity method of accounting. Schlumberger s equity income from this joint venture was $78 million in 2010 (representing the period from January 1, 2010 to August 27, 2010). Schlumberger
received cash distributions from the joint venture of $50 million in 2010.       Acquisition of Geoservices    
  On April 23, 2010, Schlumberger completed the acquisition of Geoservices, a privately owned oilfield services company specializing in
mud logging, slickline and production surveillance operations, for $915 million in cash.       Other    
  Schlumberger has made other acquisitions and investments, none of which were significant on an individual basis, for cash payments, net of
cash acquired, of $845 million during 2012, $610 million during 2011, and $212 million during 2010.      On November 15, 2012,
Cameron International Corporation ( Cameron ) and Schlumberger announced that they had entered into an agreement with respect to the creation of OneSubsea, a joint venture to manufacture and develop products, systems and services for the
subsea oil and gas market. Schlumberger will own 40% of OneSubsea. The transaction is subject to regulatory approvals and other customary closing conditions and is expected to close by the second quarter of 2013. Under the terms of
the formation agreement, Cameron and Schlumberger will each contribute all of their respective subsea businesses to the joint venture and Schlumberger will make a $600 million cash payment to Cameron. In accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, upon the closing of this transaction, Schlumberger will recognize a gain as a result of the deconsolidation of its subsea business. This pretax gain will be equal to the difference between the fair value of the
Schlumberger subsea businesses and their carrying value at the time of closing and is currently estimated to be in excess of $1.2 billion.   
         46   

5.     Inventory     
   A summary of inventory follows:       
 
    6.     Fixed Assets     
   A summary of fixed assets follows:       
    The estimated useful lives of Buildings   improvements are primarily 30 to 40 years. The
estimated useful lives of Machinery   equipment are primarily 5 to 10 years. Seismic vessels are depreciated over periods ranging from 20 to 30 years.      Depreciation expense relating to fixed assets was $2.9 billion, $2.7 billion and $2.4 billion in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
    7.     Multiclient Seismic Data     
   The change in the carrying amount of multiclient seismic data is as follows:   

8.     Goodwill     
   The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reporting unit were as follows:   

47   

9.     Intangible Assets     
   Intangible assets principally comprise technology/technical know-how, tradenames and customer relationships. At
December 31, intangible assets were as follows:       
    Amortization expense was $331 million in 2012, $324 million in 2011 and $190 million in 2010.   
  The weighted average amortization period for all intangible assets is approximately 20 years.   
  Amortization expense for the subsequent five years is estimated to be as follows: 2013   $325 million, 2014   $320 million, 2015
  $311 million, 2016   $295 million and 2017   $284 million.   
    10.     Long-term Debt and Debt Facility Agreements     
    Long-term Debt  consists of the following:       

(1)      
    Schlumberger maintains a  3.0 billion Euro Medium Term Note program that provides for the issuance of various types of debt instruments such as
fixed or floating rate notes in euro, US dollar or other currencies. Schlumberger issued  1.0 billion 2.75% Guaranteed Notes due 2015 in the fourth quarter of 2010 under this program. Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these euro
notes for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this a US dollar denominated debt on which Schlumberger will pay interest in US dollars at a rate of 2.56%. Schlumberger also issued  1.0 billion 4.50% Guaranteed
Notes due 2014 in the first quarter of 2009 under this program. Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these euro notes for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this a US dollar denominated debt on which
Schlumberger will pay interest in US dollars at a rate of 4.95%.      

(      2      )      
    Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these euro notes for US dollars on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this a US
dollar-denominated debt on which Schlumberger pays interest in US dollars at a rate of 4.74%.      

(      3      )      
    Schlumberger entered into agreements to swap these dollar notes for euros on the date of issue until maturity, effectively making this a
euro-denominated debt on which Schlumberger pays interest in euros at a rate of 2.39%.      

(      4      )      
    These notes bear interest at a rate equal to three-month LIBOR plus 55 basis points per year.      
         48   

(      5      )      
    Represents changes in the fair value of the portion of Schlumberger s fixed rate debt that is hedged through the use of interest rate swaps.
        Schlumberger Limited fully and unconditionally guarantees the securities issued by certain of its
subsidiaries, including the securities by Schlumberger Investment SA, a 100%   owned finance subsidiary of Schlumberger.   
  At December 31, 2012, Schlumberger had separate committed debt facility agreements aggregating $4.1 billion with commercial banks, of
which $3.8 billion was available and unused. This included $3.5 billion of committed facilities which support commercial paper programs in the United States and Europe, of which $0.5 billion mature in December 2013 and $3.0 billion mature in July
2016. Interest rates and other terms of borrowing under these lines of credit vary from country to country. There were no borrowings under the commercial paper programs at December 31, 2012. At December 31, 2011, Schlumberger had $0.9
billion of outstanding commercial paper borrowings, which were classified within  Long-term debt   current portion  in the  Consolidated Balance Sheet .      Commercial paper borrowings outstanding at December 31, 2011 included certain notes issued in currencies other than the US dollar which were swapped for US dollars and pounds sterling on the date of
issue until maturity. Commercial paper borrowings are classified as long-term debt to the extent of their backup by available and unused committed credit facilities maturing in more than one year and to the extent it is Schlumberger s intent to
maintain these obligations for longer than one year.      The weighted average interest rate on variable rate debt as of
December 31, 2012 was 3.6%.       Long-term Debt  as of December 31, 2012, is due as follows: $1.657 billion in
2014, $1.318 billion in 2015, $1.843 billion in 2016, $0.999 billion in 2017, $2.694 billion in 2021 and $0.998 billion in 2022.   
  The fair value of Schlumberger s  Long-term Debt  at December 31, 2012 and December 31, 2011 was $9.9 billion and $8.9
billion, respectively, and was estimated based on quoted market prices.   
    11.     Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities     
   Schlumberger is exposed to market risks related to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity prices
and interest rates. To mitigate these risks, Schlumberger utilizes derivative instruments. Schlumberger does not enter into derivatives for speculative purposes.       Foreign Currency Exchange Rate Risk       As a multinational company,
Schlumberger conducts its business in approximately 85 countries. Schlumberger s functional currency is primarily the US dollar, which is consistent with the oil and gas industry. Approximately 75% of Schlumberger s revenue in 2012 was
denominated in US dollars. However, outside the United States, a significant portion of Schlumberger s expenses is incurred in foreign currencies. Therefore, when the US dollar weakens (strengthens) in relation to the foreign currencies of the
countries in which Schlumberger conducts business, the US dollar   reported expenses will increase (decrease).   
  Schlumberger is exposed to risks on future cash flows to the extent that local currency expenses exceed revenues denominated in local
currency that are other than the functional currency. Schlumberger uses foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options to provide a hedge against a portion of these cash flow risks. These contracts are accounted for as cash flow
hedges, with the effective portion of changes in the fair value of the hedge recorded on the  Consolidated Balance Sheet  and in  Accumulated other comprehensive loss.  Amounts recorded in  Accumulated other comprehensive loss  are
reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods that the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion of changes in the fair value of hedging instruments, if any, is recorded directly to earnings.   
  At December 31, 2012, Schlumberger recognized a cumulative net $30 million gain in  Accumulated other comprehensive loss 
relating to revaluation of foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options designated as cash flow hedges, the majority of which is expected to be reclassified into earnings within the next twelve months.   
  Schlumberger is also exposed to changes in the fair value of assets and liabilities, including certain of its long-term debt, which are
denominated in currencies other than the functional currency. Schlumberger uses foreign currency forward contracts and foreign currency options to hedge this exposure for certain currencies. The fair value of these contracts are recorded on the
Consolidated Balance Sheet and changes in the fair value recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Income along with the change in fair value of the hedged item.      At December 31, 2012, contracts were outstanding for the US dollar equivalent of $7.5 billion in various foreign currencies, of which $3.9 billion relate to hedges of debt denominated in currencies
other than the functional currency.   
         49   

Commodity Price Risk       Schlumberger is exposed to the impact of market fluctuations in the price of certain commodities, such as metals and fuel. Schlumberger utilizes forward contracts to manage a small percentage of the price
risk associated with forecasted metal purchases. The objective of these contracts is to reduce the variability of cash flows associated with the forecasted purchase of those commodities. These contracts do not qualify for hedge accounting treatment
and therefore, changes in the fair value of the forward contracts are recorded directly to earnings.      The notional amount of
outstanding commodity forward contracts was $43 million at December 31, 2012.       Interest Rate Risk    
  Schlumberger is subject to interest rate risk on its debt and its investment portfolio. Schlumberger maintains an interest rate risk
management strategy that uses a mix of variable and fixed rate debt combined with its investment portfolio and, from time to time, interest rate swaps to mitigate the exposure to changes in interest rates.   
  During 2009, Schlumberger entered into an interest rate swap for a notional amount of $450 million in order to hedge changes in the fair
value of Schlumberger s $450 million 3.00% Notes due 2013. Under the terms of this swap, Schlumberger receives interest at a fixed rate of 3.0% annually and will pay interest quarterly at a floating rate of three-month LIBOR plus a spread of
0.765%. This interest rate swap is designated as a fair value hedge of the underlying debt. This derivative instrument is marked to market with gains and losses recognized currently in income to offset the respective losses and gains recognized on
changes in the fair value of the hedged debt. This results in no net gain or loss being recognized in the  Consolidated Statement of Income .      At December 31, 2012, Schlumberger had fixed rate debt aggregating approximately $9.6 billion and variable rate debt aggregating approximately $2.0 billion, after taking into account the effect of
the interest rate swap.      The fair values of outstanding derivative instruments are summarized as follows:   

(Stated in millions)   

Fair Value
of             Derivatives               

Consolidated Balance Sheet Classification     
 
   Derivative assets   
      
   Dec. 31, 2012   

Dec. 31, 2011   

Derivative designated as hedges:   

Foreign exchange contracts   
      
   $   
   26   

$  
  2  

Other current assets     
 
    Foreign exchange contracts   

22   

4  

Other Assets     
 
    Interest rate swaps   

9  

Other Assets     
 
    Interest rate swaps   

2   

Other current assets     

50   

15  

Derivative not designated as hedges:   

Foreign exchange contracts   

10   

8  

Other current assets     
 
    Foreign exchange contracts   

6   

9  

Other Assets     

16   

17  

$   
   66   

$  
  32  

Derivative Liabilities    

Derivative designated as hedges:   

Foreign exchange contracts   
      
   $   
   80   

$  
  47  

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities     
 
    Foreign exchange contracts   

19   

130  

Other Liabilities     

99   

177  

Derivative not designated as hedges:   

Commodity contracts   

3  

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities     
 
    Foreign exchange contracts   

3   

9  

Accounts payable and accrued liabilities     

3   

12  

$   
   102   

$  
  189  

The fair value of all outstanding derivatives is determined using a model with inputs that are observable
in the market or can be derived from or corroborated by observable data.   
         50   

The effect of derivative instruments designated as fair value hedges and not designated as
hedges on the  Consolidated Statement of Income  was as follows:       
    The effect of derivative instruments in cash flow hedging relationships on income and  Accumulated other comprehensive
loss  (AOCL) was as follows:       

12.     Stockholders  Equity     
   Schlumberger is authorized to issue 4,500,000,000 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share, of which
1,328,255,773 and 1,333,775,406 shares were outstanding on December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. Holders of common stock are entitled to one vote for each share of stock held. Schlumberger is also authorized to issue 200,000,000 shares of
preferred stock, par value $0.01 per share, which may be issued in series with terms and conditions determined by the Board of Directors. No shares of preferred stock have been issued.       Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss  consists of the following:       
    Other comprehensive loss was $331 million, $789 million and $94 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010,
respectively.   
    13.     Stock-based Compensation Plans     
   Schlumberger has three types of stock-based compensation programs: stock options, a restricted stock and restricted
stock unit program (collectively referred to as  restricted stock ) and a discounted stock purchase plan ( DSPP ).   
         51   

Stock Options        Key employees are granted stock options under Schlumberger stock option plans. For all of the stock options granted, the exercise price equals the average of the high and low sales prices of Schlumberger
stock on the date of grant; an option s maximum term is ten years, and options generally vest in increments over four or five years.      The fair value of each stock option grant was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions and resulting weighted-average
fair value per share:       
    The following table summarizes information concerning options outstanding and options exercisable by five
ranges of exercise prices as of December 31, 2012:       
    The weighted average remaining contractual life of stock options exercisable as of December 31, 2012
was 5.1 years.      The following table summarizes stock option activity during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and
2010:       
    The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2012 was approximately
$308 million.      The aggregate intrinsic value of stock options exercisable as of December 31, 2012 was approximately $209
million.      The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, was $142
million, $246 million and $188 million, respectively.        Restricted Stock     
  Restricted stock awards generally vest at the end of three years. As of December 31, 2012, there have not been any grants to date
that are subject to performance-based vesting.   
         52   

The following table summarizes information about restricted stock transactions:   
   
      Discounted Stock Purchase Plan        Under the terms of the DSPP, employees can choose to have a portion of their earnings withheld, subject to certain restrictions, to purchase Schlumberger common stock. The purchase price of the stock is
92.5% of the lower of the stock price at the beginning or end of the plan period at six-month intervals.      The fair value of the
employees  purchase rights under the DSPP was estimated using the Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions and resulting weighted average fair value per share:   
   
      Total Stock-based Compensation Expense     
  The following summarizes stock-based compensation expense recognized in income:   
   
    At December 31, 2012, there was $565 million of total unrecognized compensation cost related to
nonvested stock-based compensation arrangements of which $234 million is expected to be recognized in 2013, $180 million in 2014, $108 million in 2015, $42 million in 2016 and $1 million in 2017.   
    14.     Income Taxes     
   Schlumberger operates in more than 100 tax jurisdictions, where statutory tax rates generally vary from 0% to 40%.
      Income from continuing operations before taxes  which were subject to United States and non-United States income taxes
for each of the three years ended December 31, was as follows:       
    Schlumberger recorded $161 million of pretax charges in 2012 ($52 million in the US and $109 million
outside the US). Schlumberger recorded $223 million of net pretax charges in 2011 ($104 million in the US and $119 million   
         53   

outside the US) and $625 million of pretax credits in 2010 ($222 million of net charges in the US and $847 million of net credits outside the US). These charges and credits are included in the
table above and are more fully described in Note 3    Charges and Credits .      The components of net deferred tax
assets (liabilities) were as follows:       
    The above deferred tax balances at December 31, 2012 and 2011 were net of valuation allowances
relating to net operating losses in certain countries of $256 million and $239 million, respectively.      The components of
 Taxes on income  were as follows:       
    A reconciliation of the United States statutory federal tax rate (35%) to the consolidated effective
tax rate is:       
    Schlumberger conducts business in more than 100 tax jurisdictions, a number of which have tax laws that
are not fully defined and are evolving. Schlumberger s tax filings are subject to regular audit by the tax authorities. Tax liabilities are recorded based on estimates of additional taxes which will be due upon the conclusion of these audits.
  
         54   

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of liabilities associated with uncertain
tax positions for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 is as follows:       
    The amounts above exclude accrued interest and penalties of $250 million, $225 million and $210 million at
December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010 respectively.      Schlumberger classifies interest and penalties relating to uncertain tax positions within
 Taxes on income  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income . During 2012, 2011 and 2010, Schlumberger recognized approximately $25 million, $15 million and $42 million in interest and penalties, respectively.   
  The following table summarizes the tax years that are either currently under audit or remain open and subject to examination by the tax
authorities in the most significant jurisdictions in which Schlumberger operates:       
    In certain of the jurisdictions noted above, Schlumberger operates through more than one legal entity,
each of which has different open years subject to examination. The table above presents the open years subject to examination for the most material of the legal entities in each jurisdiction. Additionally, it is important to note that tax years are
technically not closed until the statute of limitations in each jurisdiction expires. In the jurisdictions noted above, the statute of limitations can extend beyond the open years subject to examination.   
    15.     Leases and Lease Commitments     
   Total rental expense was $1.9 billion in 2012, $1.6 billion in 2011, and $1.2 billion in 2010. Future minimum rental
commitments under noncancelable operating leases for each of the next five years are as follows:       
 
    16.     Contingencies     
   In 2007, Schlumberger received an inquiry from the United States Department of Justice ( DOJ ) related to the
DOJ s investigation of whether certain freight forwarding and customs clearance services of Panalpina, Inc., and other companies provided to oil and oilfield service companies, including Schlumberger, violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act.
In October 2012, Schlumberger was advised by the DOJ that it has closed its inquiry as it relates to Schlumberger.   
         55   

In 2009, Schlumberger learned that United States officials began a grand jury investigation
and an associated regulatory inquiry, both related to certain Schlumberger operations in specified countries that are subject to United States trade and economic sanctions. Also in 2009, prior to being acquired by Schlumberger, Smith received an
administrative subpoena with respect to its historical business practices in certain countries that are subject to United States trade and economic sanctions. Schlumberger is cooperating with the governmental authorities.   
  On April 20, 2010, a fire and explosion occurred onboard the semisubmersible drilling rig  Deepwater Horizon , owned by
Transocean Ltd. and under contract to a subsidiary of BP plc. Pursuant to a contract between M-I SWACO and BP, M-I SWACO provided certain services under the direction of BP. A number of legal actions, certain of which name an M-I SWACO entity as a
defendant, have been filed in connection with the  Deepwater Horizon  incident, and additional legal actions may be filed in the future. Based on information currently known, the amount of any potential loss attributable to M-I SWACO with
respect to potential liabilities related to the incident would not be material to Schlumberger s consolidated financial statements.      Schlumberger and its subsidiaries are party to various other legal proceedings from time to time. A liability is accrued when a loss is both probable and can be reasonably estimated. Management believes
that the probability of a material loss is remote. However, litigation is inherently uncertain and it is not possible to predict the ultimate disposition of these proceedings.   
    17.     Segment Information     
   Schlumberger s segments are as follows:   

Reservoir Characterization Group     Consists of the principal technologies involved in finding and defining hydrocarbon deposits.
These include WesternGeco, Wireline, Testing Services, Schlumberger Information Services and PetroTechnical Services.          

Drilling Group     Consists of the principal technologies involved in the drilling and positioning of oil and gas wells and is
comprised of Bits   Advanced Technologies, M-I SWACO, Geoservices, Drilling   Measurements, Pathfinder, Drilling Tools   Remedial Services, Dynamic Pressure Management and Integrated Project Management well construction
projects.          

Production Group     Consists of the principal technologies involved in the lifetime production of oil and gas reservoirs and includes
Well Services, Completions, Artificial Lift, Well Intervention, Subsea, Water Services, Carbon Services and the Schlumberger Production Management field production projects.      
  The Groups are collectively referred to as  Oilfield Services .   
  Financial information for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, by segment, is as follows:   

56   

(1)  
  Effective January 1, 2012, a component of the Drilling Group was reallocated to the Production Group. Historical information has been reclassified to conform to
this presentation.         

(2)  
  Includes certain headquarter administrative costs which are not allocated to the segments, and certain other operations and other cost and income items maintained at
the Oilfield Services level.         

(3)  
  Excludes goodwill and intangible assets relating to discontinued operations.     

(4)  
  Comprised principally of corporate expenses not allocated to the segments, interest on postretirement medical benefits, stock-based compensation costs, amortization
expense associated with intangible assets recorded as a result of the acquisition of Smith and certain other nonoperating items. Corporate assets consist of cash, short-term investments, fixed income investments, held to maturity and investments in
affiliates.         

(7)  
  See Note 3    Charges and Credits .     
         57   

Segment assets consist of receivables, inventories, fixed assets and multiclient seismic
data.      Depreciation   Amortization includes multiclient seismic data costs.   
   Revenue  for the years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, by geographic area is as follows:   
   
    Revenue is based on the location where services are provided.   
  During each of the three years ended December 31, 2012, 2011 and 2010, no single customer exceeded 10% of consolidated revenue.
     Schlumberger did not have revenue from third-party customers in its country of domicile during the last three years. Revenue
in the United States in 2012, 2011 and 2010 was $11.8 billion, $10.7 billion and $5.8 billion, respectively.       Fixed Assets
less accumulated depreciation  by geographic area are as follows:       

(1)      
    Represents seismic vessels, including the related on-board equipment, which frequently transition between geographic areas.
     
    18.     Pension and Other Benefit Plans     
    Pension Plans       Schlumberger sponsors several defined benefit pension plans that cover substantially all US employees hired prior to October 1, 2004. The benefits are based on years of service and compensation, on a
career-average pay basis.      In addition to the United States defined benefit pension plans, Schlumberger sponsors several other
international defined benefit pension plans. The most significant of these international plans are the International Staff Pension Plan and the UK pension plan (collectively, the  International plans ). The International Staff Pension Plan
covers certain international employees and is based on years of service and compensation on a career-average pay basis. The UK plan covers employees hired prior to April 1, 1999, and is based on years of service and compensation, on a final
salary basis.      The weighted-average assumed discount rate, compensation increases and the expected long-term rate of return on
plan assets used to determine the net pension cost for the US and International plans were as follows:       
 
         58   

Net pension cost for 2012, 2011 and 2010 included the following components:   
   
    The weighted-average assumed discount rate and compensation increases used to determine the projected
benefit obligations for the US and International plans were as follows:       
    The changes in the projected benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status of the plans were as
follows:       
 
         59   

The unfunded liability represents the difference between the plan assets and the projected
benefit obligation ( PBO ). The PBO represents the actuarial present value of benefits based on employee service and compensation and includes an assumption about future compensation levels. The accumulated benefit obligation represents
the actuarial present value of benefits based on employee service and compensation, but does not include an assumption about future compensation levels.      The weighted-average allocation of plan assets and the target allocation by asset category are as follows:       
    Schlumberger s investment policy includes various guidelines and procedures designed to ensure that
assets are prudently invested in a manner necessary to meet the future benefit obligation of the pension plans. The policy does not permit the direct investment of plan assets in any Schlumberger security. Schlumberger s investment horizon is
long-term and accordingly the target asset allocations encompass a strategic, long-term perspective of capital markets, expected risk and return behavior and perceived future economic conditions. The key investment principles of diversification,
assessment of risk and targeting the optimal expected returns for given levels of risk are applied. The target asset allocation is reviewed periodically and is determined based on a long-term projection of capital market outcomes, inflation rates,
fixed income yields, returns, volatilities and correlation relationships. The inclusion of any given asset class in the target asset allocation is considered in relation to its impact on the overall risk/return characteristics as well as its impact
on the overall investment return. As part of its strategy, Schlumberger may utilize certain derivative instruments, such as options, futures, swaps and forwards, within the plans to manage risks (currency, interest rate, etc.), as a substitute for
physical securities or to obtain exposure to different markets.      Asset performance is monitored frequently with an overall
expectation that plan assets will meet or exceed the weighted index of its target asset allocation and component benchmark over rolling five-year periods.      The expected long-term rate of return on assets assumptions reflect the average rate of earnings expected on funds invested or to be invested. The assumptions have been determined by reflecting
expectations regarding future rates of return for the portfolio considering the asset allocation and related historical rates of return. The appropriateness of the assumptions is reviewed annually.   
  The fair value of Schlumberger s pension plan assets at December 31, 2012 and 2011, by asset category, are presented below and
were determined based on valuation techniques categorized as follows:       

Level One: The use of quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.      

Level Two: The use of quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets or quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are
not active or other inputs that are observable in the market or can be corroborated by observable market data.          

Level Three: The use of significantly unobservable inputs that typically require the use of management s estimates of assumptions that market
participants would use in pricing.      
         60   

(a)  
  US equities include companies that are well diversified by industry sector and equity style (i.e., growth and value strategies). Active and passive management
strategies are employed. Investments are primarily in large capitalization stocks and, to a lesser extent, mid- and small-cap stocks.         

(b)  
  International equities are invested in companies that are traded on exchanges outside the US and are well diversified by industry sector, country and equity style.
Active and passive strategies are employed. The vast majority of the investments are made in companies in developed markets with a small percentage in emerging markets.     

(c)  
  Corporate bonds consist primarily of investment grade bonds from diversified industries.     

(d)  
  Government and government-related debt securities are comprised primarily of inflation protected US treasuries and, to a lesser extent, other government-related
securities.         

(e)  
  Government agency collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage backed-securities are debt obligations that represent claims to the cash flows from pools of mortgage
loans which are purchased from banks, mortgage companies, and other originators and then assembled into pools by governmental and quasi-governmental entities.     

(f)  
  Other collateralized mortgage obligations and mortgage-backed securities are debt obligations that represent claims to the cash flows from pools of mortgage loans which
are purchased from banks, mortgage companies, and other originators and then assembled into pools by private entities.         

(g)  
  Private equity includes investments in several fund of funds limited partnerships.     

(h)  
  Real estate primarily includes investments in real estate limited partnerships, concentrated in commercial real estate.     
         61   

The funding policy is to annually contribute amounts that are based upon a number of factors
including the actuarial accrued liability, amounts that are deductible for income tax purposes, legal funding requirements and available cash flow. Schlumberger currently anticipates contributing approximately $650 million to its postretirement
benefit plans in 2013, subject to market and business conditions.        Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions     
  Schlumberger provides certain health care benefits to former US employees who have retired.   
  The actuarial assumptions used to determine the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation and net periodic benefit cost for the US
postretirement medical plan were as follows:       
    The net periodic benefit cost for the US postretirement medical plan included the following components:
      
    The changes in the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation, plan assets and funded status were as
follows:       
    The unfunded liability is included in  Postretirement Benefits  in the Consolidated Balance Sheet.
     The assets of the US postretirement medical plan are invested 63% in US equity securities and 37% in government and
government-related debt securities. The fair value of these assets were determined based on quoted prices in active markets for identical instruments.   
         62   

Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on the amounts reported for
the US postretirement medical plan. A one percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:       

(Stated in millions)   

One percentage point increase   

One percentage point decrease   

Effect on total service and interest cost components   
      
   $   
   18   

$   
   (14   
   )     
 
    Effect on accumulated postretirement benefit obligation   
      
   $   
   287   

$   
   (203   
   )     
      Other Information        The expected benefits to be paid under the US and International pension plans as well as the postretirement medical plan (which is disclosed net of the annual Medicare Part D subsidy, which ranges from $4
million to $11 million per year) were as follows:       
    Included in  Accumulated other comprehensive loss  at December 31, 2012 are non-cash pretax
charges which have not yet been recognized in net periodic benefit cost. The estimated amounts that will be amortized from the estimated portion of each component of  Accumulated other comprehensive loss  which is expected to be recognized as a
component of net periodic benefit cost during the year ending December 31, 2013 are as follows:       

(Stated in millions)   

Pension Plans   

Postretirement Medical     Plan   

Net actuarial losses   
      
   $   
   249   

$  
  27  

Prior service cost (credit)   
      
   $   
   133   

$  
  (4  
  )    
    In addition to providing defined pension benefits and a postretirement medical plan, Schlumberger and its
subsidiaries have other deferred benefit programs, primarily profit sharing and defined contribution pension plans. Expenses for these programs were $620 million, $582 million and $403 million in 2012, 2011 and 2010, respectively.   
    19.      Supplementary Information     
   Cash paid for interest and income taxes was as follows:   
   
     Accounts payable and accrued liabilities  are summarized as follows:   

63   

Interest and other income  includes the following:   
   
     Allowance for doubtful accounts  is as follows:   
   
      Discontinued Operations        During the second quarter of 2012, Schlumberger sold its Wilson distribution business to National Oilwell Varco Inc. ( NOV ) for $906 million in cash. A pretax gain of $137 million ($16 million
after-tax) was recognized in connection with this transaction.      During the third quarter of 2012, Schlumberger completed the
sale of its 56% interest in CE Franklin Ltd. to NOV for $122 million in cash. A pretax gain of $30 million ($12 million after-tax) was recognized in connection with this transaction.   
  As Wilson and CE Franklin comprised Schlumberger s previously reported Distribution segment, the results of this entire segment have
been classified as discontinued operations in the  Consolidated Statement of Income .      During the second quarter of 2011,
Schlumberger completed the divestiture of its Global Connectivity Services business for $385 million in cash. An after-tax gain of $220 million was recognized in connection with this transaction, and is classified in  Income from discontinued
operations  in the  Consolidated Statement of Income . The historical results of this business were not significant to Schlumberger s consolidated financial statements and, as such, have not been reclassified to discontinued operations.
     The following table summarizes the results of these discontinued operations:   

64   

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting    
  Schlumberger management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in
Rule 13a   15(f) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Schlumberger s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.      Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate
because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  Schlumberger management assessed the effectiveness of its internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012. In
making this assessment, it used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in Internal Control   Integrated Framework. Based on this assessment Schlumberger s management has
concluded that, as of December 31, 2012, its internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria.      The effectiveness of Schlumberger s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting
firm, as stated in their report which appears herein.   
         65   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
      To the Board of Directors and Stockholders      of Schlumberger Limited      In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets and the related consolidated statements of income, of comprehensive income, of stockholders  equity and of cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Schlumberger Limited and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 2012 and 2011, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2012 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2012, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework 
issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its
assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements
and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require
that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our
audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and
testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed
to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company;
(ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being
made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s
assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control
over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.       /s/    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP    
  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP      Houston, Texas
     January 31, 2013   
         66   

Quarterly Results      
  (Unaudited)      The following table
summarizes Schlumberger s results by quarter for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011.       

1.    
    Gross margin equals  Revenue  less  Cost of revenue .      

2.    
    Amounts may not add due to rounding.      

*  
  Mark of Schlumberger         

Item 9.    
    Changes in and Di  sagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.       
  None.       

Item 9A.    
    Controls and   Procedures.          Schlumberger has carried out an evaluation under the supervision and with the participation of Schlumberger s management, including the Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) and the Chief
Financial Officer ( CFO ), of the effectiveness of Schlumberger s  disclosure controls and procedures  (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange
Act )) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on this evaluation, the CEO and the CFO have concluded that, as of the end of the period covered by this report, Schlumberger s disclosure controls and procedures were
effective to provide reasonable assurance that information required to be disclosed in the reports that Schlumberger files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the
Securities and Exchange Commission s rules and forms. Schlumberger s disclosure controls and procedures include controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports filed or submitted under the
Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to its management, including the CEO and the CFO, as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. There has been no change in Schlumberger s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the fourth quarter of 2012 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Schlumberger s internal control over financial reporting.   
         67   

Item 9B.    
    Other Inform  ation.          None.         PART III    

Item 10.    
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance of Schlumberger.       
  See  Item 1. Business   Executive Officers of Schlumberger  of this Report for Item 10 information regarding executive
officers of Schlumberger. The information under the captions  Election of Directors,   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,   Corporate Governance   Director Nominations  and  Corporate
Governance   Board Committees   Audit Committee  in Schlumberger s 2013 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.      Schlumberger has adopted a Code of Ethics that applies to all of its directors, officers and employees, including its principal executive, financial and accounting officers, or persons performing similar
functions. Schlumberger s Code of Ethics is posted on its corporate governance website located at  www.slb.com/ir . In addition, amendments to the Code of Ethics and any grant of a waiver from a provision of the Code of Ethics requiring
disclosure under applicable SEC rules will be disclosed on Schlumberger s corporate governance website located at  www.slb.com/ir .       

Item 11.    
    Executive Compensation.          The information set forth under the captions  Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Executive Compensation Tables and Accompanying Narrative,   Compensation Committee
Report  and  Director Compensation in Fiscal Year 2012  in Schlumberger s 2013 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 12.    
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.       
  The information under the captions  Stock Ownership Information   Security Ownership by Certain Beneficial Owners, 
 Stock Ownership Information   Security Ownership by Management  and  Equity Compensation Plan Information  in Schlumberger s 2013 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.   

Item 13.    
    Certain Relations  hips and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.       
  The information under the captions  Corporate Governance   Board Independence  and  Corporate Governance  
Policies and Procedures for Approval of Related Person Transactions  in Schlumberger s 2013 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.       

Item 14.    
    Principal Accounting Fees and Services.          The information under the caption  Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in Schlumberger s 2013 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference.   
   PART   IV        

Item 15.    
    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.           

(a)  
  The following documents are filed as part of this Report:         
 
         68   

Financial statements of companies accounted for under the equity
method and unconsolidated subsidiaries have been omitted because they do not meet the materiality tests for assets or income.   

(2)    Financial Statement Schedules not required   

(3)    Exhibits: the exhibits listed in the accompanying  Index to Exhibits  are filed or
incorporated by reference as part of this Form 10-K.   

69   

SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this
Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

Date: January 31, 2013  

S CHLUMBERGER  L IMITED    

By:     
     
  / S /     H OWARD  G UILD    

Howard Guild   

Chief Accounting Officer   
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by
the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Name   
      
   Title    

*  
      
    Director and Chief Executive Officer    
 
    Paal Kibsgaard   
      
    (Principal Executive Officer)    

/ S / S IMON  A YAT   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer    
 
  Simon Ayat  
      
    (Principal Financial Officer)    

/ S / H OWARD  G UILD   

Chief Accounting Officer    
 
  Howard Guild  
      
    (Principal Accounting Officer)    

*  
      
    Director    
 
  Peter L.S. Currie  

*  
      
    Chairman    
 
  Tony Isaac  

*  
      
    Director    
 
  K.V. Kamath  

*  
      
    Director    
 
  Nikolay Kudryavtsev  

*  
      
    Director    
 
  Adrian Lajous  

*  
      
    Director    
 
  Michael E. Marks  

*  
      
    Director    
 
  Elizabeth Moler  

*  
      
    Director    
 
  Lubna S. Olayan  

*  
      
    Director    
 
  Leo Rafael Reif  

*  
      
    Director    
 
  Tore Sandvold  

*  
      
    Director    
 
  Henri Seydoux  

/ S / A LEXANDER  C. J UDEN   

January 31, 2013    
 
  *By Alexander C. Juden Attorney-in-Fact  

70   

INDEX TO EXHIBITS        
 
         71   

Exhibit    

Form of Smith International, Inc. 2010 Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to
Schlumberger s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010) (+)   
      
  10.15   

Employment Agreement dated March 9, 2010 and effective as of February 9, 2010, between Schlumberger Limited and Chakib
Sbiti (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to Schlumberger s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2010) (+)   
      
  10.16   

Form of Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Schlumberger s Current Report on Form 8-K
filed on April 22, 2005)   
      
  10.17   

Subsidiaries (*)   
      
  21   

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (*)   
      
  23   

Powers of Attorney (*)   
      
  24   

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 (*)   
      
  31.1   

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) as Adopted Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley
Act of 2002 (*)   
      
  31.2   

Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (*)   
      
  32.1   

Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of
the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (*)   
      
  32.2   

Mine Safety Disclosure (*)   
      
  95   

The following materials from Schlumberger Limited s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2012,
formatted in XBRL (eXtensible Business Reporting Lanuage): (i) Consolidated Statement of Income, (ii) Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, (iii) Consolidated Balance Sheet, (iv) Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows,
(v) Consolidated Statement of Equity and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, tagged as blocks of text. (*)   
      
  101   

(*) Exhibits electronically filed with this Form 10-K. All other exhibits incorporated by reference.   

(+) Management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.   

72   

<EX-21>
 2
 d456349dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES

Subsidiaries 

Exhibit 21          Significant Subsidiaries        Listed below are the significant subsidiaries
of the Registrant as of December 31, 2012, and the states or jurisdictions in which they are incorporated or organized. The indentation reflects the principal parenting of each subsidiary. The names of other subsidiaries have been omitted from
the list below, since they would not constitute, in the aggregate, a significant subsidiary as of December 31, 2012.      Schlumberger
Antilles N.V., Curacao      Schlumberger B.V., Netherlands      Schlumberger Canada Limited, Canada      Schlumberger SA, France   
  Services Petroliers Schlumberger, France      Schlumberger Norge AS, Norway      Schlumberger Holdings Corporation, Delaware
     Schlumberger Technology Corporation, Texas      Smith International Inc, Delaware      Schlumberger UK Limited, UK   
  M-I Holdings (UK) Limited, UK      Schlumberger Plc, UK      Schlumberger Oilfield UK Plc, UK   
  M-I Holdings BV, Netherlands   
  Schlumberger Oilfield Holdings Limited, BVI      Schlumberger Holdings Limited, BVI      Dowell Schlumberger Corporation, BVI
     Schlumberger Logelco, Inc., Panama      Schlumberger Middle East SA., Panama      Schlumberger Offshore Services Limited, BVI
     Schlumberger Overseas, SA, Panama      Schlumberger Seaco, Inc., Panama      Schlumberger Surenco, SA, Panama   
  WesternGeco Seismic Holdings Limited, BVI   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 3
 d456349dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

Exhibit 23     
   Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-104225; 333-36364; 333-115277; 333-124534; 333-151920; and 333-173055, as amended by post-effective
amendment on Form S-8), on Form S-3 (No. 333-173368); and on Form S-4 (Nos. 333-97899 and 333-166326, as amended by post-effective amendment on Form S-8) of Schlumberger Limited of our report dated January 31, 2013 relating to the consolidated
financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K.      

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP    

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP   
 
  Houston, Texas   
 
  January 31, 2013    

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 4
 d456349dex24.htm
 POWER OF ATTORNEY

Power of Attorney 

Exhibit 24     
   Powers of Attorney       Each of the undersigned, in the capacity or capacities set forth below his or her signature as a member of the Board of Directors and/or an officer of Schlumberger Limited, a Cura ao corporation
( the Corporation ), hereby appoints Simon Ayat, Howard Guild and Alexander C. Juden, or either of them, the attorney or attorneys of the undersigned, with full power of substitution and revocation, for and in the name, place and stead of
the undersigned to execute and file with the Securities and Exchange Commission the Annual Report on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ) for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2012, and any
amendment or amendments to any such Annual Report on Form 10-K, and any agreements, consents or waivers relative thereto, and to take any and all such other action for and in the name and place and stead of the undersigned as may be necessary
or desirable in order to comply with the Exchange Act or the rules and regulations thereunder.       

/s/    Peter L.S.
Currie             Peter L.S. Currie  
  Director   

/s/    Michael E.
Marks             Michael E. Marks  
  Director    

/s/    Tony
Isaac             Tony Isaac  
  Chairman of the Board   

/s/    Elizabeth A.
Moler             Elizabeth A. Moler  
  Director    

/s/    K.Vaman
Kamath             K.Vaman Kamath  
  Director   

/s/    Lubna S.
Olayan             Lubna S. Olayan  
  Director    

/s/    Paal
Kibsgaard             Paal Kibsgaard  
  Director and Chief Executive Officer   

/s/    Leo Rafael
Reif             Leo Rafael Reif  
  Director    

/s/    Nikolay
Kudryavtsev             Nikolay Kudryavtsev  
  Director   

/s/    Tore
Sandvold             Tore Sandvold  
  Director    

/s/    Adrian
Lajous             Adrian Lajous  
  Director   

/s/    Henri
Seydoux             Henri Seydoux  
  Director    
    Date: January 17, 2013   

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 d456349dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 31.1     
    CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER        I, Paal Kibsgaard, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form
10-K of Schlumberger Limited;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and
       5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.         

Date: January 31, 2013  

/s/     Paal Kibsgaard   

Paal Kibsgaard   

Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 d456349dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 31.2     
    CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER        I, Simon Ayat, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K
of Schlumberger Limited;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or
omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;   
  3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;     

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;     

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and
       5. The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):   

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.         

Date: January 31, 2013  

/s/     Simon Ayat   

Simon Ayat   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 d456349dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

Exhibit 32.1     
   CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER        PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger Limited) (the  Company ) for the year ended December 31, 2012 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Paal Kibsgaard,
Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), and   
  (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations
of the Company.       

Date: January 31, 2013  

/s/    Paal Kibsgaard   

Paal Kibsgaard   

Chief Executive Officer   
    A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Schlumberger
Limited and will be retained by Schlumberger Limited and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.      This certification accompanies the Report pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 d456349dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

Exhibit 32.2     
   CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER        PURSUANT TO        18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350    
   AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       In connection with the Annual
Report on Form 10-K of Schlumberger N.V. (Schlumberger Limited) (the  Company ) for the year ended December 31, 2012 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Simon Ayat,
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:   
  (1) The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the
 Exchange Act ), and      (2) The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.       

Date: January 31, 2013  

/s/    Simon Ayat   

Simon Ayat   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer   
    A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Schlumberger
Limited and will be retained by Schlumberger Limited and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.      This certification accompanies the Report pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and shall not be deemed filed by the Company for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act.

</EX-32.2>

<EX-95>
 9
 d456349dex95.htm
 MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURE

Mine Safety Disclosure 

Exhibit 95     
   Mine Safety Disclosure       The following disclosure is provided pursuant to Section 1503(a) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which requires certain disclosures by companies required to file
periodic reports under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, that operate mines regulated under the Federal Mine Safety and Health Act of 1977.      The table that follows reflects citations, orders, violations and proposed assessments issued by the Mine Safety and Health Administration (the  MSHA ) to M-I LLC, which, following
Schlumberger s acquisition of Smith International, Inc., is an indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of Schlumberger. The disclosure is with respect to the year ended December 31, 2012. Due to timing and other factors, the data may not agree
with the mine data retrieval system maintained by the MSHA at www.MSHA.gov.        Full Year 2012     

(1)  
  Amounts included are the total dollar value of proposed or outstanding assessments received from MSHA on or before December 31, 2012 regardless of whether the
assessment has been challenged or appealed, for citations and orders occurring during the full year 2012. Citations and orders can be contested and appealed, and as part of that process, are sometimes reduced in severity and amount, and sometimes
dismissed. The number of citations, orders, and proposed assessments vary by inspector and also vary depending on the size and type of the operation.        * As of December 31, 2012, the MSHA had not yet proposed assessments for some citations relating to this entry, as follows: two Section 104(a) citations at Amelia Barite Plant; and 18
Section 104(a) citations at Greystone Mine, 14 of which have since been assessed during 2013 for a total of $1,478.      ** This amount
includes $925 corresponding to three citations that were issued in connection with an October 31, 2012 inspection. For purposes of this table, we have assumed, but are not able to confirm, that the assessments were made during 2012.   

</EX-95>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 slb-20121231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 slb-20121231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 slb-20121231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 slb-20121231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 slb-20121231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 slb-20121231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

