<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100219_10-K_edgar_data_14272_0001193125-10-035167_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>9483746</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>600906</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>285725</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2378041</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>2898522</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2810399</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>147</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-10-035167.hdr.sgml : 20100219
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100219153821
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-10-035167
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		19
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100219
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100219

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BRISTOL MYERS SQUIBB CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000014272
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				220790350
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-01136
		FILM NUMBER:		10619545

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		345 PARK AVE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10154
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2125464000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		345 PARK AVE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10154

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	BRISTOL MYERS CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19891012

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 TsDJZDxr1s0CzVLmqBs4UE/GoSlW+/AO+ViQ3FtUuqno3ohBG9kL7kOfVhkZvChn
 ZcBaoBg/k1Y7wJUpjMvouA==

 0001193125-10-035167.txt : 20100219

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549                  FORM 10-K  
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934        For the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2009        Commission File Number 1-1136                  BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY        (Exact name of
registrant as specified in its charter)                  

Delaware   
     
   22-0790350    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of       incorporation or organization)    
     
     (IRS Employer       Identification No.)          345 Park Avenue, New York, N.Y.
10154        (Address of principal executive offices)        Telephone: (212) 546-4000        Securities
registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
   Common Stock, $0.10 Par Value   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    

$2 Convertible Preferred Stock, $1 Par Value   
     
   New York Stock Exchange         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None                 Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a
non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  accelerated filer ,  large accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.      

Large accelerated filer        
      
    Accelerated filer        
      
    Non-accelerated filer        
      
    Smaller reporting company             Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange
Act).    Yes         No           The aggregate market value of the 1,712,792,039 shares of voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant,
computed by reference to the closing price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, as of the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter (June 30, 2009) was approximately $34,786,806,312.
Bristol-Myers Squibb has no non-voting common equity. At February 1, 2010, there were 1,714,140,539 shares of common stock outstanding.      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: Portions of the Proxy Statement for the registrant s Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 4, 2010 are incorporated by reference into Part III
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.               

Table of Contents  

    PART I        

Item 1.   
   BUSINESS.          General       Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, the Company, we, our or us) was incorporated under the
laws of the State of Delaware in August 1933 under the name Bristol-Myers Company, as successor to a New York business started in 1887. In 1989, Bristol-Myers Company changed its name to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company as a result of a merger. We are
engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of pharmaceutical products on a global basis.      Over the last few years, we executed our strategy to transform into a next generation biopharmaceutical company. This transformation encompassed all areas of our business and operations. As part of this
strategy, we have divested our non-pharmaceutical businesses, implemented our acquisition and licensing strategy known as the  string-of-pearls , and executed our productivity transformation initiative (PTI). With respect to divestitures,
we sold our Medical Imaging business in January 2008, sold our ConvaTec business in August 2008, and divested the Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (Mead Johnson) in December 2009. During the same period, we completed numerous acquisition and licensing
transactions, including the acquisitions of Adnexus Therapeutics, Inc. in October 2007, Kosan Biosciences, Inc. in June 2008 and Medarex, Inc.(Medarex) in September 2009.      Complementing these divestitures and acquisitions, we executed a productivity transformation initiative to enhance our efficiency, effectiveness and competitiveness, and to continue to improve our cost
base. As part of the PTI, we have reduced general and administrative operations by simplifying, standardizing and outsourcing certain processes and services, rationalized our mature brands portfolio, consolidated our global manufacturing network
while eliminating complexity and enhancing profitability, simplified our geographic footprint and implemented a more efficient go-to-market model. We are meeting our PTI targets and have implemented a culture of continuous improvement.   
  We report financial and operating information in one segment BioPharmaceuticals. For additional information about business segments,
see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Business Segment Information.       We compete with other worldwide
research-based drug companies, smaller research companies and generic drug manufacturers. Our products are sold worldwide, primarily to wholesalers, retail pharmacies, hospitals, government entities and the medical profession. We manufacture
products in the United States (U.S.), Puerto Rico and in 8 foreign countries.      U.S. net sales accounted for 63%, 60% and 58%
of total net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, while net sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa accounted for 22% of total net sales in 2009 and 25% in 2008 and 2007. Net sales in Japan accounted for 3% of total net sales in 2009 and 2008
and 4% in 2007. Net sales in Canada accounted for 3% of total net sales in 2009, 2008 and 2007.       Products       Our pharmaceutical products include chemically-synthesized drugs, or small molecules, and an increasing portion of biological products, or
 biologics  or large molecules. Small molecule drugs are typically administered orally in the form of a pill, although there are other drug delivery mechanisms that are used as well. Biologics are typically administered to patients through
injections. Most of our revenues come from products in the following therapeutic classes: cardiovascular; virology, including human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection; oncology; neuroscience; immunoscience; and metabolics.      In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which
the product has market exclusivity. Our business is focused on innovative biopharmaceutical products, and we rely on patent rights and other forms of regulatory protection to maintain the market exclusivity of our products. In the U.S., the European
Union (EU) and some other countries, when these patent rights and other forms of exclusivity expire and generic versions of a medicine are approved and marketed, there are often very substantial and rapid declines in the sales of the original
innovative product. For further discussion of patent rights and regulatory forms of exclusivity, see   Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity  below. For further discussion of the impact of generic competition on our business,
see    Generic Competition   below.      The chart below shows our key products together with the year in
which the earliest basic exclusivity loss (patent rights or data exclusivity) occurred or is currently estimated to occur in the U.S., the EU, Japan and Canada. We also sell our pharmaceutical products in other countries; however, data is not
provided on a country-by-country basis because individual country sales are not significant outside the U.S., the EU, Japan and Canada. In many instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed below is the expiration date of the patent that claims
the active ingredient of the drug or the method of using the drug for the approved indication, if there is only one approved indication. In some instances, the basic exclusivity loss date listed in the chart is the expiration date of
        
   2   

Table of Contents  

the data exclusivity period. In situations where there is only data exclusivity without patent protection, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data to
obtain marketing approval prior to the expiration of data exclusivity.      We estimate the market exclusivity period for each of
our products on a case-by-case basis for the purposes of business planning only. The length of market exclusivity for any of our products is impossible to predict with certainty because of the complex interaction between patent and regulatory forms
of exclusivity and the inherent uncertainties regarding patent litigation. There can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimate or that the exclusivity will be
limited to the estimate.      The following schedule presents net sales of our key products and estimated basic exclusivity loss in the U.S., EU,
Japanese and Canadian markets:       
    Note: The currently estimated earliest year of basic exclusivity loss includes any statutory extensions of exclusivity that have been earned, but not those that have not yet been granted. In some instances, we may be able to obtain an
additional six months exclusivity for a product based on the pediatric extension, for example. In certain other instances, there may be later-expiring patents that cover particular forms or compositions of the drug, as well as methods of
manufacturing or methods of using the drug. Such patents may sometimes result in a favorable market position for our products, but product exclusivity cannot be predicted or assured. Note also that, for products filed under a Biologics License
Application (BLA) in the U.S., the year of exclusivity is listed as the year of patent expiration even though there is currently not a regulatory pathway for the approval of follow-on biologic products, as described in more detail in
  Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity  below.       

*  
    Indicates brand names of products which are registered trademarks not owned by us or our subsidiaries. Specific trademark ownership information can
be found on page 136.      

++  
    We do not currently market the product in the country or region indicated.      

(a)  
    References to the EU throughout this Form 10-K include all 27 member states that were members of the European Union during the year ended
December 31, 2009. Basic patent applications have not been filed in all 27 current member states for all of the listed products. In some instances the date of basic exclusivity loss will be different in various EU member states. In such
instances, the earliest and latest dates of basic exclusivity loss are listed. For those EU countries where the basic patent was not obtained, there may be data protection available.      

(b)  
    Data exclusivity in the EU expired in July 2008. In most of the major markets within Europe, the product has national patents, expiring in 2013,
which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel. However, generic and alternate salt forms of clopidogrel bisulfate are marketed and compete with PLAVIX* throughout the EU.      

(d)  
    Exclusivity period relates to the SUSTIVA brand and does not include exclusivity related to any combination therapy.      

(e)  
    Our rights to commercialize cetuximab terminate in 2018. It is not possible to accurately assess the length of exclusivity. ERBITUX is a biologic
and in the U.S. there is currently no regulatory approval path for generic biologics, though this is expected to change in the future.      

(f)  
    Pending application. EU patent applications were not filed in Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Slovakia and Slovenia.

(g)  
    Although ixabepilone is not approved to be marketed in the EU, it is approved and marketed in Switzerland and the composition of matter patent is
expected to expire in 2018.      

(h)  
    Our rights to commercialize aripiprazole in the U.S. terminate in April 2015.      

(i)  
    Our rights to commercialize aripiprazole in the EU terminate in 2014. Patent protection in Romania and Denmark expired in 2009.

(j)  
    Biologic product approved under a BLA. In the U.S., there is currently no regulatory approval path for generic biologics, though this is expected to
change in the future.      

(m)  
    Exclusivity period is based on regulatory data protection.            
   3   

Table of Contents  

   Below is a summary of the indication, intellectual property position, product partner, if
any, and third-party manufacturing arrangements, if any, for each of the above products in the U.S. and, where applicable, the EU, Japan and Canada.       Cardiovascular        

PLAVIX*   
      
    Clopidogrel bisulfate is a platelet aggregation inhibitor, which is approved for protection against fatal or non-fatal heart attack or stroke in patients with
a history of heart attack, stroke, peripheral arterial disease or acute coronary syndrome.    

In 2009, the U.S. PLAVIX* label was updated with new warnings on the use of PRILOSEC* (omeprazole) and certain other drugs that could interfere with PLAVIX*
by reducing its effectiveness. The label was also updated to include warnings about the variability of response attributed to CYP 2C19 genetic polymorphisms. We are currently in discussions with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) about
possible additional changes to the U.S. PLAVIX* label.    

Clopidogrel bisulfate was codeveloped and is jointly marketed with sanofi-aventis (sanofi). For more information about our alliance with sanofi, see
  Strategic Alliances and Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.     

The composition of matter patent in the U.S. currently expires in November 2011 (not including a possible six month pediatric extension), and is the subject
of patent litigation in the U.S. with Apotex and other generic companies, as well as in other less significant jurisdictions. For more information about these litigation matters, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 24. Legal Proceedings
and Contingencies.     

In the EU, regulatory data exclusivity protection expired in July 2008. In most of the major markets within Europe, PLAVIX* benefits from national patents,
expiring in 2013, which specifically claim the bisulfate form of clopidogrel. In the remainder of EU member countries, however, there is no composition of matter patent covering clopidogrel bisulfate. PLAVIX* is subject to competition in many
markets of the EU from both generic clopidogrel bisulfate in those markets where there is no composition of matter patent and from alternative salt forms of clopidogrel over which we and sanofi hold no patent.    

We obtain our bulk requirements for clopidogrel bisulfate from sanofi and a third-party. Both the Company and sanofi finish the product in our own facilities.

AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*   
      
    Irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide is an angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension and diabetic
nephropathy.    

Irbesartan was codeveloped and is jointly marketed with sanofi. For more information about our alliance with sanofi, see   Strategic Alliances and
Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.     

The basic composition of matter patent in the U.S. expires in 2012 (including a pediatric extension) and in most countries in the EU in 2012 to 2013. Data
exclusivity in the EU expired in August 2007 for AVAPRO* and in October 2008 for AVALIDE*.    

Irbesartan is manufactured by both the Company and sanofi. We manufacture our bulk requirements for irbesartan and finish AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in our facilities.
For AVALIDE*, we purchase bulk requirements for hydrochlorothiazide from a third-party.    

Virology   

REYATAZ   
      
    Atazanavir sulfate is a protease inhibitor for the treatment of HIV. REYATAZ was launched in the U.S. in July 2003.    

We developed atazanavir under a worldwide license from Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation (Novartis) for which a royalty is paid based on a percentage of net
sales. We are entitled to promote REYATAZ for use in combination with NORVIR* (ritonavir) under a non-exclusive license agreement with Abbott Laboratories, as amended, for which a royalty is paid based on a percentage of net
sales.    

Market exclusivity for REYATAZ is expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., the major EU member countries and Japan. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2014.
Two U.S. patents are the subject of patent litigation in the U.S. For more information about this litigation matter, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 24. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.     

We manufacture our bulk requirements for atazanavir and finish the product in our facilities.           
   4   

Table of Contents  

SUSTIVA Franchise   
      
    Efavirenz, the active ingredient in SUSTIVA, is a non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV. The SUSTIVA Franchise includes
SUSTIVA, an antiretroviral drug used in the treatment of HIV, and as well as bulk efavirenz which is included in the combination therapy ATRIPLA* (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine 200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a once-daily single
tablet three-drug regimen combining our SUSTIVA and Gilead Sciences, Inc. s (Gilead) TRUVADA* (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate). ATRIPLA* is the first complete Highly Active Antiretroviral Therapy treatment product for HIV
available in the U.S. in a fixed-dose combination taken once daily. Fixed-dose combinations contain multiple medicines formulated together and help simplify HIV therapy for patients and providers. For more information about our arrangement with
Gilead, see   Strategic Alliances and Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.     

Rights to market efavirenz in the U.S., Canada, the United Kingdom (UK), France, Germany, Ireland, Italy and Spain are licensed from Merck   Co., Inc. for
a royalty based on a percentage of net sales.    

The composition of matter patent for efavirenz in the U.S. expires in 2013, but a method of use patent for the treatment of HIV infection expires in 2014,
with a possible six month pediatric extension.    

Market exclusivity for SUSTIVA is expected to expire in 2013 in countries in the EU; we do not, but another company does, market efavirenz in Japan. Certain
ATRIPLA* patents are the subject of patent litigation in the U.S. At this time, our patents covering efavirenz composition of matter and method of use have not been challenged. For more information about this litigation matter, see  Item 8.
Financial Statements Note 24. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.     

We obtain our bulk requirements for efavirenz from third parties and produce finished goods in our facilities. We provide bulk efavirenz to Gilead, who is
responsible for producing the finished ATRIPLA* product.    

BARACLUDE   
      
    Entecavir is a potent and selective inhibitor of hepatitis B virus that was approved by the FDA in March 2005 for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B
infection. BARACLUDE was discovered and developed internally. It has also been approved and is marketed in over 50 countries outside of the U.S., including China, Japan and the EU.    

We have a composition of matter patent that expires in the U.S. in 2015. The composition of matter patent expires in the EU between 2011 and 2016 and in Japan
in 2016. There is uncertainty about China s exclusivity laws and, due to this uncertainty, it is possible that one or more companies in China could receive marketing authorization from China s health authority at any time to produce and
market a generic form of entecavir in China.    

We manufacture our bulk requirements for entecavir and finish the product in our facilities.    

Oncology   

ERBITUX*   
      
    Cetuximab is an IgG1 monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor (EGFR), which is expressed on the
surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as some normal cells. ERBITUX*, a biological product, is approved for the treatment in combination with irinotecan for patients with EGFR-expressing metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC)
who have failed an irinotecan-based regimen and as monotherapy for patients who are intolerant of irinotecan. The FDA has also approved ERBITUX* for use in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Specifically, ERBITUX* was
approved for use in combination with radiation therapy, for the treatment of locally or regionally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck and, as a single agent, for the treatment of patients with recurrent or metastatic squamous cell
carcinoma of the head and neck for whom prior platinum-based therapy has failed.    

In October 2008, the FDA accepted for filing a supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) for the first-line squamous cell carcinoma of the head and
neck and granted it a priority review status. The FDA has since requested interim data from an additional study to complete the review of this application. We continue to work with the FDA to provide the requested
information.           
   5   

Table of Contents  

ERBITUX* is marketed in North America by us under an agreement with ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone), the predecessor company of ImClone LLC, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly). We share copromotion rights to ERBITUX* with Merck KGaA in Japan under a codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement signed in October 2007 with ImClone, Merck KGaA and Merck Japan.
ERBITUX* received marketing approval in Japan in July 2008 for the use of ERBITUX* in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer. For a description of our alliance with ImClone, see   Strategic Alliances and
Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.     

There is no patent that specifically claims the composition of matter of cetuximab, the active molecule in ERBITUX*. ERBITUX* has been approved by the FDA and
other health authorities for monotherapy, for which there is no use patent. The use of ERBITUX* in combination with an anti-neoplastic agent is approved by the FDA. Such combination use is claimed in a granted U.S. patent that expires in 2017. The
inventorship of this use patent was challenged by three researchers from Yeda Research and Development Company Ltd. (Yeda). Pursuant to a settlement agreement executed and announced in December 2007 by ImClone, sanofi and Yeda to end worldwide
litigation related to the use patent, sanofi and Yeda granted ImClone a worldwide license under the use patent. The settlement agreement did not change the distribution fee we pay to ImClone on ERBITUX* sales.    

Yeda has the right to license the use patent to others. Yeda s license of the patent to third parties could result in product competition for ERBITUX*
that might not otherwise occur. We are unable to assess whether and to what extent any such competitive impact will occur or to quantify any such impact. However, Yeda has granted Amgen Inc. (Amgen) a license under the use patent. Amgen received FDA
approval to market an EGFR-product that competes with ERBITUX*.    

We obtain our finished goods requirements for cetuximab for use in North America from Lilly. Lilly manufactures bulk requirements for cetuximab in its own
facilities and finishing is performed by a third-party for Lilly. For a description of our supply agreement with Lilly, see   Manufacturing and Quality Assurance  below.    

SPRYCEL   
      
    Dasatinib is a multi-targeted tyrosine kinase inhibitor approved for treatment of adults with all phases of chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance or
intolerance to prior therapy, including GLEEVEC* (imatinib mesylate), and for the treatment of adults with Philadelphia chromosome-positive acute lymphoblastic leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy.    

A patent term extension has been granted in the U.S. extending the term on the basic composition of matter patent covering dasatinib until June 2020. In
several EU countries, the patent is pending and upon grant, would expire in April 2020 (excluding term extensions). In the U.S., New Chemical Entity regulatory exclusivity protection expires in 2011, and Orphan Drug Exclusivity expires in 2013,
which protects the product from generic applications for the currently approved orphan indications only.    

Dasatinib was discovered and developed internally. In April 2009, we entered into an oncology collaboration agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.
(Otsuka) covering SPRYCEL and IXEMPRA (ixabepilone). For more information about our arrangement with Otsuka, see   Strategic Alliances and Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and
Collaborations.     

We manufacture our bulk requirements for dasatinib and finish the product in our facilities.    

IXEMPRA   
      
    Ixabepilone is a microtubule inhibitor belonging to a class of antineoplastic agents, the epothilones and their analogs. In 2007, the FDA approved ixabepilone
in combination with capecitabine for the treatment of patients with metastatic or locally-advanced breast cancer resistant to treatment with an anthracycline and a taxane, or whose cancer is taxane resistant and for whom further anthracycline
therapy is contraindicated, and in monotherapy for the treatment of metastatic or locally-advanced breast cancer in patients whose tumors are resistant or refractory to anthracyclines, taxanes and capecitabine. We withdrew the marketing
authorization application in the EU in March 2009.    

The basic composition of matter patent protecting ixabepilone in the U.S. is due to expire in May 2018, and a patent term extension has been requested which,
upon grant, would extend the patent term until September 2020. In the U.S., New Chemical Entity regulatory exclusivity protection expires in 2012.           
   6   

Table of Contents  

Ixabepilone was developed by us, but is subject to a license agreement with Helmholtz Zentrum fur Infektionsforschung GmbH (HZI), relating to epothilone
technologies for which we pay a royalty based on a percentage of net sales. In April 2009, we entered into an oncology collaboration agreement with Otsuka covering SPRYCEL and IXEMPRA. For more information about our arrangement with Otsuka, see
  Strategic Alliances and Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.     

We manufacture our bulk requirements for ixabepilone in our facilities including the manufacturing of the active ingredient. The drug product, which comprises
a pharmaceutical kit, is finished by Baxter Oncology GmbH.    

Neuroscience   

ABILIFY*   
      
    Aripiprazole is an atypical antipsychotic agent for patients with schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder.    

We have a global commercialization agreement with Otsuka, except in Japan, China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia,
Pakistan and Egypt. For more information about our arrangement with Otsuka, see   Strategic Alliances and Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and
Collaborations.     

The basic U.S. composition of matter patent for ABILIFY* expires in April 2015 (including the granted patent term extension and six month pediatric
extension). The basic composition of matter patent protecting aripiprazole is the subject of patent litigation in the U.S. Otsuka has sole rights to enforce this patent. For more information about this litigation matter, see  Item 8. Financial
Statements Note 24. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.     

A composition of matter patent is in force in Germany, the UK, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Romania, Sweden, Switzerland, Spain and Denmark. The original
expiration date of 2009 has been extended to 2014 by grant of a supplementary protection certificate in all of the above countries except Romania and Denmark. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2014.    

We obtain our bulk requirements for aripiprazole from Otsuka. Both the Company and Otsuka finish the product in our own facilities.    

Immunoscience   

ORENCIA   
      
    Abatacept, a biological product, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted initially at adult patients with moderate to severe
rheumatoid arthritis, who have had an inadequate response to certain currently available treatments. Abatacept was approved by the FDA in December 2005 and made commercially available in the U.S. in February 2006. ORENCIA was discovered and
developed internally.    

We have a series of patents covering abatacept and its method of use. A patent term extension has been granted for one of the composition of matter patents,
extending the term of the patent to 2019. In the majority of the EU countries, we have a patent covering abatacept that expires in 2012. In a majority of these EU countries, we have applied for supplementary protection certificates, which would
extend the term of the patent if granted. Data exclusivity in the EU expires in 2017.    

We obtain bulk abatacept from a third-party and from our manufacturing facilities. We finish the product in our facilities.           
   7   

Table of Contents  

Metabolics   

ONGLYZA   
      
    Saxagliptin, a dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitor, is an oral compound indicated for the treatment of type 2 diabetes as an adjunct to diet and
exercise.    

ONGLYZA was discovered internally. We have a worldwide (except Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca) for
saxagliptin. For more information about our arrangement with AstraZeneca and with Otsuka for Japan, see   Strategic Alliances and Collaborations  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and
Collaborations.     

We own a patent covering saxagliptin as composition of matter that expires in 2021 in the U.S.    

We manufacture our bulk requirements for saxagliptin in our facilities including the manufacturing of the active ingredient. Both the Company and a
third-party finish the product in each of their own facilities.         Emerging Markets       We have refined our focus on emerging markets which represent significant opportunities for growth. Such markets are characterized by strong
economic development, a rising gross domestic product, a growing middle class and increasing wealth amongst the middle class as well as a demand for quality healthcare. Emerging markets may provide most of the growth opportunity in the
pharmaceuticals industry by the middle of the next decade. Our strategy to capitalize on this growth opportunity is an innovation-focused approach. With this approach, we will develop and commercialize select, innovative products in key high-growth
markets tailoring the approach to each market individually. We have identified five emerging markets on which to focus   Brazil, Russia, India, China and Turkey. The emerging public health interests of these countries best align with our
strategy as well as our current portfolio and pipeline. These countries have also been identified as having improving intellectual property protection. In order to capitalize on the growth opportunities in the emerging markets, we must balance
related risks as well as develop innovative pricing and access strategies to make products accessible to patients and provide a reasonable return on investment. These risks include intellectual property protection, currency volatility, reimbursement
issues, government stability and scale issues in these markets and are being addressed.       Research and Development       We invest heavily in research and development (R D) because we believe it is critical to our long-term competitiveness. We have major
R D facilities in Princeton, Hopewell and New Brunswick, New Jersey, Wallingford, Connecticut and Milpitas, California. Pharmaceutical research and development is also carried out at various other facilities in the U.S., Belgium, Canada, the UK
and India. Management continues to emphasize leadership, innovation, productivity and quality as strategies for success in our research and development activities.      We spent $3.6 billion in 2009, $3.5 billion in 2008 and $3.2 billion in 2007 on research and development activities. Research and development spending includes payments under third-party collaborations
and contracts. At the end of 2009, we employed approximately 8,000 people in R D activities, including a substantial number of physicians, scientists holding graduate or postgraduate degrees and higher-skilled technical personnel.      We concentrate our biopharmaceutical research and development efforts in the following disease areas with significant unmet medical need:
affective (psychiatric) disorders, Alzheimer s/dementia, cardiovascular (primarily atherosclerosis/thrombosis), diabetes, hepatitis, HIV/AIDS, obesity, oncology, rheumatoid arthritis and related diseases and solid organ transplant. We also
continue to analyze and may selectively pursue promising leads in other areas. In addition to discovering and developing new molecular entities, we look for ways to expand the value of existing products through new indications and formulations that
can provide additional benefits to patients.      Our drug discovery program includes many alliances and collaborative agreements.
These agreements bring new products into the pipeline and help us remain on the cutting edge of technology in the search for novel medicines. In drug development, we engage the services of physicians, hospitals, medical schools and other research
organizations worldwide to conduct clinical trials to establish the safety and effectiveness of new products.      Drug
development is time consuming, expensive and risky. In the development of human health products, industry practice and government regulations in the U.S., the EU and most foreign countries provide for the determination of effectiveness and safety of
new molecular entities through preclinical tests and controlled clinical evaluation. Before a new drug may be marketed in the U.S.
        
   8   

Table of Contents  

or the EU, recorded data on preclinical and clinical experiences are included in the product applications to the FDA or European Medicines Agency (EMA), respectively, for the required regulatory
approval.      On average, only about one in 10,000 chemical compounds discovered by pharmaceutical industry researchers proves to
be both medically effective and safe enough to become an approved medicine. The process from discovery to regulatory approval typically takes 12 years or longer. Drug candidates can fail at any stage of the process, and even late-stage product
candidates sometimes fail to receive regulatory approval.      Listed below are several late-stage investigational compounds that
we have in Phase III clinical trials for at least one potential indication. Whether or not any of these or our other investigational compounds ultimately becomes one of our marketed products depends on the results of clinical studies, the
competitive landscape of the potential product s market and the manufacturing processes necessary to produce the potential product on a commercial scale, among other factors. However, as noted above, there can be no assurance that we will seek
regulatory approval of any of these compounds or that, if such approval is sought, it will be obtained. There is also no assurance that a compound that is approved will be commercially successful. At this stage of development, we cannot determine
all intellectual property issues or all the patent protection that may, or may not, be available for these investigational compounds. The patent coverage highlighted below includes patent term extensions that have been granted but does not include
potential patent term extensions.       

Apixaban   
      
    Apixaban, an oral Factor Xa inhibitor, is in Phase III clinical trials for the prevention of venous thromboembolic disorders, the treatment of acute coronary
syndrome and stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation. In April 2007, we entered into a worldwide agreement with Pfizer, Inc. (Pfizer) for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of apixaban. We own a patent covering apixaban as composition of
matter that expires in 2023 in the U.S.    

Belatacept   
      
    Belatacept, a biological product, is a fusion protein with novel immunosuppressive activity targeted at prevention of solid organ transplant rejection. In
September 2009, the FDA accepted for filing and review our submission of a biologic license application for belatacept, and the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) goal for FDA action is May 1, 2010. In January 2010, the FDA announced that its
Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee plans to meet on March 1, 2010 to provide advice regarding this application. We own a patent covering belatacept as composition of matter that expires in 2022 in the U.S.    

Brivanib   
      
    Brivanib is an oral small molecule dual kinase inhibitor that blocks both the VEGF receptor and the FGF receptor. It is currently in Phase III trials as an
anti-cancer treatment with potential use in hepatocellular carcinoma and colorectal cancer. We own a patent covering brivanib as composition of matter that expires in 2023 in the U.S.    

Dapagliflozin   
      
    Dapagliflozin is an oral compound for the potential treatment of diabetes is currently in Phase III clinical trials. We have entered into an agreement with
AstraZeneca for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of dapagliflozin worldwide. We own a patent covering dapagliflozin as composition of matter that currently expires in October 2020 in the U.S.    

Ipilimumab   
      
    Ipilimumab, a biologic product, is a monoclonal antibody currently in Phase III development for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. It is also being studied
for lung cancer as well as adjuvant melanoma and hormone-refractory prostate cancer. It is in a novel class of agents intended to potentiate elements of the immunologic response. The compound was discovered by Medarex which is now our subsidiary. We
own a patent covering ipilimumab as composition of matter that currently expires in 2022 in the U.S.    

Necitumumab (11F8)   
      
    Necitumumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody being investigated as an anticancer treatment, which was discovered by ImClone and is part of the alliance
between the Company and Lilly. It has been studied outside the U.S. in lung cancer and colorectal cancer and is in Phase III trials in non small cell lung cancer. Lilly owns a patent covering 11F8 as composition of matter that expires in 2025 in the
U.S.    

XL-184   
      
    XL-184 is an oral anticancer compound, which was discovered by and licensed from Exelixis and is in Phase III clinical trials for medullary thyroid cancer.
XL-184 targets three enzymes: MET, which encourages tumor cell survival and movement, VEGF2, which helps tumors develop new blood vessels, and RET, which is also involved in cell growth and migration and is found in many thyroid cancers. Exelixis
owns a patent covering XL-184 as composition of matter that expires in 2024, which is exclusively licensed to us.        We recently terminated our development program for tanespimycin, which was in Phase III trials for the potential treatment of multiple myeloma.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

    Strategic Alliances and Collaborations       We enter into strategic alliances and collaborations with third parties, some of which give us rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products that are
owned by third parties and some of which give third parties the rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products that are owned by us. These alliances and collaborations can take many forms, including licensing
arrangements, codevelopment and comarketing agreements, copromotion arrangements and joint ventures. Such alliances and arrangements reduce the risk of incurring all research and development expenses for compounds that do not lead to
revenue-generating products; however, profitability on alliance products are generally lower, sometimes substantially so, than profitability on our own products that are not partnered because profits from alliance products are shared with our
alliance partners. While there can be no assurance that new alliances will be formed, we actively pursue such arrangements and view alliances as an important complement to our own discovery and development activities.      Each of our strategic alliances and arrangements with third parties who own the rights to manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical
products contain customary early termination provisions typically found in agreements of this kind and are generally based on the other party s material breach or bankruptcy (voluntary or involuntary) and product safety concerns. The amount of
notice required for early termination generally ranges from immediately upon notice to 180 days after receipt of notice. Termination immediately upon notice is generally available where the other party files a voluntary bankruptcy petition or if a
material safety issue arises with a product such that the medical risk/benefit is incompatible with the welfare of patients to continue to develop or commercialize this product. Termination upon 30 to 90 days notice is generally available where an
involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed (and has not been dismissed) or a material breach by the other party has occurred (and not been cured). A number of alliance agreements also permit the collaborator or us to terminate without cause,
typically exercisable with substantial advance written notice and often exercisable only after a specified period of time has elapsed after the collaboration agreement is signed. Our strategic alliances and arrangements typically do not otherwise
contain provisions that provide the other party the right to terminate the alliance on short notice.      In general, we do not
retain any rights to a product brought to an alliance by another party or to the other party s intellectual property after an alliance terminates. The loss of rights to one or more products that are marketed and sold by us pursuant to a
strategic alliance arrangement could be material to our results of operations and cash flows, and, in the case of PLAVIX* or ABILIFY*, could be material to our financial condition and liquidity. As is customary in the pharmaceutical industry, the
terms of our strategic alliances and arrangements generally are co-extensive with the exclusivity period and may vary on a country-by-country basis.      Our most significant current alliances and arrangements for both currently marketed products and investigational compounds are described below.        Current Marketed Products In-Licensed         sanofi  We have agreements with sanofi for the codevelopment and cocommercialization of AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* and PLAVIX*. AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* is copromoted in certain countries outside the U.S. under the
tradename APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* and comarketed in certain countries outside the U.S. by us under the tradename KARVEA*/KARVEZIDE*. PLAVIX* is copromoted in certain countries outside the U.S. under the tradename PLAVIX* and comarketed in certain
countries outside the U.S. by us under the tradename ISCOVER*.      The worldwide alliance operates under the framework of two
geographic territories, one covering certain European and Asian countries, referred to as Territory A, and one covering the U.S., Puerto Rico, Canada, Australia and certain Latin American countries, referred to as Territory B. Territory B is managed
by two separate sets of agreements: one for PLAVIX* in the U.S. and Puerto Rico and both products in Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia and Argentina and a separate set of agreements for AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in the U.S. and Puerto Rico only. Within
each territory, a territory partnership exists to supply finished product to each country within the territory and to manage or contract for certain central expenses such as marketing, research and development and royalties. Countries within
Territories A and B are structured so that our local affiliate and sanofi s local affiliate either comarket separate brands (i.e., each affiliate operates independently and competes with the other by selling the same product under different
trademarks), or copromote a single brand (i.e., the same product under the same trademark).      Within Territory A, the
comarketing countries include Germany, Spain, Italy (irbesartan only), Greece and China (clopidogrel bisulfate only). We sell ISCOVER* and KARVEA*/KARVEZIDE* and sanofi sells PLAVIX* and APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* in these countries, except China, where we
retain the right to, but do not currently comarket ISCOVER*. The Company and sanofi copromote PLAVIX* and APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* in France, the UK, Belgium, Netherlands, Switzerland and Portugal. In addition, the Company and sanofi copromote PLAVIX* in
Austria, Italy, Ireland, Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, Taiwan, Korea, Singapore and Hong Kong, and APROVEL*/COAPROVEL* in certain French export countries. Sanofi acts as the operating partner for Territory A and owns a 50.1% financial
controlling interest in this territory. Our ownership interest in this territory is 49.9%. We account for the investment in partnership entities in Territory A under the equity method and recognize our
        
   10   

Table of Contents  

share of the results in equity in net income of affiliates. Our share of net income from these partnership entities before taxes was $558 million in 2009, $632 million in 2008 and $526 million in
2007.      Within Territory B, the Company and sanofi copromote PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* in the U.S., Canada and Puerto Rico.
The other Territory B countries, Australia, Mexico, Brazil, Colombia (clopidogrel bisulfate only) and Argentina are comarketing countries. We act as the operating partner for Territory B and own a 50.1% majority controlling interest in this
territory. As such, we consolidate all partnership results in Territory B and recognize sanofi s share of the results as net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest, net of taxes, which was $1,159 million in 2009, $976 million in 2008
and $746 million in 2007.      We recognized net sales in Territory B and Territory A comarketing countries of $7.4 billion in
2009, $6.9 billion in 2008 and $6.0 billion in 2007.      The territory partnerships are governed by a series of committees with
enumerated functions, powers and responsibilities. Each territory has two senior committees which have final decision-making authority with respect to that territory as to the enumerated functions, powers and responsibilities within their
jurisdictions.      The agreements with sanofi expire on the later of (i) with respect to PLAVIX*, 2013 and, with respect to
AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, 2012 in the Americas and Australia and 2013 in Europe and Asia, and (ii) the expiration of all patents and other exclusivity rights relating to the products in the applicable territory.      The alliance arrangements may be terminated by sanofi or us, either in whole or in any affected country or Territory, depending on the
circumstances, in the event of (i) voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy or insolvency, which in the case of involuntary bankruptcy continues for 60 days or an order or decree approving same continues unstayed and in effect for 30 days;
(ii) a material breach of an obligation under a major alliance agreement that remains uncured for 30 days following notice of the breach except where commencement and diligent prosecution of cure has occurred within 30 days after notice;
(iii) deadlocks of one of the senior committees which render the continued commercialization of the product impossible in a given country or Territory; (iv) an increase in the combined cost of goods and royalty which exceeds a specified
percentage of the net selling price of the product; or (v) a good faith determination by the terminating party that commercialization of a product should be terminated for reasons of patient safety.      In the case of each of these termination rights, the agreements include provisions for the termination of the relevant alliance with respect
to the applicable product in the applicable country or territory or, in the case of a termination due to bankruptcy or insolvency or material breach, both products in the applicable territory. Each of these termination procedures is slightly
different; however, in all events, we could lose all rights to either or both products, as applicable, in the relevant country or territory even in the case of a bankruptcy or insolvency or material breach where we are not the defaulting party.
     For further discussion of our strategic alliance with sanofi, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances
and Collaborations.        Otsuka  We maintain a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka, to codevelop and
copromote ABILIFY* (the ABILIFY* Agreement), except in Japan, China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan and Egypt. We also have a collaboration agreement with Otsuka relating to certain oncology products
(the Oncology Agreement), which is more fully described under    Current Marketed Products Internally Discovered   below.      Under the terms of the ABILIFY* Agreement, as amended, we purchase the product from Otsuka and perform finish manufacturing for sale by us or Otsuka to third-party customers. The ABILIFY* Agreement
expires in April 2015 in the U.S and in June 2014 in all EU countries. In each other country where we have the exclusive right to sell ABILIFY*, the agreement expires on the later of April 20, 2015 or loss of exclusivity in any such country.
     In the U.S., Germany, France and Spain, the product is invoiced to third-party customers by us on behalf of Otsuka and we
recognize alliance revenue for our contractual share of third-party net sales. In Germany, France and Spain, our contractual share is 65% of net sales and we recognize all expenses related to the product. In the U.S., our contractual share was 65%
of net sales in 2009 and will be 58% in 2010, under the terms of our agreement with Otsuka to extend the U.S. portion of the ABILIFY* Agreement described more fully below. We recognized all expenses related to the product in 2009, although in 2010
Otsuka is responsible for 30% of commercialization expenses related to the product in the U.S. In the UK and Italy, where we are presently the exclusive distributor for the product, we recognize 100% of the net sales and related cost of products
sold and expenses. We also have an exclusive right to sell ABILIFY* in other countries in Europe, the Americas and a number of countries in Asia. In these countries we recognize 100% of the net sales and related cost of products sold.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

   In April 2009, the Company and Otsuka extended the U.S. portion of the ABILIFY* Agreement
until the expected loss of product exclusivity in April 2015. Under the terms of the extension, we paid Otsuka $400 million. Beginning on January 1, 2010, the share of U.S. net sales that we recognize for ABILIFY* changed from 65% to the
following:       
    During this
period, Otsuka will be responsible for 30% of the U.S. expenses related to the commercialization of ABILIFY* in the U.S.      Beginning January 1, 2013, and through the expected loss of U.S. exclusivity in April 2015, we will receive the following percentages of U.S. annual net sales:       
    During this
period, Otsuka will be responsible for 50% of all U.S. expenses related to the commercialization of ABILIFY* in the U.S.      The
U.S. portion of the ABILIFY* Agreement and the Oncology Agreement described below include a change-of-control provision if we are acquired. If the acquiring company does not have a competing product to ABILIFY*, then the new company will assume the
ABILIFY* Agreement (as amended) and the Oncology Agreement as it currently exists. If the acquiring company has a product that competes with ABILIFY*, Otsuka can elect to request the acquiring company to choose whether to divest ABILIFY* or the
competing product. In the scenario where ABILIFY* is divested, Otsuka would be obligated to acquire our rights under the ABILIFY* Agreement (as amended) at a price according to a predetermined schedule. The agreements also provide that in the event
of a generic competitor to ABILIFY* after January 1, 2010, we have the option of terminating the ABILIFY* April 2009 amendment (with the agreement as previously amended remaining in force). If we were to exercise such option then either
(i) we would receive a payment from Otsuka according to a pre-determined schedule and the Oncology Agreement would terminate at the same time or (ii) the Oncology Agreement would continue for a truncated period according to a
pre-determined schedule.      Early termination of the ABILIFY* Agreement is immediate upon notice in the case of
(i) voluntary bankruptcy, (ii) where minimum payments are not made to Otsuka, or (iii) first commercial sale has not occurred within three months after receipt of all necessary approvals, 30 days where a material breach has occurred
(and not been cured or commencement of cure has not occurred within 90 days after notice of such material breach) and 90 days in the case where an involuntary bankruptcy petition has been filed (and has not been dismissed). In addition, termination
is available to Otsuka upon 30 days notice in the event that we were to challenge Otsuka s patent rights or, on a market-by-market basis, in the event that we were to market a product in direct competition with ABILIFY*. Upon termination or
expiration of the ABILIFY* Agreement, we do not retain any rights to ABILIFY*.      We recognized net sales for ABILIFY* of $2.6
billion in 2009, $2.2 billion in 2008 and $1.7 billion in 2007. In addition to the $400 million extension payment, total upfront licensing and milestone payments made to Otsuka under the ABILIFY* Agreement through 2009 were $217 million.   
  For a discussion of our Oncology Agreement with Otsuka, see    Current Marketed Products Internally Discovered  
below. For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Otsuka, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.        Lilly  We have a commercialization agreement with Lilly through Lilly s subsidiary ImClone covering ERBITUX* in the U.S. as well as rights in Canada and Japan to the extent the product is
commercialized in such countries. Under the agreement, covering North America, Lilly receives a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of net sales in North America and the parties share profits evenly in Japan. The parties share royalties
payable to third parties pursuant to a formula set forth in the commercialization agreement. We purchase all of our commercial requirements for bulk ERBITUX* from Lilly at a price equal to Lilly s manufacturing cost plus 10%. The agreement
expires as to ERBITUX* in North America in September 2018.      Early termination is available based on material breach and is
effective 60 days after notice of the material breach (and such material breach has not been cured or commencement of cure has not occurred), or upon six months notice from us if there exists a
        
   12   

Table of Contents  

significant concern regarding a regulatory or patient safety issue that would seriously impact the long-term viability of the product. Upon termination or expiration of the alliance, we do not
retain any rights to ERBITUX*.      We share codevelopment and copromotion rights to ERBITUX* with Merck KGaA in Japan under an
agreement signed in October 2007, and expiring in 2032, with Lilly, Merck KGaA and Merck Japan. Lilly has the ability to terminate the agreement after 2018 if it determines that it is commercially unreasonable for it to continue. ERBITUX* received
marketing approval in Japan in July 2008 for the use of ERBITUX* in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer.      We recognized net sales for ERBITUX* of $683 million, $749 million and $692 million in, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively.      For further discussion of the our strategic alliance with Lilly, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.        Gilead  We have a joint venture with Gilead to develop and commercialize ATRIPLA* in the U.S., Canada and Europe. The Company and Gilead share responsibility for commercializing ATRIPLA* in the
U.S., Canada, throughout the EU and certain other European countries, and both provide funding and field-based sales representatives in support of promotional efforts for ATRIPLA*. Gilead recognizes 100% of ATRIPLA* revenues in the U.S., Canada and
most countries in Europe. Our revenue for the efavirenz component is determined by applying a percentage to ATRIPLA* revenue to approximate revenue for the SUSTIVA brand. We recognized efavirenz revenues of $869 million, $582 million and $335
million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, related to ATRIPLA* net sales.      The joint venture between the Company and Gilead
will continue until terminated by mutual agreement of the parties or otherwise as described below. In the event of a material breach by one party, the non-breaching party may terminate the joint venture only if both parties agree that it is both
desirable and practicable to withdraw the combination product from the markets where it is commercialized. At such time as one or more generic versions of a party s component product(s) appear on the market in the U.S., the other party will
have the right to terminate the joint venture and thereby acquire all of the rights to the combination product, both in the U.S. and Canada; however, for three years the terminated party will continue to receive a percentage of the net sales based
on the contribution of bulk component(s) to ATRIPLA*, and otherwise retains all rights to its own product(s).      For further
discussion of our strategic alliance with Gilead, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.         Current Marketed Products Internally Discovered         AstraZeneca  In January 2007, we entered
into a worldwide (except for Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with AstraZeneca for ONGLYZA (the Saxagliptin Agreement). The Company and AstraZeneca are also parties to a codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement for
dapagliflozin, which is described below under    Investigational Compounds Under Development Internally Discovered.        We manufacture ONGLYZA and, with certain limited exceptions, recognize net sales in most key markets. We received $250 million in upfront licensing and milestone payments from AstraZeneca for meeting
certain development and regulatory milestones on ONGLYZA and could receive up to an additional $100 million if all remaining development and regulatory milestones under the Saxagliptin Agreement are met and up to an additional $300 million if all
sales-based milestones are met. The majority of costs under the initial development plans through 2008 were paid by AstraZeneca and additional development costs are generally shared equally. We expense ONGLYZA development costs, net of
AstraZeneca s share, in research and development. The two companies jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy and share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis, excluding Japan.      For further discussion of our strategic alliance with AstraZeneca, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and
Collaborations.          
   13   

Table of Contents  

    Otsuka  Simultaneously with the extension of the ABILIFY* Agreement, in April 2009,
the Company and Otsuka entered into an Oncology Agreement for SPRYCEL and IXEMPRA, which includes the U.S., Japan and the EU markets (the Oncology Territory). Beginning in 2010 through 2020, the collaboration fees that we will pay to Otsuka annually
are the following percentages of the aggregate net sales of SPRYCEL and IXEMPRA in the Oncology Territory:       
    During these
periods, Otsuka will contribute (i) 20% of the first $175 million of certain commercial operational expenses relating to the oncology products in the Oncology Territory, and (ii) 1% of such commercial operational expenses relating to the
products in the Oncology Territory in excess of $175 million. Starting in 2011, Otsuka will have the right to copromote SPRYCEL with us in the U.S. and Japan and in 2012, in the top five EU markets.      The Oncology Agreement expires with respect to SPRYCEL and IXEMPRA in 2020 and includes the same change-of-control provision if we were
acquired as the ABILIFY* Agreement described above.      For a discussion of our ABILFY* Agreement with Otsuka, see
   Current Marketed Products In-Licensed   above. For further discussion of our strategic alliance with Otsuka, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.         Investigational Compounds Under Development In-Licensed         Exelixis  In December 2008, the Company and Exelixis, Inc. (Exelixis) entered into a global codevelopment and cocommercialization arrangement for XL-184 and a license for XL-281 with utility in RAS
and RAF mutant tumors under development by Exelixis. Under the terms of the arrangement, we paid Exelixis $195 million upon execution of the agreement and an additional $45 million in 2009. Exelixis will fund the first $100 million of development
for XL-184. If Exelixis elects to continue sharing development costs and elects to copromote in the U.S., Exelixis will fund 35% of future global development costs (excluding Japan) and share U.S. profits and losses equally; failing such elections,
Exelixis receives milestones and royalties on U.S. net sales. Royalty percentage rates are tiered based on net sales. We will fund 100% of development costs in Japan. In addition to royalties on non-U.S. net sales, we could pay up to $610 million if
all development and regulatory milestones are met on both compounds and up to an additional $300 million if all sales-based milestones are met on both compounds.      In addition, the Company and Exelixis have a history of collaborations to identify, develop and promote oncology targets. In January 2007, the Company and Exelixis entered into an oncology
collaboration and license agreement under which Exelixis is pursing the development of three small molecule INDs for codevelopment and copromotion. Under the terms of this agreement, we paid Exelixis $100 million of upfront licensing and milestone
payments to date. If Exelixis elects to fund development costs and copromote in the U.S., both parties will equally share development costs and profits. If Exelixis opts-out of the codevelopment and copromotion agreement, we will take over full
development and U.S. commercial rights, and, if successful, will pay Exelixis development and regulatory milestones up to $380 million and up to an additional $180 million of sales-based milestones, as well as royalties. Royalty percentage rates are
tiered based on net sales.      Since July 2001, we have held an equity interest in Exelixis, which at December 31, 2009
represented less than 1% of their outstanding shares.       ZymoGenetics  In January 2009, the Company and ZymoGenetics, Inc.
(ZymoGenetics) entered into a global codevelopment arrangement in the U.S. for PEG-Interferon lambda, a novel type 3 interferon for the treatment of hepatitis C. Under the terms of the arrangement, we paid ZymoGenetics $200 million of upfront
licensing and milestone payments in 2009. ZymoGenetics will fund the first $100 million of global development for PEG-Interferon lambda after which ZymoGenetics will fund 20% of development costs in the U.S. and Europe and we will fund 80% of the
development costs in the U.S. and Europe and 100% of the development costs in the rest of the world. If ZymoGenetics elects to continue sharing development and commercialization costs in the U.S., ZymoGenetics will share 40% of U.S. profits and
losses and has an option to copromote in the U.S. Failing such election to fund development costs in the U.S., ZymoGenetics will receive royalties on U.S. net sales. Royalty percentage rates are tiered based on net sales. We will pay ZymoGenetics
royalties on all non-U.S. net sales. In addition, we could pay up to $335 million if all hepatitis C development and regulatory milestones are met; up to $287 million if development and regulatory milestones for other potential indications are met;
and up to an additional $285 million if all sales-based milestones are met.         
   14   

Table of Contents  

   For further discussion of our strategic alliance with ZymoGenetics, see  Item 8.
Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.        Lilly  In January 2010, the Company and Lilly
restructured the ERBITUX commercialization agreement to provide for the co-development and co-commercialization of necitumumab (IMC-11F8), a fully human antibody currently in Phase III development for non-small cell lung cancer. As restructured,
both companies will share in the cost of developing and will share in the profits and losses upon commercializing necitumumab in the U.S., Canada and Japan. Lilly maintains exclusive rights to necitumumab in all other markets. We will fund
55% of development costs for studies that will be used only in the U.S. and will fund 27.5% for global studies. We will pay $250 million to Lilly as a milestone payment if first approval is granted in the U.S. In the U.S. and Canada, we will
recognize sales and receive 55% of the profits for necitumumab. Lilly will provide 50% of the selling effort. In Japan, the Company and Lilly will share commercial costs and profits evenly. The agreement as it relates to necitumumab continues beyond
patent expiration until both parties agree to terminate. Lilly will manufacture the bulk requirements and we will finish the product.       Alder  In November 2009, the Company and Alder Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. (Alder) entered into a global agreement for the development and commercialization of ALD518, a novel biologic that has completed Phase IIa development for the
treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Under the terms of the collaboration agreement, Alder granted us worldwide exclusive rights to develop and commercialize ALD518 for all potential indications except cancer, for which Alder retains rights and has
granted us an option to codevelop and have exclusive rights to cocommercialize outside the United States. We paid Alder an $85 million upfront licensing payment in 2009, all of which was expensed as research and development. In addition, we could
pay up to $764 million of development-based and regulatory-based milestone payments, potential sales-based milestones which, under certain circumstances, may exceed $200 million, and royalties on net sales. Royalty percentage rates are tiered based
on net sales. If we choose the option to pursue cancer indications then we could pay up to an additional $185 million of development-based and regulatory-based milestone payments, the aforementioned sales-based milestones and royalties on net sales.
Royalty percentage rates are tiered based on net sales.        Investigational Compounds Under Development Internally Discovered   
      AstraZeneca  As mentioned above, we have a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement with AstraZeneca
for dapagliflozin (the SGLT2 Agreement). Dapagliflozin is being studied for the potential treatment of diabetes and was discovered by us.      Under the SGLT2 Agreement, we have received $50 million of upfront licensing payments from AstraZeneca and could receive up to $350 million more if all development and regulatory milestones are met for
dapagliflozin and up to an additional $390 million if all sales-based milestones are met. The majority of costs under the initial plans through 2009 were paid by AstraZeneca and any additional development costs will generally be shared equally
except for Japan, where AstraZeneca bears substantially all of the development costs prior to approval of the first indication. We expense dapagliflozin development costs, net of our alliance partner s share, in research and development. Under
the SGLT2 Agreement, like with the Saxagliptin Agreement, the two companies will jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy and share commercialization expenses and profits and losses for dapagliflozin equally on a global basis, and we will
manufacture dapagliflozin and, with certain limited exceptions, recognize net sales in most key markets. With respect to Japan, AstraZeneca has operational and cost responsibility for all development and regulatory activities on behalf of the
collaboration, though the two companies will jointly market the product in Japan, sharing all commercialization expenses and activities and splitting profits and losses equally like in the rest of the world. We will also manufacture dapagliflozin
and recognize net sales in Japan, like in the rest of the world. Dapagliflozin is currently being studied in Phase II clinical trials in Japan.      For further discussion of our strategic alliance with AstraZeneca, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.        Pfizer  The Company and Pfizer are parties to a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement for apixaban, an
anticoagulant discovered by us and being studied for the prevention and treatment of a broad range of venous and arterial thrombotic conditions. Pfizer funds 60% of all development costs since January 2007 and we fund 40%. We have received $464
million in upfront licensing and milestone payments from Pfizer to date and could receive up to an additional $630 million from Pfizer if all development and regulatory milestones are met. The companies jointly develop the clinical and marketing
strategy of apixaban, and will share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis.      For further
discussion of our strategic alliance with Pfizer, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.        Otsuka  In January 2007, we granted Otsuka exclusive rights in Japan to develop and commercialize ONGLYZA. We are entitled to receive milestone payments based on certain regulatory events, as well
as sales-based payments following regulatory approval of
        
   15   

Table of Contents  

ONGLYZA in Japan. We retained rights to copromote ONGLYZA with Otsuka in Japan. Otsuka is responsible for all development costs in Japan.        Royalty and Other Licensing Arrangements        In addition to the strategic alliances described above, we have other in-licensing and out-licensing arrangements. With respect to in-licenses, we have agreements with Novartis for REYATAZ and with HZI
for IXEMPRA, among others. Based on our current expectations with respect to the expiration of market exclusivity in our significant markets, the licensing arrangements with Novartis for REYATAZ are expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., the EU and
Japan; and arrangements with HZI for IXEMPRA are expected to expire in 2017 in the U.S., and on the 10th anniversary of the first commercial sale in the EU and Japan. For further discussion of market exclusivity protection, including a chart showing
net sales of key products together with the year in which basic exclusivity loss occurred or is expected to occur in the U.S., the EU, Japan and Canada, see   Products  above.      As a result of our acquisition of Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) in August 2009, we own certain compounds out-licensed to third parties for development and commercialization. We expect to
receive milestone payments as these compounds move through the regulatory process and royalties based on product sales, if and when the products are commercialized.       Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity       We own or license a number
of patents in the U.S. and foreign countries primarily covering our products. We have also developed many brand names and trademarks for our products. We consider the overall protection of our patents, trademarks, licenses and other intellectual
property rights to be of material value and act to protect these rights from infringement.      In the pharmaceutical industry,
the majority of an innovative product s commercial value is usually realized during the period in which the product has market exclusivity. A product s market exclusivity is generally determined by two forms of intellectual property:
patent rights held by the innovator company and any regulatory forms of exclusivity to which the innovative drug is entitled.      Patents are a key determinant of market exclusivity for most branded pharmaceuticals. Patents provide the innovator with the right to exclude others from practicing an invention related to the medicine. Patents may cover, among other
things, the active ingredient(s), various uses of a drug product, pharmaceutical formulations, drug delivery mechanisms and processes for (or intermediates useful in) the manufacture of products. Protection for individual products extends for
varying periods in accordance with the expiration dates of patents in the various countries. The protection afforded, which may also vary from country to country, depends upon the type of patent, its scope of coverage and the availability of
meaningful legal remedies in the country.      Market exclusivity is also sometimes influenced by regulatory intellectual property
rights. Many developed countries provide certain non-patent incentives for the development of medicines. For example, in the U.S., the EU, Japan, Canada and certain other markets, regulatory intellectual property rights are offered as incentives for
research on medicines for rare diseases, or orphan drugs, and on medicines useful in treating pediatric patients. These incentives can extend the market exclusivity period on a product beyond the patent term.      The U.S., EU, Japan and Canada also each provide for a minimum period of time after the approval of a new drug during which the regulatory
agency may not rely upon the innovator s data to approve a competitor s generic copy, or data protection. In certain markets where patent protection and other forms of market exclusivity may have expired, data protection can be of
particular importance. However, most regulatory forms of exclusivity do not prevent a competitor from gaining regulatory approval prior to the expiration of regulatory data exclusivity on the basis of the competitor s own safety and efficacy
data on its drug, even when that drug is identical to that marketed by the innovator.      Specific aspects of the law governing
market exclusivity and data protection for pharmaceuticals vary from country to country. The following summarizes key exclusivity rules in markets representing significant sales:       United States       In the U.S., most of our key products are protected by
patents with varying terms depending on the type of patent and the filing date. A significant portion of a product s patent life, however, is lost during the time it takes an innovative company to develop and obtain regulatory approval of a new
drug. As compensation at least in part for the lost patent term, the innovator may, depending on a number of factors, extend the expiration date of one patent up to a maximum term of five years, provided that the extension cannot cause the patent to
be in effect for more than 14 years from the date of drug approval.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

   A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical in the U.S. must submit a complete
set of safety and efficacy data to the FDA. If the innovative pharmaceutical is a chemical, the company files a New Drug Application (NDA). If the medicine is a biological product, a BLA is filed. The type of application filed affects regulatory
exclusivity rights.      A competitor seeking to launch a generic substitute of a chemical innovative drug in the U.S. must file
an abbreviated NDA (aNDA) with the FDA. In the aNDA, the generic manufacturer needs to demonstrate only  bioequivalence  between the generic substitute and the approved NDA drug. The aNDA relies upon the safety and efficacy data previously
filed by the innovator in its NDA. Currently, under U.S. law, there is no abbreviated path for regulatory approval of generic versions of biological products. However, various bills and draft legislation to change this have been introduced in
Congress and the FDA is taking steps toward allowing generic versions of certain biologics.      An innovator company is required
to list certain of its patents covering the medicine with the FDA in what is commonly known as the Orange Book. Absent a successful patent challenge, the FDA cannot approve an aNDA until after the innovator s listed patents expire. However,
after the innovator has marketed its product for four years, a generic manufacturer may file an aNDA and allege that one or more of the patents listed in the Orange Book under an innovator s NDA is either invalid or not infringed. This
allegation is commonly known as a Paragraph IV certification. The innovator then must decide whether to file a patent infringement suit against the generic manufacturer. From time to time, aNDAs, including Paragraph IV certifications, are filed with
respect to certain of our products. We evaluate these aNDAs on a case-by-case basis and, where warranted, file suit against the generic manufacturer to protect our patent rights.      In addition to benefiting from patent protection, certain innovative pharmaceutical products can receive periods of regulatory exclusivity. A NDA that is designated as an orphan drug
can receive seven years of exclusivity for the orphan indication. During this time period, neither NDAs nor aNDAs for the same drug product can be approved for the same orphan use. A company may also earn six months of additional exclusivity for a
drug where specific clinical trials are conducted at the written request of the FDA to study the use of the medicine to treat pediatric patients, and submission to the FDA is made prior to the loss of basic exclusivity.      Medicines approved under a NDA can also receive several types of regulatory data protection. An innovative chemical pharmaceutical is
entitled to five years of regulatory data protection in the U.S., during which competitors cannot file with the FDA for approval of generic substitutes. If an innovator s patent is challenged, as described above, a generic manufacturer may file
its aNDA after the fourth year of the five-year data protection period. A pharmaceutical drug product that contains an active ingredient that has been previously approved in a NDA, but is approved in a new formulation or for a new indication on the
basis of new clinical trials, receives three years of data protection for that formulation or indication.      In the U.S., the
increased likelihood of generic challenges to innovators  intellectual property has increased the risk of loss of innovators  market exclusivity. First, generic companies have increasingly sought to challenge innovators  basic patents
covering major pharmaceutical products. Second, statutory and regulatory provisions in the U.S. limit the ability of an innovator company to prevent generic drugs from being approved and launched while patent litigation is ongoing. Third, Congress
and the FDA are actively considering ways to develop a regulatory mechanism that allows for regulatory approval of biologic drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required
for a full BLA. As a result of all of these developments, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for a particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of
regulatory exclusivity.       European Union       Patents on pharmaceutical products are generally enforceable in the EU and, as in the U.S., may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process. Such extensions are
granted on a country-by-country basis.      The primary route we use to obtain marketing authorization of pharmaceutical products
in the EU is through the  centralized procedure.  This procedure is compulsory for certain pharmaceutical products, in particular those using biotechnological processes, and is also available for certain new chemical compounds and
products. A company seeking to market an innovative pharmaceutical product through the centralized procedure must file a complete set of safety data and efficacy data as part of a Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) with the EMA. After the EMA
evaluates the MAA, it provides a recommendation to the European Commission (EC) and the EC then approves or denies the MAA. It is also possible for new chemical products to obtain marketing authorization in the EU through a  mutual recognition
procedure,  in which an application is made to a single member state, and if the member state approves the pharmaceutical product under a national procedure, then the applicant may submit that approval to the mutual recognition procedure of
some or all other member states.      After obtaining marketing authorization approval, a company must obtain pricing and
reimbursement for the pharmaceutical product, which is typically subject to member state law. In certain EU countries, this process can take place simultaneously while
        
   17   

Table of Contents  

the product is marketed but in other EU countries, this process must be completed before the company can market the new product. The pricing and reimbursement procedure can take months and
sometimes years to complete.      Throughout the EU, all products for which marketing authorizations have been filed after
October/November 2005 are subject to an  8+2+1  regime. Eight years after the innovator has received its first community authorization for a medicinal product, a generic company may file a marketing authorization application for that
product with the health authorities. If the marketing authorization application is approved, the generic company may not commercialize the product until after either 10 or 11 years have elapsed from the initial marketing authorization granted to the
innovator. The possible extension to 11 years is available if the innovator, during the first eight years of the marketing authorization, obtains an additional indication that is of significant clinical benefit in comparison with existing
treatments. For products that were filed prior to October/November 2005, there is a 10-year period of data protection under the centralized procedures and a period of either six or 10 years under the mutual recognition procedure (depending on the
member state).      In contrast to the U.S., patents in the EU are not listed with regulatory authorities. Generic versions of
pharmaceutical products can be approved after data protection expires, regardless of whether the innovator holds patents covering its drug. Thus, it is possible that an innovator may be seeking to enforce its patents against a generic competitor
that is already marketing its product. Also, the European patent system has an opposition procedure in which generic manufacturers may challenge the validity of patents covering innovator products within nine months of grant.      In general, EU law treats chemically-synthesized drugs and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and
data protection. In addition to the relevant legislation and annexes related to biologic medicinal products, the EMA has issued guidelines that outline the additional information to be provided for biosimilar products, also known as generic
biologics, in order to review an application for marketing approval.       Japan       In Japan, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded eight years of data exclusivity for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical products are
enforceable. Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data exclusivity and patent expirations. As in the U.S., patents in Japan may be extended to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process.      In general, Japanese law treats chemically-synthesized and biologically-derived drugs the same with respect to intellectual property and
market exclusivity.       Canada       In Canada as of 2006, medicines of new chemical entities are generally afforded eight years of data exclusivity for approved indications and dosage. Patents on pharmaceutical products are enforceable.
Generic copies can receive regulatory approval after data exclusivity and patent expirations. Currently, unlike the U.S., Canada has no patent term restoration to compensate for the patent term lost during the regulatory review process.   
  In Canada, biologics are generally treated the same as chemically-synthesized products with respect to patent rights and regulatory
exclusivity. Health Canada has issued draft guidance that outlines the additional information to be provided for Subsequent Entry Biologics, also known as biosimilar products or generic biologics, in order to review an application for marketing
approval.       Rest of World       In countries outside of the U.S., the EU, Japan and Canada, there is a wide variety of legal systems with respect to intellectual property and market exclusivity of pharmaceuticals. Most other developed
countries utilize systems similar to either the U.S. or the EU (e.g., Switzerland). Among developing countries, some have adopted patent laws and/or regulatory exclusivity laws, while others have not. Some developing countries have formally adopted
laws in order to comply with World Trade Organization (WTO) commitments, but have not taken steps to implement these laws in a meaningful way. Enforcement of WTO actions is a long process between governments, and there is no assurance of the
outcome. Thus, in assessing the likely future market exclusivity of our innovative drugs in developing countries, we take into account not only formal legal rights but political and other factors as well.       Marketing, Distribution and Customers       We promote our products in medical journals and directly to healthcare providers such as doctors, nurse practitioners, physician assistants, pharmacists, technologists, hospitals, Pharmacy Benefit
Managers (PBMs), Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) and government agencies. We also market directly to consumers in the U.S. through direct-to-consumer print, radio and television
        
   18   

Table of Contents  

advertising. In addition, we sponsor general advertising to educate the public about our innovative medical research. For a discussion of the regulation of promotion and marketing of
pharmaceuticals, see   Government Regulation and Price Constraints  below.      Through our sales and marketing
organizations, we explain the approved uses and advantages of our products to medical professionals. We work to gain access to health authorities, PBM and MCO formularies (lists of recommended or approved medicines and other products), including
Medicare Part D plans and reimbursement lists by demonstrating the qualities and treatment benefits of our products. Marketing of prescription pharmaceuticals is limited to the approved uses of the particular product, but we continue to develop
information about our products and provides such information in response to unsolicited inquiries from doctors and other medical professionals.      Our operations include several marketing and sales organizations. Each organization markets a distinct group of products supported by a sales force and is typically based on particular therapeutic areas
or physician groups. These sales forces often focus on selling new products when they are introduced, and promotion to physicians is increasingly targeted at specialists and key primary care physicians.      Our products are sold principally to wholesalers, and to a lesser extent, directly to distributors, retailers, hospitals, clinics,
government agencies and pharmacies. Gross sales to the three largest pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. as a percentage of our total gross sales were as follows:       
    Our U.S.
business has Inventory Management Agreements (IMAs) with substantially all of our direct wholesaler and distributor customers that allows us to monitor U.S. wholesaler inventory levels and requires those wholesalers to maintain inventory levels that
are no more than one month of their demand. The IMAs have one-year terms, through December 31, 2010, subject to certain termination provisions.       Competition       The markets in which we compete are generally broad based and highly competitive. We compete with
other worldwide research-based drug companies, many smaller research companies with more limited therapeutic focus and generic drug manufacturers. Important competitive factors include product efficacy, safety and ease of use, price and demonstrated
cost-effectiveness, marketing effectiveness, product labeling, service and research and development of new products and processes. Sales of our products can be impacted by new studies that indicate a competitor s product has greater safety
and/or efficacy profile for treating a disease or particular form of disease than one of our products. Our sales also can be impacted by additional labeling requirements relating to safety or convenience that may be imposed on products by the FDA or
by similar regulatory agencies in different countries. If competitors introduce new products and processes with therapeutic or cost advantages, our products can be subject to progressive price reductions or decreased volume of sales, or both.
      Generic Competition       One of the biggest competitive challenges that we face is from generic pharmaceutical manufacturers. In the U.S. and the EU, the regulatory approval process exempts generics from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate
their safety and efficacy, allowing generic manufacturers to rely on the safety and efficacy of the innovator product. As a result, generic pharmaceutical manufacturers typically invest far less in research and development than research-based
pharmaceutical companies and therefore can price their products significantly lower than branded products. Accordingly, when a branded product loses its market exclusivity, it normally faces intense price competition from generic forms of the
product. Upon the expiration or loss of market exclusivity on a product, we can lose the major portion of sales of that product in a very short period of time.     The rate of sales decline of a product after the expiration of exclusivity varies by country. In general, the decline in the U.S. market is more rapid than in most other developed countries, though we
have recently observed rapid declines in a number of EU countries as well. Also, the declines in developed countries tend to be more rapid than in developing countries. The rate of sales decline after the expiration of exclusivity has also
historically been influenced by product characteristics. For example, drugs that are used in a large patient population (e.g., those prescribed by key primary care physicians) tend to experience more rapid declines than drugs in specialized areas of
medicine (e.g., oncology). Drugs that are more complex to manufacture (e.g., sterile injectable products) usually experience a slower decline than those that are simpler to manufacture.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

   In certain countries outside the U.S., patent protection is weak or nonexistent and we must
compete with generic versions shortly after we launch our innovative products. In addition, generic pharmaceutical companies may introduce a generic product before exclusivity has expired, and before the resolution of any related patent litigation.
For more information about market exclusivity, see   Intellectual Property and Product Exclusivity  above.      We
believe our long-term competitive position depends upon our success in discovering and developing innovative, cost-effective products that serve unmet medical needs, together with our ability to manufacture products efficiently and to market them
effectively in a highly competitive environment.       Managed Care Organizations       The growth of MCOs in the U.S. is also a major factor in the healthcare marketplace. Over half of the U.S. population now participates in some version of managed care. MCOs can
include medical insurance companies, medical plan administrators, health-maintenance organizations, Medicare Part D formularies, alliances of hospitals and physicians and other physician organizations. Those organizations have been consolidating
into fewer, larger entities, thus enhancing their purchasing strength and importance to us.      To successfully compete for
business with MCOs, we must often demonstrate that our products offer not only medical benefits but also cost advantages as compared with other forms of care. Most new products that we introduce compete with other products already on the market or
products that are later developed by competitors. As noted above, generic drugs are exempt from costly and time-consuming clinical trials to demonstrate their safety and efficacy and, as such, often have lower costs than brand-name drugs. MCOs that
focus primarily on the immediate cost of drugs often favor generics for this reason. Many governments also encourage the use of generics as alternatives to brand-name drugs in their healthcare programs. Laws in the U.S. generally allow, and in many
cases require, pharmacists to substitute generic drugs that have been rated under government procedures to be essentially equivalent to a brand-name drug. The substitution must be made unless the prescribing physician expressly forbids it.
     Exclusion of a product from a formulary can lead to its sharply reduced usage in the MCO patient population. Consequently,
pharmaceutical companies compete aggressively to have their products included. Where possible, companies compete for inclusion based upon unique features of their products, such as greater efficacy, better patient ease of use or fewer side effects.
A lower overall cost of therapy is also an important factor. Products that demonstrate fewer therapeutic advantages must compete for inclusion based primarily on price. We have been generally, although not universally, successful in having our major
products included on MCO formularies.       Government Regulation and Price Constraints       The pharmaceutical industry is subject to extensive global regulation by regional, country, state and local agencies. The Federal Food, Drug,
and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act), other Federal statutes and regulations, various state statutes and regulations, and laws and regulations of foreign governments govern to varying degrees the testing, approval, production, labeling, distribution,
post-market surveillance, advertising, dissemination of information and promotion of our products. The lengthy process of laboratory and clinical testing, data analysis, manufacturing, development, and regulatory review necessary for required
governmental approvals is extremely costly and can significantly delay product introductions in a given market. Promotion, marketing, manufacturing and distribution of pharmaceutical products are extensively regulated in all major world markets. In
addition, our operations are subject to complex Federal, state, local, and foreign environmental and occupational safety laws and regulations. We anticipate that the laws and regulations affecting the manufacture and sale of current products and the
introduction of new products will continue to require substantial scientific and technical effort, time and expense as well as significant capital investments.      Of particular importance is the FDA in the U.S. It has jurisdiction over virtually all of our businesses and imposes requirements covering the testing, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling,
marketing, advertising and post-marketing surveillance of our products. In many cases, FDA requirements have increased the amount of time and money necessary to develop new products and bring them to market in the U.S.      The FDA mandates that drugs be manufactured, packaged and labeled in conformity with current Good Manufacturing Practices (cGMP) established
by the FDA. In complying with cGMP regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money and effort in production, recordkeeping and quality control to ensure that products meet applicable specifications and other requirements to ensure
product safety and efficacy. The FDA periodically inspects our drug manufacturing facilities to ensure compliance with applicable cGMP requirements. Failure to comply with the statutory and regulatory requirements subjects us to possible legal or
regulatory action, such as suspension of manufacturing, seizure of product or voluntary recall of a product. Adverse experiences with the use of products must be reported to the FDA and could result in the imposition of market restrictions through
labeling changes or product removal. Product approvals may be withdrawn if compliance with regulatory requirements is not maintained or if problems concerning safety or efficacy occur following approval.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

   The Federal government has extensive enforcement powers over the activities of
pharmaceutical manufacturers, including authority to withdraw product approvals, commence actions to seize and prohibit the sale of unapproved or non-complying products, to halt manufacturing operations that are not in compliance with cGMPs, and to
impose or seek injunctions, voluntary recalls, civil monetary and criminal penalties. Such a restriction or prohibition on sales or withdrawal of approval of products marketed by us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition
and results of operations and cash flows.      Marketing authorization for our products is subject to revocation by the applicable
governmental agencies. In addition, modifications or enhancements of approved products or changes in manufacturing locations are in many circumstances subject to additional FDA approvals, which may or may not be received and which may be subject to
a lengthy application process.      The distribution of pharmaceutical products is subject to the Prescription Drug Marketing Act
(PDMA) as part of the FDC Act, which regulates such activities at both the Federal and state level. Under the PDMA and its implementing regulations, states are permitted to require registration of manufacturers and distributors who provide
pharmaceuticals even if such manufacturers or distributors have no place of business within the state. States are also permitted to adopt regulations limiting the distribution of product samples to licensed practitioners. The PDMA also imposes
extensive licensing, personnel recordkeeping, packaging, quantity, labeling, product handling and facility storage and security requirements intended to prevent the sale of pharmaceutical product samples or other product diversions. For discussion
of recent settlement of certain investigations of drug pricing and sales and marketing activities, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 24. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.       The FDA Amendments Act of 2007 imposed additional obligations on pharmaceutical companies and delegated more enforcement authority to the
FDA in the area of drug safety. Key elements of this legislation give the FDA authority to (1) require that companies conduct post-marketing safety studies of drugs, (2) impose certain drug labeling changes relating to safety,
(3) mandate risk mitigation measures such as the education of healthcare providers and the restricted distribution of medicines, (4) require companies to publicly disclose data from clinical trials and (5) pre-review television
advertisements.      The marketing practices of all U.S. pharmaceutical manufacturers are subject to Federal and state healthcare
laws that are used to protect the integrity of government healthcare programs. The Office of Inspector General of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (OIG) oversees compliance with applicable Federal laws, in connection with the payment
for products by government funded programs (primarily Medicaid and Medicare). These laws include the Federal anti-kickback statute, which criminalizes the offering of something of value to induce the recommendation, order or purchase of products or
services reimbursed under a government healthcare program. The OIG has issued a series of Guidances to segments of the healthcare industry, including the 2003 Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers (the OIG Guidance), which
includes a recommendation that pharmaceutical manufacturers, at a minimum, adhere to the PhRMA Code, a voluntary industry code of marketing practices. We subscribe to the PhRMA Code, and have implemented a compliance program to address the
requirements set forth in the OIG Guidance and our compliance with the healthcare laws. Failure to comply with these healthcare laws could subject us to administrative and legal proceedings, including actions by Federal and state government
agencies. Such actions could result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and injunctive remedies, the impact of which could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of
operations and cash flows.      We are also subject to the jurisdiction of various other Federal and state regulatory and
enforcement departments and agencies, such as the Federal Trade Commission, the Department of Justice and the Department of Health and Human Services in the U.S. We are also licensed by the U.S. Drug Enforcement Agency to procure and produce
controlled substances. We are, therefore, subject to possible administrative and legal proceedings and actions by these organizations. Such actions may result in the imposition of civil and criminal sanctions, which may include fines, penalties and
injunctive or administrative remedies.      Our activities outside the U.S. are also subject to regulatory requirements governing
the testing, approval, safety, effectiveness, manufacturing, labeling and marketing of our products. These regulatory requirements vary from country to country. Whether or not FDA approval or approval of the EMA has been obtained for a product,
approval of the product by comparable regulatory authorities of countries outside of the U.S. or the EU, as the case may be, must be obtained prior to marketing the product in those countries. The approval process may be more or less rigorous from
country to country, and the time required for approval may be longer or shorter than that required in the U.S. Approval in one country does not assure that a product will be approved in another country.      In many markets outside the U.S., we operate in an environment of government-mandated, cost-containment programs. Several governments have
placed restrictions on physician prescription levels and patient reimbursements, emphasized greater use of generic drugs and/or enacted across-the-board price cuts as methods of cost control. In most EU countries, for example, the government
regulates pricing of a new product at launch often through direct price controls, international price comparisons, controlling profits and/or reference pricing. In other markets, such as the UK and Germany, the government does not set pricing
restrictions at launch, but pricing freedom is subsequently limited, such as by the operation of a profit and price control plan in the UK and by the operation of a reference price system in Germany. Companies also face significant delays in
market access for new products, mainly in France, Spain, Italy and Belgium, and more than two years can elapse before new medicines become available
        
   21   

Table of Contents  

on some national markets. Additionally, member states of the EU have regularly imposed new or additional cost containment measures for pharmaceuticals. In recent years, Italy, for example, has
imposed mandatory price decreases. The existence of price differentials within the EU due to the different national pricing and reimbursement laws leads to significant parallel trade flows.      In recent years, Congress and some state legislatures have considered a number of proposals and have enacted laws that could effect major changes in the healthcare system, either
nationally or at the state level. Driven in part by budget concerns, Medicaid access and reimbursement restrictions have been implemented in some states and proposed in many others. Similar cost containment issues exist in many foreign countries
where we do business.      Federal and state governments also have pursued direct methods to reduce the cost of drugs for which
they pay. We participate in state government-managed Medicaid programs, as well as certain other qualifying Federal and state government programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating state and local government entities. We
also participate in prime vendor programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs. These entities receive minimum discounts based off a defined
 non-federal average manufacturer price  for purchases. Other prime vendor programs in which we participate provide discounts for outpatient medicines purchased by certain Public Health Service entities and other hospitals meeting certain
criteria.      For further discussion of these rebates and programs, see  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Net Sales  and   Critical Accounting Policies.        Sources and
Availability of Raw Materials       In general, we purchase our raw materials and supplies required for the production of our
products in the open market. For some products, we purchase our raw materials and supplies from one source (the only source available to us) or a single source (the only approved source among many available to us), thereby requiring us to obtain
such raw materials and supplies from that particular source. We attempt, if possible, to mitigate our raw material supply risks, through inventory management and alternative sourcing strategies. For further discussion of sourcing, see
  Manufacturing and Quality Assurance  below and discussions of particular products.       Manufacturing and Quality Assurance
      To meet all expected product demand, we operate and manage our manufacturing network, including our third-party contract
manufacturers, and the inventory related thereto, in a manner that permits us to improve efficiency while maintaining flexibility to reallocate manufacturing capacity. Pharmaceutical production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely
from product to product. Given that shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a lengthy process requiring significant capital and out-of-pocket expenditures as well as regulatory approvals, we maintain and operate our flexible manufacturing
network, consisting of internal and external resources, that minimizes unnecessary product transfers and inefficient uses of manufacturing capacity. For further discussion of the regulatory impact on our manufacturing, see   Government
Regulation and Price Constraints  above.      Pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities require significant ongoing capital
investment for both maintenance and compliance with increasing regulatory requirements. In addition, as our product line changes over the next several years, we expect to modify our existing manufacturing network to meet complex processing standards
that may be required for newly introduced products, including biologics. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. In February 2007, we purchased an 89-acre site to locate our large
scale multi-product bulk biologics manufacturing facility in Devens, Massachusetts. Construction of the Devens, Massachusetts facility began in early 2007 and was substantially completed in 2009. We expect to submit the site for regulatory approval
in 2011, with commercial production of biologic compounds anticipated to begin later that year.      We rely on third parties to
manufacture or supply us with active ingredients necessary for us to manufacture certain products, including PLAVIX*, BARACLUDE, AVALIDE*, REYATAZ, ABILIFY*, ERBITUX*, the SUSTIVA Franchise, ORENCIA and ONGLYZA. To maintain a stable supply of these
products, we take a variety of actions including inventory management and maintenance of additional quantities of materials, when possible, designed to provide for a reasonable level of these ingredients to be held by the third-party supplier, us or
both, so that our manufacturing operations are not interrupted. As an additional protection, in some cases, we take steps to maintain an approved back-up source where available. For example, we will rely on the combined capacity of our Devens,
Massachusetts, Syracuse, New York, and Manati, Puerto Rico facilities, and the capacity available at our third-party contract manufacturers to manufacture ORENCIA and the commercial quantities of our other investigational biologics compounds in
late-stage development should those compounds receive regulatory approval.      If we or any third-party manufacturer that we rely
on for existing or future products is unable to maintain a stable supply of products, operate at sufficient capacity to meet our order requirements, comply with government regulations for manufacturing pharmaceuticals or meet the heightened
processing requirements for biologics, our business performance and prospects could be
        
   22   

Table of Contents  

negatively impacted. Additionally, if we or any of our third-party suppliers were to experience extended plant shutdowns or substantial unplanned increases in demand or suspension of
manufacturing for regulatory reasons, we could experience an interruption in supply of certain products or product shortages until production could be resumed or expanded.      In connection with divestitures, licensing arrangements or distribution agreements of certain of our products, or in certain other circumstances, we have entered into agreements
under which we have agreed to supply such products to third parties. In addition to liabilities that could arise from our failure to supply such products under the agreements, these arrangements could require us to invest in facilities for the
production of non-strategic products, result in additional regulatory filings and obligations or cause an interruption in the manufacturing of our own products.      Our success depends in great measure upon customer confidence in the quality of our products and in the integrity of the data that support their safety and effectiveness. Product quality arises from a
total commitment to quality in all parts of our operations, including research and development, purchasing, facilities planning, manufacturing, and distribution. We maintain quality-assurance procedures relating to the quality and integrity of
technical information and production processes.      Control of production processes involves detailed specifications for
ingredients, equipment and facilities, manufacturing methods, processes, packaging materials and labeling. We perform tests at various stages of production processes and on the final product to ensure that the product meets regulatory requirements
and our standards. These tests may involve chemical and physical chemical analyses, microbiological testing, or a combination of these along with other analyses. Quality control is provided by business unit/site quality assurance groups that monitor
existing manufacturing procedures and systems used by us, our subsidiaries and third-party suppliers.       Environmental Regulation
      Our facilities and operations are subject to extensive U.S. and foreign laws and regulations relating to environmental
protection and human health and safety, including those governing discharges of pollutants into the air and water; the use, management and disposal of hazardous, radioactive and biological materials and wastes; and the cleanup of contamination.
Pollution controls and permits are required for many of our operations, and these permits are subject to modification, renewal or revocation by the issuing authorities.      Our environment, health and safety group monitors our operations around the world, providing us with an overview of regulatory requirements and overseeing the implementation of our standards for
compliance. We also incur operating and capital costs for such matters on an ongoing basis. We expended approximately $34 million in 2009 and $41 million in 2008 and 2007 on capital projects undertaken specifically to meet environmental
requirements. Although we believe that we are in substantial compliance with applicable environmental, health and safety requirements and the permits required for our operations, we nevertheless could incur additional costs, including civil or
criminal fines or penalties, clean-up costs, or third-party claims for property damage or personal injury, for violations or liabilities under these laws.      Many of our current and former facilities have been in operation for many years, and over time, we and other operators of those facilities have generated, used, stored or disposed of substances or wastes
that are considered hazardous under Federal, state and/or foreign environmental laws, including the U.S. Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act (CERCLA). As a result, the soil and groundwater at or under certain of
these facilities is or may be contaminated, and we may be required to make significant expenditures to investigate, control and remediate such contamination, and in some cases to provide compensation and/or restoration for damages to natural
resources. Currently, we are involved in investigation and remediation at 14 current or former facilities. We have also been identified as a  potentially responsible party  (PRP) under applicable laws for environmental conditions at
approximately 30 former waste disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third parties at which investigation and/or remediation activities are ongoing.      We may face liability under CERCLA and other Federal, state and foreign laws for the entire cost of investigation or remediation of contaminated sites, or for natural resource damages, regardless of fault
or ownership at the time of the disposal or release. In addition, at certain sites we bear remediation responsibility pursuant to contractual obligations. Generally, at third-party operator sites involving multiple PRPs, liability has been or is
expected to be apportioned based on the nature and amount of hazardous substances disposed of by each party at the site and the number of financially viable PRPs. For additional information about these matters, see  Item 8. Financial
Statements Note 24. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.          
   23   

Table of Contents  

    Employees       As of December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 28,000 people.      During
2009, we continued to implement our comprehensive cost reduction program that included work force reductions and the rationalization of facilities. Also during 2009, we split-off our Mead Johnson business, which employed approximately 6,000 people.
     For further discussion about PTI and restructuring activities, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 4.
Restructuring.        Foreign Operations       We have significant operations outside the U.S. They are conducted both through our subsidiaries and through distributors.      For a geographic breakdown of net sales, see the table captioned Geographic Areas in  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 3. Business Segment Information  and for further discussion of our
net sales by geographic area see  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Geographic Areas.       International operations are subject to certain risks, which are inherent in conducting business abroad, including, but not limited to, currency fluctuations, possible nationalization or expropriation,
price and exchange controls, counterfeit products, limitations on foreign participation in local enterprises and other restrictive governmental actions. Our international businesses are also subject to government-imposed constraints, including laws
on pricing or reimbursement for use of products.      Depending on the direction of change relative to the U.S. dollar, foreign
currency values can increase or decrease the reported dollar value of our net assets and results of operations. In 2009, the change in foreign exchange rates had a net unfavorable impact on the growth rate of revenues. While we cannot predict with
certainty future changes in foreign exchange rates or the effect they will have on it, we attempt to mitigate their impact through operational means and by using various financial instruments. See the discussions under  Item 7A. Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 22. Financial Instruments.        Bristol-Myers Squibb Website       Our internet website address is  www.bms.com . On our website, we make
available, free of charge, our annual, quarterly and current reports, including amendments to such reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnishes such material to, the U.S. Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC).      Information relating to corporate governance at Bristol-Myers Squibb, including our Standards of
Business Conduct and Ethics, Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers, Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors, (collectively, the  Codes ), Corporate Governance Guidelines, and information concerning our Executive Committee,
Board of Directors, including Board Committees and Committee charters, and transactions in Bristol-Myers Squibb securities by directors and executive officers, is available on our website under the  Investors Corporate Governance 
caption and in print to any stockholder upon request. Any waivers to the Codes by directors or executive officers and any material amendment to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics for Directors and Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers
will be posted promptly on our website. Information relating to stockholder services, including our Dividend Reinvestment Plan and direct deposit of dividends, is available on our website under the  Investors Stockholder Services 
caption.      We incorporate by reference certain information from parts of our proxy statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders. The SEC allows us to disclose important information by referring to it in that manner. Please refer to such information. Our proxy statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and 2009 Annual Report will be available on our
website under the  Investors SEC Filings  caption on or about March 23, 2010.         
   24   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS.         Any of the
factors described below could significantly and negatively affect our business, prospects, financial condition, operating results, or credit ratings, which could cause the trading price of our common stock to decline. Additional risks and
uncertainties not presently known to us, or risks that we currently consider immaterial, may also impair our operations.        We face
intense competition from other pharmaceutical manufacturers, including both innovative medicines and lower-priced generic products.         Competition from manufacturers of competing products, including lower-priced generic versions of our products is a major challenge, both within the U.S. and internationally. Our business is confronted
by a record level of industry patent expirations and increasingly aggressive generic competition. Such competition may include (i) new products developed by competitors that have lower prices or superior performance features or that are
otherwise competitive with our current products; (ii) technological advances and patents attained by competitors; (iii) results of clinical studies related to our products or a competitor s products; (iv) earlier-than-expected
competition from generic companies; and (v) business combinations among our competitors and major customers.         We depend on key
products for most of our net sales, cash flows and earnings.         We derive a majority of our revenue and earnings from
a few key products. In 2009, net sales of PLAVIX* contributed approximately $6.1 billion, representing approximately 33% of total net sales. Net sales of ABILIFY* contributed approximately $2.6 billion, representing approximately 14% of total net
sales. Three other products (AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, REYATAZ and the SUSTIVA Franchise) each contributed more than $1.2 billion in net sales. A reduction in sales of one or more of these or other key products could significantly negatively impact our net
sales, cash flows and earnings. Our partnership net sales of PLAVIX* in Europe and Asia also contributed substantially to our equity in net income of affiliates, which was $558 million in 2009.         It is possible that we may lose market exclusivity of a product earlier than expected.         In the pharmaceutical industry, the majority of an innovative product s commercial value is usually realized during the period in
which it has market exclusivity. In the U.S. and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there are often very substantial and rapid declines in the product s sales. The
rate of this decline varies by country and by therapeutic category.        Market exclusivity for our products is based upon
patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. The scope of our patent rights may vary from country to country and may also be dependent on the availability of meaningful legal remedies in that country. The failure to obtain patent
and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use or loss of such rights, could be material to us. In some countries, including in certain EU member states, basic patent protection for our products may not exist because certain
countries did not historically offer the right to obtain certain types of patents and/or we (or our licensors) did not file in those markets. Absent relevant patent protection for a product, once the data exclusivity period expires, generic versions
of the product can be approved and marketed, such as generic clopidogrel bisulfate in certain EU markets. In addition, prior to the expiration of data exclusivity, a competitor could seek regulatory approval by submitting its own clinical trial data
to obtain marketing approval. It is also possible that in the EU, the publication of certain studies in journals prior to obtaining first EU marketing approval may be deemed to begin the data protection period for a product, which could reduce its
expected term of exclusivity in the EU.        Manufacturers of generic products are also increasingly seeking to challenge
patents before they expire, and may in some cases choose to launch a generic product  at risk  before the expiration of the applicable patent(s) and/or before the final resolution of related patent litigation. The length of market
exclusivity for any of our products is impossible to predict with certainty and there can be no assurance that a particular product will enjoy market exclusivity for the full period of time that appears in the estimates disclosed in this Form 10-K.
        Data protection for PLAVIX* has expired in the EU and PLAVIX* faces competition in European markets.         Data protection for PLAVIX* expired on July 15, 2008 in the EU. Generic clopidogrel bisulfate or alternative forms of clopidogrel
are present in over half of the markets in the EU, including France, Germany and the UK. By the end of 2009, PLAVIX* has experienced significant market share erosion and price discounts in these markets. We expect generic competition in other EU
markets to begin in the first half of 2010. PLAVIX* net sales decreased significantly in 2009 compared to 2008 and are expected to continue to decline from generic clopidogrel competition. As such, our international net sales from PLAVIX* and our
equity in net income of affiliates are expected to be significantly lower in 2010 when compared with prior years.         U.S. and foreign
laws and regulations may negatively affect our net sales and profit margins.         We could become subject to new
government laws and regulations, such as (i) healthcare reform initiatives in the U.S. at the Federal and state level and in other countries; (ii) changes in the U.S. FDA and foreign regulatory approval processes that may cause delays in
approving, or preventing the approval of, new products; (iii) tax changes such as the phasing out of tax benefits heretofore available in the U.S. and in certain foreign countries; (iv) new laws, regulations and judicial or other
governmental decisions affecting pricing, reimbursement or marketing within or across jurisdictions; (v) changes in intellectual property law; (vi) changes in tax law; and (vii) other matters such as compulsory licenses that could
alter the protections afforded to one or more of our products.          
   25   

Table of Contents  

     Our business and results of operations could be adversely affected by pending healthcare reform
legislation in the U.S.         There are proposed bills in both the U.S. Senate and House of Representatives to reform
healthcare in the United States. The bills include provisions that could increase the Medicaid rebate, expand the Medicaid program, provide additional prescription drug discounts to certain patients under Medicare Part D and/or assess annual fees to
pharmaceutical companies, among other things. Congress and the FDA are also actively considering ways to develop a regulatory mechanism that allows for approval of biologic drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on
the basis of less extensive data than is the basis for a full BLA. If and when any of these or other healthcare reform bills are passed into law, they could have a material adverse effect on our business or results of operation; it is not possible
at this time, however, to predict with any certainty what the potential impact of pending U.S. healthcare reform is likely to be.         We face increased pricing pressure in the U.S. and abroad from managed care organizations, institutional purchasers, and government agencies and programs that could negatively affect our net sales and profit margins.
        Pharmaceutical products are subject to increasing price pressures and other restrictions in the U.S. and
worldwide, including (i) rules and practices of managed care organizations and institutional and governmental purchasers, (ii) judicial decisions and governmental laws and regulations related to Medicare, Medicaid and healthcare reform,
including the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement, and Modernization Act of 2003, (iii) the potential impact of importation restrictions, legislative and/or regulatory changes, pharmaceutical reimbursement, Medicare Part D Formularies and
product pricing in general, (iv) delays in gaining reimbursement and/or reductions in reimbursement amounts in countries with broad coverage of pharmaceutical expenditures (e.g., major European markets, Japan and Canada), and (v) other
developments in technology and/or industry practices that could directly or indirectly impact the reimbursement policies and practices of third-party payers.         Changes to the product label for any of our marketed products or results from certain studies released after a product is approved could potentially have a negative impact on sales of that product.
        The label for any pharmaceutical product can be changed by the regulatory authorities at any time, including after
the product has been on the market for years. These changes are often the result of additional data from post-marketing studies, head-to-head trials, spontaneous reporting of adverse events from patients or healthcare professionals, studies that
identify biomarkers (objective characteristics that can indicate a particular response to a product or therapy), or other studies that produce important additional information about a product. The new information added to a product s labeling
can affect the safety (risk) and/or the efficacy (benefit) profile of the product. Sometimes the additional information from these studies identifies a portion of the patient population that may be non-responsive to the medicine. Changes to a label
based on such studies may limit the patient population, such as the recent changes to the PLAVIX* and ERBITUX* labels. The studies providing such additional information may be sponsored by us, but they can also be sponsored by our competitors,
insurance companies, government institutions, managed care organizations, influential scientists or investigators, or other interested parties. While additional safety and efficacy information from these studies assist us and healthcare providers in
identifying the best patient population for each of our products, it can also have a negative impact on sales for any such product to the extent the patient population or product label becomes more limited. Additionally, certain study results,
especially from head-to-head trials, could affect a product s formulary listing, which could also have an adverse effect on sales.         We may experience difficulties and delays in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products.         We may experience difficulties and delays inherent in the manufacturing, distribution and sale of our products, such as (i) seizure or recalls of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (ii) supply
chain continuity including as a result of a natural or manmade disaster at one of our facilities or at a critical supplier or vendor as well as our failure or the failure of any of our vendors or suppliers to comply with Current Good Manufacturing
Practices and other applicable regulations and quality assurance guidelines that could lead to manufacturing shutdowns, product shortages and delays in product manufacturing; (iii) manufacturing, quality assurance/quality control, supply
problems or governmental approval delays due to our consolidation and rationalization of manufacturing facilities and the sale or closure of certain sites; (iv) the failure of a sole source or single source supplier to provide us with necessary
raw materials, supplies or finished goods for an extended period of time that could impact continuous supply; (v) the failure of a third-party manufacturer to supply us with product on a timely bases; (vi) construction or regulatory
approval delays related to new facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, including those intended to support future demand for our biologics products; and (vii) other manufacturing or distribution problems including limits to
manufacturing capacity due to regulatory requirements, changes in types of products produced, such as biologics, physical limitations or other business interruptions that could impact continuous supply.         We may experience difficulties or delays in the development and commercialization of new products.         We may experience difficulties and delays in the development and commercialization of new products, including the inherent risks and
uncertainties associated with product development, such as (i) compounds or products that may appear promising in development but fail to reach market within the expected or optimal timeframe, or fail ever to reach market, or to be approved for
product extensions or additional indications for any number of reasons, including efficacy or safety concerns, the delay or denial of necessary regulatory approvals, delays or difficulties with producing products at a commercial scale level or
excessive costs to manufacture products; (ii) failure to enter into or successfully implement optimal alliances where appropriate for the discovery and/or commercialization of products; (iii) failure to maintain a consistent scope and
variety of promising late-stage products; or (iv) failure of one or more of our
         
   26   

Table of Contents  

products to achieve or maintain commercial viability. In addition, in the U.S., we have observed a recent trend by the FDA to delay its approval decision on a new product beyond its announced
action date, sometimes by as much as six months or longer. Regulatory approval delays are especially common when the product is expected to have Risk Evaluation and Mitigation Strategy to address significant risk/benefit issues. The inability to
bring a product to market or a significant delay in the expected approval and related launch date of a new product could potentially have a negative impact on our net sales and earnings and/or result in a significant impairment of in-process
research and development or other intangible assets. Finally, a natural or man made disaster or sabotage of research and development labs and a loss of key molecules and intermediaries could negatively impact the product development cycle.
        There are legal matters in which adverse outcomes could negatively affect our business.         We are currently involved in various lawsuits, claims, proceedings and government investigations, any of which can preclude or delay
commercialization of products or adversely affect operations, profitability, liquidity or financial condition, including (i) intellectual property disputes; (ii) sales and marketing practices in the U.S. and internationally;
(iii) adverse decisions in litigation, including product liability and commercial cases; (iv) recalls or withdrawals of pharmaceutical products or forced closings of manufacturing plants; (v) the failure to fulfill obligations under
supply contracts with the government and other customers which may result in liability; (vi) product pricing and promotional matters; (vii) lawsuits and claims asserting violations of securities, antitrust, federal and state pricing and
other laws; (viii) environmental, health and safety matters; and (ix) tax liabilities. There can be no assurance that there will not be an increase in scope in any or all of these matters or there will not be additional lawsuits, claims,
proceedings or investigations in the future; nor is there any assurance that any or all of these matters will not have a material adverse impact on us.         We rely on third parties to meet their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations.         We rely on suppliers, vendors and partners, including alliances with other pharmaceutical companies for the manufacturing, development and commercialization of products, and other third parties to meet
their contractual, regulatory, and other obligations in relation to their arrangements with us. The failure of these parties to meet their obligations, and/or the development of significant disagreements or other factors that materially disrupt the
ongoing commercial relationship and prevent optimal alignment between the partners and their activities, could have a material adverse impact on us. In addition, if these parties violate or are alleged to have violated any laws or regulations during
the performance of their obligations for us, it is possible that we could suffer financial and reputational harm or other negative outcomes, including possible legal consequences.         Failure to execute our business strategy could adversely impact our growth and profitability.         Over the last few years, we have transformed from a diversified pharmaceutical and related healthcare products company into a biopharmaceutical company with a focus on innovative products in areas of
high unmet medical need. There are risks associated with this strategy. We may not be able to consistently replenish our innovative pipeline, through internal research and development or transactions with third parties. The competition among major
pharmaceutical companies for acquisition and product licensing opportunities has become more intense, eliminating some opportunities and making others more expensive. We may not be able to locate suitable acquisition targets or licensing partners at
reasonable prices or successfully execute such transactions. Additionally, changes in our structure, operations, revenues, costs, or efficiency resulting from major transactions such as acquisitions, divestitures, mergers, alliances, restructurings
or other strategic initiatives, may result in greater than expected costs, may take longer than expected to complete or encounter other difficulties, including the need for regulatory approval where appropriate. The inability to expand our product
portfolio with new products or maintain a competitive cost basis could materially and adversely affect our future results of operations. In addition, our failure to hire and retain personnel with the right expertise and experience in operations that
are critical to our business functions could adversely impact the execution of our business strategy.         We are increasingly dependent
on our outsourcing arrangements.         We are increasing our dependence on third-party providers for certain outsourced
services, including certain research and development capabilities, certain financial outsourcing arrangements, certain human resource functions, and information technology activities and systems. Many of these third-party providers are located in
markets that are subject to political risk, corruption, infrastructure problems and natural disasters in addition to country specific privacy and data security risks given current legal and regulatory environments. The failure of these service
providers to meet their obligations, adequately deploy business continuity plans in the event of a crisis and/or the development of significant disagreements, natural or man made disasters or other factors that materially disrupt our ongoing
relationship with these providers could negatively affect operations.         We are increasingly dependent on information technology.
        We are increasingly dependent on information technology systems and any significant breakdown, invasion,
destruction or interruption of these systems could negatively impact operations. In addition, there is a risk of business interruption or reputational damage given an infiltration of a data center or loss of private information from us or our
third-party providers.          
   27   

Table of Contents  

     Adverse changes in U.S., global, or regional economic conditions could have a continuing adverse
effect on the profitability of some or all of our businesses.         The global economic downturn has adversely affected
commercial activity in the U.S. and other regions of the world in which we do business. We believe that based on our current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities balances and expected operating cash flows, decreased liquidity in the
credit markets will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow, or financial flexibility. However, deterioration of the financial markets could cause impairments to our investment portfolio, which could negatively impact our
financial condition and reported earnings. A continued decline in economic activity could adversely affect demand for our products, thus reducing our revenues, earnings and cash flow, as well as have pass-through effects on us resulting from any
significant financial instability from our customers, distributors, alliance partners, suppliers, critical vendors, service providers and counterparties to certain financial instruments, such as marketable securities and derivatives. The severe
decline in equity markets during 2008 resulted in a decline in our pension plan assets which increased funding requirements. Although global capital markets have stabilized and partially recovered during 2009, future pension plan funding
requirements continue to be sensitive to global economic conditions.         Changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates
could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations.         We have significant operations outside of the
U.S. Revenues from operations outside of the U.S. accounted for 37% of our revenues in 2009. As such, we are exposed to changes in fluctuation of foreign currency exchange rates. We also have significant borrowings which are exposed to changes in
interest rates. We are also exposed to other economic factors over which we have no control.         The illegal distribution and sale by
third parties of counterfeit versions of our products or stolen products could have a negative impact on our reputation and business.         Third parties may illegally distribute and sell counterfeit versions of our products, which do not meet the rigorous manufacturing and testing standards that our products undergo. A patient who
receives a counterfeit drug may be at risk for a number of dangerous health consequences. Our reputation and business could suffer harm as a result of counterfeit drugs sold under the name of one of our products. In addition, thefts of inventory at
warehouses, plants or while in-transit which are not properly stored and which are sold through unauthorized channels could adversely impact patient safety, our reputation and our business.          
   28   

Table of Contents  

Item 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.         None.

Item 2.   
   PROPERTIES.         Our world
headquarters are located at 345 Park Avenue, New York, NY, where we lease approximately 81,000 square feet of floor space. We own or lease approximately 250 properties in 48 countries.      We manufacture products at 19 worldwide locations, all of which are owned by us. Our manufacturing locations and aggregate square feet of floor space by geographic area were as
follows at December 31, 2009:       
    Portions of these manufacturing locations and the
other properties owned or leased by us in the U.S. and elsewhere are used for research and development, administration, storage and distribution. For further information about our properties, see  Item 1. Business Manufacturing and Quality
Assurance.       As part of our PTI, we have reduced and expect to continue to reduce the number of our manufacturing
locations.       

Item 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.         Information pertaining to legal proceedings can be found in  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 24. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies  and is incorporated by reference herein.       

Item 4.   
   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.         No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2009.       
  
   29   

Table of Contents  

    PART IA        Executive Officers of the Registrant       Listed below is information on our
executive officers as of February 19, 2010. Executive officers are elected by the Board of Directors for an initial term, which continues until the first Board meeting following the next Annual Meeting of Stockholders, and thereafter, are
elected for a one-year term or until their successors have been elected. All executive officers serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.       

Name and Current Position    
      
     Age    
      
     Employment History for the Past 5 Years     
 
    James M. Cornelius      Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer       Member of the Management Council 

66  
      
    2005 to 2006   Interim Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board, Guidant Corporation.     2006 to 2007   Interim Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Company.     2007 to 2008   Chief Executive Officer and Director of the Company.     2008 to present   Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company.    

Lamberto Andreotti         Director President and Chief Operating Officer       Member of the Management
Council    
      
  59  
      
    2005 to 2007   Executive Vice President and President, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals, a division of the
Company.     2007 to 2008   Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals, a division of the
Company.     2008 to 2009   Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer.     2009 to present   President and Chief Operating Officer and Director of the Company.    

Charles Bancroft         Acting Chief Financial Officer       Member of the Management Council    
      
  50  
      
    2005 to 2009   Vice President, Finance, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals, a division of the Company.     2010 to present   Acting Chief Financial Officer.    

Joseph C. Caldarella         Vice President and Corporate Controller    
      
  54  
      
    2005 to present   Vice President and Corporate Controller.    

Beatrice Cazala         President, Global Commercialization, and President, Europe       Member of the Management
Council    
      
  54  
      
    2004 to 2008   President, EMEA, Worldwide Medicines International.     2008 to 2009   President, EMEA and Asia Pacific, Worldwide Medicines International.     2009 to present   President, Global Commercialization, and President, Europe.    

John E. Celentano      President, Emerging Markets   Asia Pacific       Member of the Management Council 

50  
      
    2005 to 2008   President, Health Care Group, a division of the Company.     2008 to 2009   Senior Vice President, Strategy and Productivity Transformation.     2009 to present   President, Emerging Markets and Asia Pacific.    

Brian Daniels, M.D.      Senior Vice President, Global Development and Medical Affairs       Member of the Management
Council    
      
  50  
      
    2004 to 2008   Senior Vice President, Global Clinical Development, Research and Development, a division of the
Company.     2008 to present   Senior Vice President, Global Development and Medical Affairs.    

Carlo de Notaristefani      President, Technical Operations and Global Support Functions       Member of the Management
Council    
      
  52  
      
    2004 to 2009   President, Technical Operations, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals, a division of the Company.     2009 to present   President, Technical Operations and Global Support Functions.           
   30   

Table of Contents  

Anthony C. Hooper      President, Americas       Member of the Management Council    
      
    55   
      
    2004 to 2009   President, U.S. Pharmaceuticals, Worldwide Pharmaceuticals Group, a division of the
Company.     2009 to present   President, Americas.    

Sandra Leung      Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary       Member of the Management
Council    
      
    49   
      
    2002 to 2006   Vice President and Corporate Secretary.     2006 to 2007   Vice President, Corporate Secretary and Acting General Counsel.     2007 to present   Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary.    

Anthony A. McBride      Senior Vice President, Human Resources       Member of the Management
Council    
      
    46   
      
    2005 to 2008   Vice President, Human Resources, Pharmaceutical Commercial Operations, a division of the Company.
     2008 to present   Senior Vice President, Human Resources.    

Elliott Sigal, M.D., Ph.D.      Executive Vice President, Chief Scientific Officer       and President, Research and
Development       Member of the Management Council    
      
    58   
      
    2004 to present   Chief Scientific Officer and President, Research and Development.    

Robert T. Zito      Senior Vice President, Corporate and Business       Communications and Chief Communications
Officer       Member of the Management Council    
      
    56   
      
    2004 to present   Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs.         
  
   31   

Table of Contents  

    PART II        

Item 5.   
   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT S COMMON STOCK AND OTHER STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.          Market Prices       Bristol-Myers Squibb common and preferred stocks are traded on the New York
Stock Exchange (NYSE) (Symbol: BMY). A quarterly summary of the high and low market prices is presented below:      Common:

*  
  During the second, third and fourth quarters of 2008, there were no trades of our preferred stock.         Holders of Common Stock       The number of record holders of common stock at December 31, 2009 was 62,836.      The number of record holders is
based upon the actual number of holders registered on our books at such date and does not include holders of shares in  street names  or persons, partnerships, associations, corporations or other entities identified in security position
listings maintained by depository trust companies.       Dividends       Our Board of Directors declared the following dividends per share, which were paid in 2009 and 2008 in the quarters indicated below:       
    In December 2009, our Board of Directors declared a
quarterly dividend of $0.32 per share on our common stock which was paid on February 1, 2010 to shareholders of record as of January 4, 2010. The Board of Directors also declared a quarterly dividend of $0.50 per share on our preferred
stock, payable on March 3, 2010 to shareholders of record as of February 8, 2010.         
   32   

Table of Contents  

    Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       The following table summarizes the surrenders and exchanges of our equity securities during the 12 month period ended December 31, 2009:       

(a)  
  Reflects transaction during the 12 months ended December 31, 2009 for the surrender of 1,002,375 shares of common stock to satisfy tax withholding obligations in
connection with the vesting of restricted stock issued to employees.     

(b)  
  On December 23, 2009, we completed the split-off of our 83.1% interest in Mead Johnson to tendering shareholders. The split-off was completed through an exchange
offer of our previously held 170 million shares of Mead Johnson for 269 million outstanding shares of our stock.        In June 2001, we announced that the Board of Directors authorized the purchase of up to $14.0 billion of our common stock. At December 31, 2009, approximately $2.2 billion of shares may yet be
purchased under the program. During 2009, no shares were repurchased pursuant to this program.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.          Five Year
Financial Summary        

(a)  
  We recognized items that affected the comparability of results. For a discussion of these items for the years 2009, 2008 and 2007, see  Item 7. Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Expenses.      

(b)  
  Marketable securities include current and non-current assets.           
   34   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.          Executive Summary       Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, the Company, we, our or us) is a global biopharmaceutical company, consisting of global pharmaceutical/biotechnology and international consumer medicines
businesses, whose mission is to discover, develop and deliver innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. We license, manufacture, market, distribute and sell products on a global basis.      In February 2009, Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (Mead Johnson) completed an initial public offering (IPO) of its Class A common stock.
Post IPO, we held an 83.1% interest in Mead Johnson. On December 23, 2009, we completed an exchange offer of our previously held 170 million shares of Mead Johnson for 269 million outstanding shares of our stock. Mead Johnson s
financial results, previously reported as a separate segment, have been reported as discontinued operations for all years presented.      We continued to execute our string-of-pearls strategy in 2009 with the acquisition of Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) in September 2009, and through the various collaboration agreements entered into during the year. The divestiture of Mead Johnson
and continued execution of the string-of-pearls strategy has allowed us to become a more focused biopharmaceutical company. We are meeting our productivity transformation initiative (PTI) objectives and have implemented a culture of continuous
improvement.       2009 Financial Highlights       The following table is a summary of operating activity:       
     Net Sales       Net sales increased 6%, or 8% excluding an unfavorable foreign exchange impact. U.S. net sales increased 12% to $11.9 billion in 2009.
International net sales decreased 3%, or increased 3% excluding an unfavorable foreign exchange impact, to $6.9 billion.       

Sales growth in 2009 was led by continued increases in PLAVIX* (clopidogrel bisulfate) of 10%, and ABILIFY* (aripiprazole) of 20%.

The virology portfolio continued to demonstrate strong sales growth in 2009, led by BARACLUDE (entecavir) of 36%, the SUSTIVA (efavirenz) Franchise
of 11% and REYATAZ (atazanavir sulfate) of 8%.          

Worldwide growth of ORENCIA (abatacept) of 37% and SPRYCEL (dasatinib) of 36%.          

ERBITUX (cetuximab) net sales were down 9%.          

ONGLYZA (saxagliptin), a DPP-IV inhibitor, has been submitted to regulatory authorities in more than 50 countries, approved in 36 and, beginning in
the third quarter of 2009, launched in six countries - the United States (U.S.), Canada, Mexico, Germany, the United Kingdom (UK) and Denmark. Net sales were $24 million in 2009.            
   35   

Table of Contents  

    BioPharmaceutical Segment Results       The increase in BioPharmaceutical segment results is attributed to:       

Increased net sales of various key products noted above.          

More favorable gross margin percentage attributed to favorable foreign exchange, higher average selling prices, a more favorable product mix and
realized efficiencies from PTI.          

More efficient and reduced spending within marketing, selling and administrative.          

Partially offset by increased investments within our research and development pipeline.          Net Earnings from Continuing Operations Attributable to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company       The increase is attributed to:       

Improved segment results.          

Partially offset by unfavorable impact of specified items in 2009   the prior year includes a gain on sale of ImClone Systems Incorporated
(ImClone) shares.          

Additional taxes on higher income levels; however, the effective tax rate was reduced by 170 basis points to 21.1%.          Net Earnings from Discontinued Operations Attributable to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company       In 2009, we completed the split-off of Mead Johnson resulting in an after-tax gain of approximately $7.2 billion. The results of the Mead Johnson business and related gain are
included in discontinued operations for all years presented. In addition to the results of Mead Johnson, the 2008 results include a $2.0 billion after-tax gain on the divestiture of ConvaTec, a $43 million after-tax loss on the divestiture of
Medical Imaging and their operating results prior to the divestitures.       Diluted Earnings Per Share from Continuing Operations
      Diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations increased 21% during 2009 due to the improved operating
results driven by the activities discussed above. The EPS impact of the 269 million share reduction resulting from the Mead Johnson split-off was minimal due to the relatively short period that the lower share count was outstanding.   
  Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and related EPS information, are adjusted to
exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses and other specified items. Our non-GAAP diluted EPS from continuing operations increased 24% during 2009 after adjusting for specified items of $428 million in 2009 and $278 million in 2008. For a
detailed listing of all specified items and further information and reconciliations of non-GAAP financial measures, see   Specified Items  and   Non-GAAP Financial Measures  below.       Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities       Sources of cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities included $4.1 billion generated from operating activities; net proceeds from Mead Johnson s issuance of various notes and draw down from
their credit facility of $1.7 billion, which were used to repay intercompany loans prior to the split-off; net proceeds of $782 million from the Mead Johnson IPO, and proceeds of $456 million from the sale of various mature businesses and
trademarks. These sources were more than adequate to fund dividend payments of $2.5 billion, Medarex business acquisition of $2.3 billion and capital expenditures of $730 million.       Business Environment       We conduct our business primarily within the
pharmaceutical/biotechnology industry, which is highly competitive and subject to numerous government regulations. Many competitive factors may significantly affect sales of our products, including product efficacy, safety, price and
cost-effectiveness; marketing effectiveness; product labeling; quality control and quality assurance of our manufacturing operations; and research and development of new products. To successfully compete for business in the healthcare industry, we
must demonstrate that our products offer medical benefits as well as cost advantages. Currently, most of our new product introductions compete with other products already on the market in the same therapeutic category, in addition to potential
competition of new products that competitors may introduce in the future. We manufacture branded products, which are priced higher than generic products. Generic competition is one of our leading challenges globally.      In the pharmaceutical/biotechnology industry, the majority of an innovative product s commercial value is usually realized during the
period that the product has market exclusivity. When a product loses exclusivity, it is no longer protected by a patent and is subject to new competing products in the form of generic brands. Upon exclusivity loss, we can lose a major portion of
that product s sales in a short period of time. Currently, generic versions of biological products cannot be approved under U.S. law.
        
   36   

Table of Contents  

However, the law could change in the future. Even in the absence of new legislation, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) is taking steps toward allowing generic versions of certain
biologics. Competitors seeking approval of biological products must file their own safety and efficacy data and address the challenges of biologics manufacturing, which involve more complex processes which are more costly than those of traditional
pharmaceutical operations.      Both in the U.S. and internationally, the healthcare industry is subject to various
government-imposed regulations authorizing prices or price controls that have and will continue to have an impact on our net sales. In the U.S., Congress and some state legislatures have considered a number of proposals and have enacted laws that
could result in major changes in the current healthcare system, either nationally or at the state level. Driven in part by budget concerns, Medicaid access and reimbursement restrictions have been implemented in some states and proposed in many
others. In addition, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act provides outpatient prescription drug coverage to senior citizens in the U.S. This legislation has had a modest favorable impact on us as a result of an increase
in the number of seniors with drug coverage. At the same time, there continues to be a potential negative impact on the U.S. biopharmaceuticals business that could result from pricing pressures or controls. In many markets outside the U.S., we
operate in environments of government-mandated, cost-containment programs, or under other regulatory bodies or groups that can exert downward pressure on pricing. Pricing freedom is limited in the UK, for instance, by the operation of a profit
control plan and in Germany by the operation of a reference price system. Companies also face significant delays in market access for new products as more than two years can elapse after drug approval before new medicines become available in some
countries.      The growth of Managed Care Organizations (MCOs) in the U.S. has played a large role in the competition that
surrounds the healthcare industry. MCOs seek to reduce healthcare expenditures for participants by making volume purchases and entering into long-term contracts to negotiate discounts with various pharmaceutical providers. Because of the market
potential created by the large pool of participants, marketing prescription drugs to MCOs has become an important part of our strategy. Companies compete for inclusion in MCO formularies and we generally have been successful in having our major
products included. We believe that developments in the managed care industry, including continued consolidation, have had and will continue to have a generally downward pressure on prices.      Pharmaceutical/biotechnology production processes are complex, highly regulated and vary widely from product to product. Shifting or adding manufacturing capacity can be a lengthy
process requiring significant capital expenditures and regulatory approvals. Biologics manufacturing involves more complex processes than those of traditional pharmaceutical operations. As biologics become a larger percentage of our product
portfolio, we will continue to make arrangements with third-party manufacturers and to make substantial investments to increase our internal capacity to produce biologics on a commercial scale. One such investment is a new, state-of-the-art
manufacturing facility for the production of biologics in Devens, Massachusetts, the construction of which was substantially completed in 2009. We expect to submit the site for regulatory approval in 2011.      We have maintained a competitive position in the market and strive to uphold this position, which is dependent on our success in
discovering, developing and delivering innovative, cost-effective products to help patients prevail over serious diseases.      We
are the subject of a number of significant pending lawsuits, claims, proceedings and investigations. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the final outcomes of these investigations or litigations. For additional discussion of legal
matters, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 24. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.        Strategy       We continue to execute our multi-year strategy which has allowed us to transform into a next-generation biopharmaceutical company. The
strategy encompasses all aspects and all geographies of the business and has yielded and will continue to yield substantial cost savings and cost avoidance which increases our financial flexibility to take advantage of attractive market
opportunities that may arise.      With the completion of the Mead Johnson split-off as well as the prior year dispositions of the
ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses, we are now operating within our core biopharmaceutical business focus. In 2009, we completed the sale of our mature brands businesses and related manufacturing facilities in the Asia-Pacific region, China,
Pakistan, Egypt and Australia. We are also reducing the number of facilities in our global manufacturing network.      We are also
allocating resources to continue our string-of-pearls strategy and enable strategic transactions, which could range from collaboration and license agreements to the acquisition of companies. In September 2009, we completed our acquisition of Medarex
and entered into or restructured collaboration agreements with various companies during 2009, including Alder Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Alder), Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), ZymoGenetics, Inc. (ZymoGenetics), and Eli Lilly and Company
(Lilly) in January 2010.         
   37   

Table of Contents  

   Managing costs is another part of our overall strategy. We have implemented all PTI
initiatives resulting in the incurrence of $1.3 billion in costs. We are on target to create a total of $2.5 billion in annual productivity savings and cost avoidance by 2012 of which approximately 90% is expected to be realized by the end of 2010.
Subsequent to the PTI, we have further implemented a strategic process designed to achieve a culture of continuous improvement to enhance efficiency, effectiveness and competitiveness and to continue to improve our cost base.      We will continue to focus on the development of our biopharmaceuticals business and will maintain growth by investing in research and
development as well as in key growth products, including specialty and biologic medicines and cardiovascular and metabolic drugs. ONGLYZA has been submitted to regulatory authorities in more than 50 countries, approved in 36 and, beginning in the
third quarter of 2009, launched in six countries   the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Germany, the UK and Denmark.      We have
refined our focus on emerging markets which represent significant opportunities for growth. We have identified five emerging markets on which to focus   Brazil, Russia, India, China and Turkey. The emerging public health interests of these
countries best align with our strategy as well as our current portfolio and pipeline.       Product and Pipeline Developments       Belatacept       

In September 2009, we announced that the FDA has accepted, for filing and review, our submission of a biologic license application for belatacept,
which is under development for use in kidney transplantation. The Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) goal for FDA action is May 1, 2010. In January 2010, the FDA announced that its Cardiovascular and Renal Drugs Advisory Committee plans to
meet on March 1, 2010 to provide advice regarding this application.          

In May 2009, belatacept, an investigational co-stimulation blocker being studied for use in solid organ transplantation, was the subject of nine
company-sponsored clinical presentations (including the first Phase III data) at the American Transplant Congress. The data suggest that belatacept may represent a promising therapeutic option for kidney transplant patients.
        Dapagliflozin       

In October 2009, we announced results from a 24-week Phase III clinical study, which demonstrated that the investigational drug dapagliflozin, added
to metformin, provided significant mean reductions in the primary endpoint, glycosylated hemoglobin level (HbA1c) and in the secondary endpoint, fasting plasma glucose in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled with metformin alone, as
compared to placebo plus metformin. The study also showed that individuals receiving dapagliflozin had statistically greater mean reduction in body weight compared to individuals taking placebo.          

In June 2009, at the American Diabetes Association Annual Scientific Sessions, a 12-week study of dapagliflozin was presented which demonstrated
improved glycemic control in inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes patients who were treated with high doses of insulin and common oral anti-diabetic medicines.          

In March 2009, the Company and AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca) published findings from a 12-week, Phase IIb dose-ranging study that dapagliflozin
produced clinically meaningful reductions across all key glycemic measures studied in treatment-naive type 2 diabetes patients, compared to placebo. The study findings also showed that patients receiving dapagliflozin experienced greater reductions
in body weight compared to patients on placebo.         Apixaban       

In December 2009, the Company and Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) announced plans to submit a regulatory filing in the first half of 2010 for apixaban in
Europe. The companies plan to file for regulatory approval of apixaban for the prevention of venous thromboembolism after orthopedic surgery. The application will be supported by ADVANCE-2 and ADVANCE-3, two clinical trials that evaluated apixaban
versus the European dosing regimen of enoxaparin for prevention of VTE in patients undergoing orthopedic surgery. Apixaban is a novel, oral, highly-selective Factor Xa inhibitor, a new class of agents being studied for the potential to prevent and
treat blood clots in the veins and arteries.          

In July 2009, the results of the apixaban ADVANCE-2 study were presented at a late-breaking clinical trial session at the Congress of the
International Society of Thrombosis and Hemostasis. The study s results demonstrated that apixaban was superior to the European regimen of enoxaparin (standard of care) for reducing the risk of venous thromboembolism in patients undergoing
total knee replacement surgery and showed lower observed bleeding rates compared to enoxaparin. The study also showed that the overall safety profile for apixaban was similar to enoxaparin.          

In March 2009, the Company and Pfizer initiated a Phase III program for the treatment of Acute Coronary Syndrome.            
   38   

Table of Contents  

   Ipilimumab       

In May 2009, the Company and Medarex announced, at the American Society of Clinical Oncology annual meeting, that updated survival results from
follow-up extensions of three Phase II studies show a two-year survival ranging from 30% to 42% in patients with advanced metastatic melanoma (Stage III or IV).         NTC-801       

In March 2009, we announced a global collaboration with Nissan Chemical Industries, Ltd. and Teijin Pharma Limited (Nissan) for the development and
commercialization of NTC-801, a selective inhibitor of the acetylcholine-activated potassium ion channel, currently in Phase I development in Japan, for the maintenance of normal sinus rhythm in patients with atrial fibrillation.
        PEG-Interferon Lambda       

In November 2009, at the 60   th    Annual Meeting of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, the Company and ZymoGenetics presented
final Phase Ib results for PEG-Interferon lambda in hepatitis C. Antiviral activity was seen at all dose levels tested and the results support moving to dose-ranging Phase II studies in treatment-na ve hepatitis C patients.

In January 2009, we announced a global collaboration with ZymoGenetics on our PEG-Interferon lambda, a novel type 3 interferon currently in Phase Ib
development for the treatment of hepatitis C. In April 2009, the Company and ZymoGenetics announced positive 4-week results of PEG-Interferon lambda with ribavirin for the treatment of hepatitis C from an ongoing Phase Ib clinical trial.
        XL184       

In October 2009, the Company and Exelixis, Inc. (Exelixis) reported new Phase II data for the developmental compound XL184 in patients with
glioblastoma multiforme (GBM), the most common and aggressive form of brain cancer. XL184 showed promising activity in GBM patients receiving a daily dose of 125 milligrams of the compound.          

In May 2009, the Company and Exelixis reported, at the American Society of Clinical Oncology annual meeting, encouraging data from an ongoing Phase
II trial of XL184 in patients with previously-treated GBM.         ABILIFY*       

In November 2009, the Company and Otsuka announced that the FDA approved ABILIFY* for the treatment of irritability associated with autistic
disorder in pediatric patients (ages 6 to 17 years).          

In November 2009, the Company and Otsuka following discussions with the Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), withdrew the
marketing authorization application in the EU for a new indication for ABILIFY* in the treatment of major depressive episodes, as an adjunctive therapy, in patients who have had an inadequate response to previous treatment with antidepressants.
        ERBITUX*       

In September 2009, at the European Cancer Organisation and European Society of Medical Oncology Multidisciplinary Congress, data was presented on
two Phase III ERBITUX* studies in first-line metastatic colorectal cancer patients. A retrospective analysis of the Phase III CRYSTAL study demonstrated that ERBITUX*, when added to a FOLFIRI chemotherapy regimen, was shown to increase
progression-free survival (PFS) median overall survival in first-line metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) patients compared to those receiving FOLFIRI alone. In a subset of patients with mCRC who have tumors without K-ras mutations (commonly
referred to as  wild-type   K-ras ), median overall survival was increased to 23.5 months in patients who received ERBITUX* plus FOLFIRI compared to 20 months for those taking FOLFIRI alone. Another Phase III study of ERBITUX* plus
chemotherapy (primarily capecitabine plus oxaliplatin) in first-line mCRC, known as COIN, was conducted in the UK by the Medical Research Council. The COIN study did not meet its primary endpoint of overall survival.          

In July 2009, the Company and Lilly announced that the FDA had approved revisions to the U.S. prescribing information for ERBITUX* concerning the
treatment of patients with an epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)-expressing mCRC. The labeling revisions include a modification which states that ERBITUX* is not recommended for patients whose tumors had  K-ras  mutations in codon 12
or 13. An estimated 40% of patients with mCRC have tumors with such  K-ras  mutations while approximately 60% of patients with mCRC have tumors without K-ras mutations.          

In March 2009, the Company and Lilly announced that the companies received a complete response letter from the FDA for the first-line squamous cell
carcinoma of the head and neck supplemental Biologics License Application (sBLA) for ERBITUX*. In its complete response letter the FDA requested an additional pharmacokinetic study to confirm the comparability of ERBITUX* used in
           
   39   

Table of Contents  

the first-line head and neck submission as compared to the ERBITUX* currently marketed in the United States. As previously announced, the Company and Lilly recently withdrew the advanced
non-small cell lung cancer sBLA for ERBITUX* because of the same matter. In both cases, the companies continue to work with the FDA to confirm pharmacokinetic comparability.         IXEMPRA       

In March 2009, we withdrew our marketing authorization application for IXEMPRA (ixabepilone), which was submitted to the European Medicines Agency
in September 2007.         ALD518       

In November 2009, the Company and Alder entered into a global agreement for the development and commercialization of ALD518, a novel biologic that
has completed Phase IIa development for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. ALD518 is a humanized monoclonal antibody targeting IL-6.         PLAVIX*       

In November 2009, the U.S. PLAVIX* label was updated with new warnings on the use of PRILOSEC* (omeprazole) and certain other drugs that could
interfere with PLAVIX* by reducing its effectiveness. The label was also updated to include warnings about the variability of response attributed to CYP 2C19 genetic polymorphisms. The company and sanofi are currently in discussions with the FDA
regarding possible additional changes to the U.S. PLAVIX* label.          

In August 2009, the OASIS study group presented initial results of the CURRENT-OASIS 7 clinical trial at the European Society of Cardiology congress
in Barcelona. The large-scale, global study provided information about an intensified dose-regimen of PLAVIX* in acute coronary syndrome (ACS) patients managed by an early invasive strategy with an intent for percutaneous coronary intervention
(PCI). The study showed no added benefit on the composite primary end-point (cardiovascular death, heart attack or stroke at 30 days) with the higher dose in the entire ACS study population. For clinically relevant subgroups pre-specified for
preliminary analysis, such as the PCI group (70% of the trial population), potentially medically relevant differences in patient outcomes were observed. In those subgroups, analysis showed an improvement in outcome for PCI patients taking the higher
PLAVIX* dose regimen (600 mg loading/150 mg for days 2-7/75 mg for days 8-30) over the standard dose regimen (300 mg loading/75 mg for days 2-30), as shown by a 15% reduction of the same composite end-point of cardiovascular death, heart attack and
stroke. There was a statistically significant increase in the primary safety endpoint of major bleeding with the high-dose compared to the standard-dose PLAVIX* regimen in both the overall trial population and the PCI population.

In March 2009, the Company and sanofi-aventis (sanofi) announced new findings from their Active A trial. The investigational study on PLAVIX*
provided results that demonstrated that, for patients with atrial fibrillation who were at increased risk for stroke and could not take an oral anticoagulant, taking PLAVIX* in addition to aspirin significantly reduced major vascular events by 11%
over aspirin alone. The greatest benefit was in reduction of stroke by 28%, which is the primary goal of physicians treating patients with atrial fibrillation. Compared to aspirin alone, taking PLAVIX* in addition to aspirin significantly and as
expected increased the rate of major bleeding.         ONGLYZA       

In December 2009, the Company and AstraZeneca submitted an application with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for a fixed dose combination
of ONGLYZA plus metformin HCl extended-release tablets. The FDA is currently reviewing the submission.          

In October 2009, the Company and AstraZeneca announced that the European Commission has granted marketing authorization for ONGLYZA, a dipeptidyl
peptidase-4 inhibitor, in all 27 countries of the European Union to treat type 2 diabetes in adults with either metformin, a sulfonylurea or a thiazolidinedione, when any of these other agents alone, with diet and exercise, does not provide adequate
glycemic control.          

In October 2009, the Company and AstraZeneca announced results of the 18-week Phase IIIb study in adults with type 2 diabetes with inadequate
glycemic control on metformin therapy alone found that the addition of ONGLYZA 5mg per day to metformin treatment achieved the primary objective of demonstrating non-inferiority compared to the addition of JANUVIA*(sitagliptin) 100mg per
day to metformin treatment in reducing HbA1c from baseline.          

In July 2009, the Company and AstraZeneca announced that the FDA approved ONGLYZA. ONGLYZA is indicated as an adjunct to diet and exercise to
improve blood sugar (glycemic) control in adults for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus. ONGLYZA once daily can be used in combination with commonly prescribed oral anti-diabetic medications, metformin, sulfonylureas or thiazolidinediones, or
as a monotherapy to significantly reduce glycosylated hemoglobin levels.            
   40   

Table of Contents  

In June 2009, at the American Diabetes Association Annual Scientific Sessions, interim analysis (at 102 weeks) of a 42-month long-term Phase III
extension study was presented which showed that when ONGLYZA was added to metformin in patients with inadequately controlled type 2 diabetes, the profile of adverse events was consistent with that seen at 24 weeks, and the treatment regimen produced
long-term glycemic improvement.         ORENCIA       

In January 2010, the European Commission approved ORENCIA in combination with methotrexate for the treatment of moderate to severe active
polyarticular juvenile idiopathic arthritis in pediatric patients six years of age and older who have had an insufficient response to other disease-modifying anti-rheumatic drugs, including at least one TNF inhibitor.      

In October 2009, we announced that new clinical data support continued development of a subcutaneous administration of ORENCIA for patients with
moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis. The subcutaneous program utilizes a new formulation of ORENCIA, which has been specifically designed for subcutaneous administration. These data, from a 4-month open-label trial involving 100 patients,
were presented at the American College of Rheumatology Annual Scientific Meeting. The study showed that weekly administration of a 125 mg subcutaneous dose of ORENCIA resulted in minimal, transient immunogenicity prior to month 4 after repeat
dosing. The immunogenicity was similar whether ORENCIA was administered in combination with methotrexate, a common treatment for rheumatoid arthritis, or as a monotherapy. At month four, patients had no antibody response to subcutaneous ORENCIA.

In October 2009, we announced two-year results of a study that supports use of ORENCIA for methotrexate-na ve patients with moderate to severe
rheumatoid arthritis of less than or equal to two years duration. The data from the AGREE study, which compared patients treated with ORENCIA plus methotrexate versus patients treated with methotrexate alone, show that patients taking ORENCIA in
combination with methotrexate achieved sustained low disease activity scores at 24 months. The data also showed that ORENCIA plus methotrexate can inhibit radiographic progression of rheumatoid arthritis and improve physical function in addition to
relieving pain, swelling and fatigue. The safety profile for the open-label period was similar to the double-blind period of the study.          

In August 2009, we announced that clinical data added to the labeling for ORENCIA support use of ORENCIA for patients with moderate to severe
rheumatoid arthritis of less than or equal to two years duration. The efficacy and safety data further support use of ORENCIA in new-to-biologic patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis.          

In June 2009, we announced, at the Annual European Congress of Rheumatology (EULAR), the results of two studies that demonstrated the consistent
safety and effectiveness over five and seven years of treatment in rheumatoid arthritis patients who have had an inadequate response to methotrexate.         SPRYCEL       

In December 2009, at the 51   st    Annual Meeting of the American Society of Hematology, Phase II data on SPRYCEL was presented which suggested that
SPRYCEL could provide chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) patients with a more rapid, improved response than the currently-available first-line treatment, imatinib. Results from a Phase III head-to-head trial (called DASISION) of SPRYCEL and imatinib
mesylate in first-line treatment of CML are expected to be announced in the first half of 2010.          

In May 2009, at the American Society of Clinical Oncology annual meeting, we presented interim results from two Phase II SPRYCEL studies, which
demonstrate that SPRYCEL may have potential as a treatment for a castrate-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). A Phase III study of SPRYCEL in CRPC is currently ongoing.          

In May 2009, we announced that the FDA has granted full approval for SPRYCEL for the treatment of adults in all phases of CML (chronic, accelerated,
or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase) with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy including GLEEVEC* (imatinib mesylate).         REYATAZ       

In November 2009, we announced a U.S. labeling update for REYATAZ. The label for the medicine now includes long-term data from the CASTLE Study,
which showed that a once-daily regimen of REYATAZ and ritonavir   as part of combination therapy   in previously untreated adult patients infected with HIV-1 led to an enduring virologic response through 96 weeks of treatment.
        BARACLUDE       

In October 2009, at the 60   th    Annual Meeting of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, we announced 48-week data for BARACLUDE in
chronic hepatitis B patients with evidence of decompensated cirrhosis. In the patient population studied, BARACLUDE demonstrated greater viral suppression compared to adefovir.            
   41   

Table of Contents  

    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS       Our results of continuing operations exclude the results related to the Mead Johnson business prior to its split-off in December 2009, the ConvaTec business prior to its divestiture in August 2008, and
the Medical Imaging business prior to its divestiture in January 2008. These businesses have been segregated from continuing operations and included in discontinued operations for all years presented, see   Discontinued Operations 
below.      Our results of continuing operations were as follows:       
     Net Sales       The composition of the change in net sales was as follows:       
    In 2009, most of the key U.S. products contributed to the growth in net sales. PLAVIX* and
ABILIFY* represented 47% and 17% of total U.S. net sales and contributed 49% and 31% of total growth in U.S. net sales, respectively. In 2008, PLAVIX* and ABILIFY* represented 46% and 16% of total U.S. net sales and contributed 53% and 23% of total
growth in U.S. net sales, respectively.      International net sales decrease in 2009 and increase in 2008 were impacted by the
fluctuating value of the U.S. dollar against many foreign currencies when compared to the previous periods. Excluding foreign exchange, international net sales increased 3% in 2009 due to growth in various key products, including BARACLUDE, the HIV
portfolio, SPRYCEL, ABILIFY* and ORENCIA, which more than offset decreases in PLAVIX* net sales stemming from increased generic competition. Our reported international net sales do not include copromotion sales reported by our alliance partner,
sanofi for PLAVIX* and AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, which decreased in 2009 due to generic competition.      Net sales of mature brands and businesses that
were divested during 2007 through 2009 represented approximately 1% of total net sales. Further detail on both domestic and international key product net sales are discussed below.      In general, our business is not seasonal. For information on U.S. pharmaceutical prescriber demand, reference is made to the table within   Estimated End-User Demand 
below, which sets forth a comparison of changes in net sales to the estimated total prescription growth (for both retail and mail order customers) for certain of our key pharmaceutical and new products. The U.S. and non-U.S. net sales are
categorized based upon the location of the customer.      We recognize revenue net of various sales adjustments to arrive at net
sales as reported on the consolidated statements of earnings. These adjustments are referred to as gross-to-net sales adjustments and are further described in   Critical Accounting Policies  below.         
   42   

Table of Contents  

   The reconciliation of our gross sales to net sales by each significant category of gross-to-net sales
adjustments were as follows:       
    The gross-to-net sales adjustments are primarily a function of gross sales and activity is typically
correlated with current sales trends as is managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts, Medicaid rebates, cash discounts and other adjustments. Managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts and Medicaid rebates are also
affected by changes in sales mix and contractual and legislative discount rates.      In 2009, gross-to-net sales adjustments
increased by 6%. Managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts increased by 22% primarily due to higher PLAVIX* Medicare sales and an increase in contractual discount rates. Sales returns decreased by 38% primarily due to lower provisions
for PRAVACHOL and ZERIT, partially offset by increased provisions for SPRYCEL and mature brands driven by higher than anticipated sales returns.      In 2008, the increase in the gross-to-net sales adjustments is attributed to increased provisions for PRAVACHOL, driven by higher sales returns than previously estimated and for ZERIT due to loss of
exclusivity.      The activities and ending balances of each significant category of gross-to-net sales reserve adjustments were as follows:
      
    In 2009, the Center for Medicare and Medicaid Services policy group approved our revised calculations for
determining the Medicaid rebates for the three year period 2002 to 2004. The impact of the revised calculation was a net overpayment of Medicaid rebates of $60 million.      The 2008 increase in sales returns is primarily attributed to increased provisions for PRAVACHOL, driven by higher retail sales returns than previously assumed, and the loss of exclusivity for ZERIT.
        
   43   

Table of Contents  

   Net sales of key products represent 81% of total net sales in 2009, 77% in 2008 and 71% in
2007. The following table details U.S. and international net sales by key products, the percentage change from the prior period and the foreign exchange impact when compared to the prior period. Commentary detailing the reasons for significant
variances for key products is provided below:       

44   

Table of Contents  

   PLAVIX* - a platelet aggregation inhibitor that is part of our alliance with sanofi       

International net sales decreased in 2009 and 2008 due to the launch of alternative salt forms of clopidogrel and/or generic clopidogrel bisulfate
in over half of the EU countries since August 2008, with additional launches expected through 2010. Given the wide-spread launch of alternative salt forms and generics, we expect continued erosion of sales in the EU which will impact both our
international net sales and our equity in net income of affiliates.          

See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 24. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies PLAVIX* Litigation,  for further discussion on
PLAVIX* exclusivity litigation in both the U.S. and EU.         AVAPRO*/AVALIDE *  (known in the EU as APROVEL*/KARVEA*) - an angiotensin II receptor blocker for the treatment of hypertension and diabetic nephropathy that is also part of the sanofi alliance       

U.S. net sales decreased in 2009 primarily due to a 9% decrease in estimated total U.S. prescription demand partially offset by higher average net
selling prices. International net sales increased primarily due to higher average net selling prices partially offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange impact.          

In 2008, worldwide net sales increased primarily due to higher average net selling prices which more than offset decline in overall demand.
Estimated total U.S. prescription demand decreased approximately 7%.         REYATAZ - a protease inhibitor for the treatment of
HIV       

U.S. net sales increased primarily due to higher estimated total U.S. prescription demand of 8% in 2009 and 14% in 2008, and higher average net
selling prices.          

In 2009 and 2008, international net sales increased primarily due to higher demand across most markets with Europe being the key driver due to the
June 2008 approval for first-line treatment.         SUSTIVA Franchise - a
non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor for the treatment of HIV, which includes SUSTIVA, an antiretroviral drug, and bulk efavirenz, which is also included in the combination therapy, ATRIPLA* (efavirenz 600mg/emtricitabine 200 mg/tenofovir
disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a product sold through a joint venture with Gilead.       

In 2009 and 2008, international net sales increased despite an unfavorable foreign exchange impact in 2009 primarily due to continued demand generated
from the launch of ATRIPLA* in Canada and the EU in the fourth quarter of 2007.         BARACLUDE - an oral
antiviral agent for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B       

Worldwide net sales in 2009 and 2008 increased primarily due to continued strong growth in international markets.          

There continues to be increased awareness and acceptance of its long-term efficacy, safety and resistance data as evidenced by the American Association
for the Study of Liver Disease treatment guidelines that recommended BARACLUDE as a first line treatment option.         ERBITUX* - a monoclonal antibody designed to exclusively target and block the Epidermal Growth Factor Receptor, which is expressed on the surface of certain cancer cells in multiple tumor types as well as
normal cells and is currently indicated for use against colorectal cancer and head and neck cancer. ERBITUX* is part of our strategic alliance with Lilly.       

Sold by us almost exclusively in the U.S., the net sales in 2009 decreased primarily due to study results released in 2008 regarding the impact of
the K-ras gene expression on the effectiveness in patients with colorectal cancer.          

Sales increase in 2008 is attributable to increased demand for a 2008 indication for usage in the treatment of head and neck cancer.
        SPRYCEL - an oral inhibitor of multiple tyrosine kinases, for the treatment
of adults with chronic, accelerated, or myeloid or lymphoid blast phase chronic myeloid leukemia with resistance or intolerance to prior therapy, including GLEEVEC*, which is part of our strategic alliance with Otsuka.       

Worldwide net sales increased primarily due to higher demand in previously launched markets, growth attributed to recently launched markets as well as
higher U.S. average net selling prices.            
   45   

Table of Contents  

   IXEMPRA - a microtubule inhibitor for the treatment of
patients with metastatic or locally advanced breast cancer and is part of our strategic alliance with Otsuka       
    ABILIFY* - an antipsychotic agent for the treatment of schizophrenia, bipolar mania disorder and major
depressive disorder and is part of our strategic alliance with Otsuka       

U.S. net sales increased primarily due to increased overall demand, new indications for certain patients with bipolar 1 disorder and major
depressive disorder, and higher average net selling prices. The 2009 increase was partially offset by $49 million of amortization of the $400 million extension payment made to Otsuka in April 2009. Estimated total U.S. prescription demand increased
26% in 2009 and 23% in 2008.          

In 2009 and 2008, international net sales increased due to increased prescription demand, which was aided by a new bipolar indication in the second
quarter of 2008 in the EU offset by an unfavorable foreign exchange impact in 2009.         ORENCIA - a fusion protein indicated for adult patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response to one or more currently available treatments, such as methotrexate or anti-tumor necrosis factor
therapy       

In 2009, worldwide net sales increased primarily due to increased demand.          

In 2008, the U.S. net sales increase was primarily due to continued demand growth. The international net sales increase reflected the May 2007
product launch in Europe.         ONGLYZA - once-daily oral tablet for the treatment of type 2 diabetes   

ONGLYZA has been submitted to regulatory authorities in more than 50 countries, approved in 36 and, beginning in the third quarter of 2009, launched
in six countries the U.S., Canada, Mexico, Germany, the UK and Denmark.         The estimated U.S.
prescription change data provided throughout this report includes information only from the retail and mail order channels and does not reflect information from other channels such as hospitals, home healthcare, clinics, federal facilities including
VA hospitals, and long-term care, among others.      In the first quarter of 2009, we changed our service provider for U.S.
prescription data to Wolters Kluwer Health, Inc. (WK), a supplier of market research audit data for the pharmaceutical industry, for external reporting purposes and internal demand for most products. Prior to 2009, we used prescription data based on
the Next-Generation Prescription Service Version 2.0 of the National Prescription Audit provided by IMS Health (IMS). We continuously seek to improve the quality of our estimates of prescription change amounts and ultimate patient/consumer demand by
reviewing estimate calculation methodologies, processes, and analyzing internal and third-party data. We expect to continue to review and refine our methodologies and processes for calculation of these estimates and will continue to review and
analyze our own and third parties  data used in such calculations.      The estimated prescription data is based on the
Source Prescription Audit provided by the above suppliers and is a product of their respective recordkeeping and projection processes. As such, the data is subject to the inherent limitations of estimates based on sampling and may include a margin
of error.      We calculated the estimated total U.S. prescription change on a weighted-average basis to reflect the fact that
mail order prescriptions include a greater volume of product supplied, compared to retail prescriptions. Mail order prescriptions typically reflect a 90-day prescription whereas retail prescriptions typically reflect a 30-day prescription. The
calculation is derived by multiplying mail order prescription data by a factor that approximates three and adding to this the retail prescriptions. We believe that a calculation of estimated total U.S. prescription change based on this
weighted-average approach provides a superior estimate of total prescription demand, with respect to retail and mail order channels. We use this methodology for our internal demand reporting.         
   46   

Table of Contents  

    Estimated End-User Demand       The following tables set forth for each of our key products sold in the U.S. for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: (i) total U.S. net sales for the year;
(ii) change in reported U.S. net sales for the year; (iii) estimated total U.S. prescription change for the retail and mail order channels calculated by us based on third-party data on a weighted-average basis, and (iv) months of
inventory on hand in the wholesale distribution channel.       

(a)  
  The SUSTIVA Franchise (total revenue) includes sales of SUSTIVA, as well as revenue of bulk efavirenz included in the combination therapy ATRIPLA*. The months on hand
relates only to SUSTIVA.     

(b)  
  ERBITUX*, IXEMPRA and ORENCIA are parenterally administered products and do not have prescription-level data as physicians do not write prescriptions for these
products.     

(d)  
  ONGLYZA was launched in the U.S. in August 2009. Month on hand ratio of 3.7 is estimated by dividing the estimated amount of the product in the U.S. wholesaler
distribution channel by the estimated amount of out-movement of the product from the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel over a period of 31 days.     
    Pursuant to the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Consent Order described below under   SEC Consent Order , we monitor the level of inventory on hand in the U.S. wholesaler distribution channel and outside of the
U.S. in the direct customer distribution channel. We are obligated to disclose products with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected demand, subject to a de minimis exception. We disclosed U.S. products that had estimated
levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand at December 31, 2009, and international products that had estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel in excess of one month on hand at
September 30, 2009. The following products met those criteria:      At December 31, 2009, ONGLYZA, a type 2 diabetes
product, had approximately 3.7 months of inventory on hand. The inventory level on hand was due to the product launch in August 2009.      At September 30, 2009, DAFALGAN, an analgesic product sold principally in Europe, had approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at direct customers compared to approximately 1.1 months of inventory on hand at December 31,
2008. The level of inventory on hand was primarily due to the ordering patterns of private pharmacists in France.      At
September 30, 2009, FERVEX, a cold and flu product had approximately 1.7 months of inventory on hand at direct customers compared to approximately 1.4 months of inventory on hand at December 31, 2008. The increased level of inventory on
hand was primarily due to the ordering patterns of private pharmacists in France and the initial stocking of a new distributor in Russia.      In the U.S., for all products sold exclusively through wholesalers or through distributors, we determined our months on hand estimates using information with respect to inventory levels of product on hand
and the amount of out-movement of products provided by our three largest wholesalers, which account for approximately 90% of total gross sales of U.S. products, and provided by our distributors. Factors that may influence our estimates include
generic competition, seasonality of products, wholesaler purchases in light of increases in wholesaler list prices, new product launches, new warehouse openings by wholesalers and new customer stockings by wholesalers. In addition, these estimates
are calculated using third-party data, which may be impacted by their recordkeeping processes.      For products in the U.S. that
are not sold exclusively through wholesalers or distributors and for our businesses outside of the U.S., we have significantly more direct customers. Limited information on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement
information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where available, varies widely. In cases where
        
   47   

Table of Contents  

direct customer product level inventory, ultimate patient/consumer demand or out-movement data does not exist or is otherwise not available, we have developed a variety of other methodologies to
calculate estimates of such data, including using such factors as historical sales made to direct customers and third-party market research data related to prescription trends and end-user demand. Accordingly, we rely on a variety of methods to
estimate direct customer product level inventory and to calculate months on hand for these business units. Factors that may affect our estimates include generic competition, seasonality of products, direct customer purchases in light of price
increases, new product or product presentation launches, new warehouse openings by direct customers, new customer stockings by direct customers and expected direct customer purchases for governmental bidding situations. As such, all of the
information required to estimate months on hand in the direct customer distribution channel for non-U.S. business for the year ended December 31, 2009 is not available prior to the filing of this annual report on Form 10-K. We will disclose any
product with levels of inventory in excess of one month on hand or expected demand, subject to a de minimis exception, in the next quarterly report on Form 10-Q.        Geographic Areas        In general, our products are available in most
countries in the world. The largest markets are in the U.S., France, Japan, Spain, Canada, Italy, Germany, China and Mexico. Our net sales by geographic areas, based on the location of the customer, were as follows:       
    Net sales in the U.S. increased in 2009 and 2008 primarily due to items previously discussed in
  Net Sales  above.      Net sales in Europe, Middle East and Africa decreased in 2009 primarily due to a 7%
unfavorable foreign exchange impact, decreased net sales of certain mature brands due to divestitures and increased generic competition for PLAVIX*, partially offset by sales growth in major European markets for the HIV portfolio, BARACLUDE,
ABILIFY*, SPRYCEL and ORENCIA. In 2008, net sales increased primarily due to sales growth in major European markets for SPRYCEL, ABILIFY* and the HIV hepatitis portfolio and a 6% favorable foreign exchange impact.      Net sales in the Other Western Hemisphere countries decreased in 2009 primarily due to a 9% unfavorable foreign exchange impact, partially
offset by increased net sales of PLAVIX*, AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, ORENCIA and SPRYCEL. In 2008, net sales were essentially flat with a minimum foreign exchange impact.      Net sales in the Pacific region decreased in 2009 primarily due to decreased net sales of certain mature brands due to divestitures, partially offset by increased net sales of BARACLUDE and SPRYCEL and 1%
favorable foreign exchange impact. In 2008, net sales increased primarily due to sales growth of BARACLUDE in China, Japan and Korea and a 6% favorable foreign exchange impact.      No single country outside the U.S. contributed more than 10% of our total net sales in 2009, 2008 or 2007. The combined net sales in emerging markets which includes Brazil, Russia,
India, China and Turkey approximated 4% of our total net sales in 2009 and 2008 and 3% in 2007.         
   48   

Table of Contents  

    Expenses        
     
     Cost of
products sold       Cost of products sold consist of material costs, internal labor and overhead of our owned manufacturing
sites, third-party processing costs, other supply chain costs and changes in foreign currency forward contracts that offset manufacturing related assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies. Essentially all of these costs are managed
primarily through our global manufacturing organization, referred to as Technical Operations. In addition, discovery royalties attributed to licensed products in connection with alliances as well as the amortization of milestone payments that occur
on or after regulatory approval are also included.      Costs as a percentage of net sales can vary between periods as a result of
product mix, inflation and costs attributed to the rationalization of manufacturing sites resulting in accelerated depreciation, impairment charges and other stranded costs. In addition, changes in foreign currency may also provide volatility given
a high percentage of total costs are denominated in foreign currencies.       

The improvement in cost of products sold as a percentage of net sales in 2009 was driven by favorable foreign exchange, higher U.S. average net
selling prices, a more favorable product mix and realized manufacturing efficiencies from PTI offset by higher manufacturing costs attributed to inflation. The 2009 costs include manufacturing rationalization charges of $123 million primarily
related to the implementation of PTI compared to $249 million of rationalization charges recognized in 2008.          

The improvement in costs of products sold as a percentage of net sales in 2008 was primarily attributed to a more favorable product sales mix,
higher U.S. average net selling prices, and realized manufacturing savings from PTI. These factors were partially offset by higher manufacturing costs attributed to inflation. The 2008 costs include manufacturing rationalization charges of $249
million primarily related to the implementation of PTI compared to $179 million of rationalization charges recognized in 2007.          Marketing, selling and administrative       Marketing, selling and administrative expenses consist of employee
salary and benefit costs, third-party professional and marketing fees, outsourcing fees, shipping and handling costs and other expenses that are not attributed to product manufacturing costs or research and development expenses. Most of these
expenses are managed through regional commercialization functions or global functions such as finance, law, information technology and human resources.       

The decrease in 2009 resulted from a favorable 2% foreign exchange impact and efficiencies gained from PTI.          

The increase in 2008 was primarily related to $109 million of process standardization costs incurred as part of PTI, higher average net selling
expenses in support of key products and an unfavorable 2% foreign exchange impact.          Advertising and product promotion
      Advertising and product promotion expenses consist of related media, sample and direct to consumer programs.       

The decrease in 2009 is attributed to reduced spending on promotion of products nearing patent expirations and a favorable 2% foreign exchange
impact, partially offset by increased spending for the ONGLYZA launch and pipeline products.          

The increase in 2008 was primarily related to increased promotions for new indications of ABILIFY* in the U.S., increased promotion for ORENCIA and
an unfavorable foreign exchange impact.            
   49   

Table of Contents  

    Research and development       Research and development expenses consist of internal salary and benefit costs, third-party grants and fees paid to clinical research organizations, supplies and facility costs.
These expenses also include third-party licensing fees that are typically paid upfront as well as when regulatory or other contractual milestones are met. Certain expenses are shared with alliance partners based upon contractual agreements.
     Approximately 85% of these expenses are managed by our global research and development organization. Historically,
approximately 75% of the total spend was attributed to development activities with the remainder attributed to preclinical and research activities. These expenses can vary between periods for a number of reasons, including the timing of upfront
licensing and milestone payments.       

The increase in 2009 was attributed to additional spending to support our maturing pipeline and compounds obtained from our string-of-pearls strategy,
offset by a favorable 1% foreign exchange impact.          

The increase in 2008 was primarily related to increased upfront licensing and milestone payments, increased spending for pipeline compounds, and an
unfavorable foreign exchange impact. The 2008 increase was partially offset by sharing of codevelopment costs with alliance partners AstraZeneca and Pfizer.          

Upfront licensing and milestone payments expensed to research and development were $347 million in 2009 primarily attributed to ZymoGenetics, Alder and
Nissan; $348 million in 2008 primarily attributed to Exelixis, PDL BioPharma, Inc. and KAI Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; and $162 million in 2007 primarily attributed to Exelixis, Pfizer, Adnexus Therapeutics, Inc. (Adnexus) and Isis Pharmaceuticals.

The 2009 acquisition of Medarex resulted in $40 million of additional spend.          Acquired in-process research and development       The charges related to the acquisition of Kosan Biosciences, Inc. (Kosan) in 2008 and the acquisition of Adnexus in 2007. In-process research and development (IPRD) projects acquired in a business
combination after January 1, 2009 are capitalized initially and considered indefinite-lived assets.       Provision for restructuring  
     The changes in provision for restructuring were primarily attributable to the timing of the worldwide implementation of PTI.
      Litigation expense       The 2009 expense was primarily due to a $125 million securities litigation settlement. For further information, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 24. Legal Proceedings and Contingencies.        Equity in net income of affiliates       Equity in net income of affiliates was primarily related to our international partnership with sanofi and varies based on international PLAVIX* net sales included within this partnership.       

The decrease in 2009 is attributed to the impact of an alternative salt form of clopidogrel and generic clopidogrel competition on international
PLAVIX* net sales commencing in 2009. This unfavorable trend in earnings is expected to continue in future periods as such generic products have been launched in over half of the EU countries since August 2008, with additional launches expected in
future years. For additional information, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.           Gain on sale of ImClone shares       The gain on sale of ImClone shares in 2008 was attributed to our receipt of
approximately $1.0 billion in cash for the tendering of our investment in ImClone. See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations  for further detail.         
   50   

Table of Contents  

    Other (income)/expense       Other (income)/expense include:       

Interest expense decreased primarily due to lower interest rates and amortization resulting from the termination of interest rate swaps during 2009 and
2008.          

Interest income decreased primarily due to lower interest rates in 2009 and 2008 partially offset by higher cash, cash equivalents and marketable
securities balances.          

Auction rate securities (ARS) impairment charges recognized in 2008 and 2007 were due to the severity and the duration of the decline in value, the
future prospects of the issuers and our ability and intent to hold the securities to recover their value. The value of ARS at December 31, 2009 was $88 million. Any future declines in fair value will be considered other than temporary and
therefore recognized in our results of operations.          

The impact of foreign exchange was mainly due to the sudden and dramatic strengthening of the U.S. dollar in the second half of 2008. This generated
significant gains on foreign currency dominated transactions recognized during 2008. To a lesser extent, earnings were impacted in all periods by foreign exchange hedges that were discontinued or did not qualify as cash flow hedges. See  Item
8. Financial Statements Note 22. Financial Instruments.           

Gain on sale of product lines, businesses and assets was primarily related to the sale of mature brands, including businesses within Indonesia and
Australia in 2009; a business in Egypt in 2008; and the sale of BUFFERIN* and EXCEDRIN* brands in Japan, Asia (excluding China) and certain Oceanic countries in 2007.          

Net royalty and alliance partners  activity includes income earned from the sanofi partnership and amortization of certain upfront licensing and
milestone payments related to our alliances.          

Pension settlements / curtailments were primarily attributed to amendments which will eliminate the crediting of future benefits related to service for
U.S. pension plan participants effective January 1, 2010. These amendments resulted in a curtailment charge of $25 million during 2009. The remainder of the charges resulted from the high level of lump sum payments in certain plans
which exceeded the threshold (sum of plan interest costs and service costs) that require settlement accounting, resulting in an acceleration of a portion of previously deferred actuarial losses. Although most of this activity was driven by PTI
and certain divestitures, additional charges may be recognized in the future, particularly with the U.S. pension plans due to a lower threshold resulting from the elimination of service costs. See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 19.
Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities  for further detail.          

Other includes gains and losses on the sale of property, plant and equipment, and ConvaTec and Medical Imaging net transitional service fees.
           
   51   

Table of Contents  

    Specified Items       During 2009, 2008 and 2007, the following specified items affected the comparability of results of the periods presented herein. These items are excluded from the segment results.       

52   

Table of Contents  

53   

Table of Contents  

    Non-GAAP Financial Measures       Our non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations and related EPS information, are adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains and losses
and other specified items. This information is intended to enhance an investor s overall understanding of our past financial performance and prospects for the future. For example, non-GAAP earnings and EPS information is an indication of our
baseline performance before items that are considered by us to not be reflective of our ongoing results. In addition, this information is among the primary indicators we use as a basis for evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting
incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting of future periods. This information is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted EPS prepared in accordance with GAAP.      Among the items in GAAP measures but excluded for purposes of determining adjusted earnings and other adjusted measures are: charges related
to implementation of the PTI; gains or losses from the purchase or sale of businesses, product lines or investments; discontinued operations; restructuring and other exit costs; accelerated depreciation charges; asset impairments; charges and
recoveries relating to significant legal proceedings; upfront licensing and milestone payments for in-licensing of products that have not achieved regulatory approval that are immediately expensed; IPRD charges prior to 2009; special initiative
funding to the Bristol-Myers Squibb Foundation; and significant tax events. For a detailed listing of items that are excluded from the non-GAAP earnings from continuing operations, see   Specified Items  above. Similar charges or
gains for some of these items have been recognized in prior periods and it is reasonably possible that they will reoccur in future periods.      A
reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP follows:       
     Segment Results       Segment results are consistent with the financial information regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker for purpose of
evaluating performance, allocating resources, setting compensation targets, and planning and forecasting future periods. Segment results exclude the impact of specified items which are significant and not indicative of current operating performance
or ongoing results. The following table reconciles our segment results to earnings from continuing operations before income taxes.       
    Earnings increased primarily due to increased net sales of various key products in 2009 and 2008;
more favorable gross margins due to price increases, product mix and realized efficiencies from previous PTI initiatives and more efficient spending within marketing, selling and administrative expense, partially offset by increased investments
within our research and development pipeline. The improved gross margin rate and efficiencies mentioned above resulted in an increase in segment results expressed as a percentage of net sales during the past two years.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

    Income Taxes       The effective income tax rate on earnings from continuing operations before income taxes was 21.1% in 2009, compared with 22.8% in 2008 and 18.7% in 2007. The effective income tax rate is lower than the
U.S. statutory rate of 35% due to our decision to permanently reinvest the earnings for certain of our manufacturing operations in Ireland, Puerto Rico and Switzerland offshore and the U.S. Federal research and development tax credit. For additional
information, see   Critical Accounting Policies  below and  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 10. Income Taxes.       The decrease in the 2009 effective tax rate from 2008 was primarily due to the unfavorable 2008 tax impact related to IPRD and ARS impairment charges and to a lesser extent, a higher benefit in 2009
related to certain contingent matters.      The increase in the 2008 effective tax rate from 2007 was primarily due to higher
pre-tax income in the U.S., including the gain on the sale of ImClone shares, and earnings mix in high tax jurisdictions in 2008. Partially offsetting these factors were lower nondeductible charges in 2008 for IPRD and lower ARS impairment charges
with little or no tax benefit. The tax rate in 2008 was favorably impacted by a benefit of $91 million of tax related to the final settlement of the 2002-2003 audit with the Internal Revenue Service (IRS).      The 2007 tax rate was unfavorably impacted by the impairment on our investment in certain ARS with little tax benefit and the nondeductible
write-off of IPRD related to the acquisition of Adnexus, partially offset by a tax benefit of $105 million in the first quarter of 2007 due to the favorable resolution of certain tax matters with the IRS related to the deductibility of litigation
settlement expenses and U.S foreign tax credits claimed.       Discontinued Operations       On December 23, 2009, we completed a split-off of our remaining interest in Mead Johnson by means of an exchange offer to BMS
shareholders. In August 2008, we completed the divestiture of our ConvaTec business to Cidron Healthcare Limited, an affiliate of Nordic Capital Fund VII and Avista Capital Partners L.P. (Avista).   In January 2008, we completed the divestiture
of Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging (Medical Imaging) to Avista. See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 7. Discontinued Operations.        Noncontrolling Interest       Noncontrolling interest is primarily related to
our partnerships with sanofi for the territory covering the Americas related to PLAVIX* net sales. See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.  The increase in noncontrolling interest corresponds to
increased net sales of PLAVIX* in the U.S. Net earnings from discontinued operations attributable to noncontrolling interest primarily relates to the 16.9% of Mead Johnson owned by the public prior to the split-off. A summary of noncontrolling
interest is as follows:       
       
   55   

Table of Contents  

    Financial Position, Liquidity and Capital Resources       We maintain a significant level of working capital, which was approximately $7.6 billion at December 31, 2009 and $8.0 billion at
December 31, 2008. In 2010 and future periods, we expect cash generated by our U.S. operations, together with existing cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and borrowings from the capital markets, to be sufficient to cover cash needs
for working capital, capital expenditures, strategic alliances and acquisitions, milestone payments and dividends paid in the U.S. Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, the conversion of other working capital items and borrowings are
expected to fund near-term operations outside the U.S. We believe that based on our current levels of cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and other financial assets and expected operating cash flows, the current downturn in global economic
activity will not have a material impact on our liquidity, cash flow, financial flexibility or our ability to fund our operations, including the dividend.      We have a $2.0 billion five year revolving credit facility from a syndicate of lenders maturing in December 2011, which is extendable with the consent of the lenders. The facility contains customary
terms and conditions, including a financial covenant whereby the ratio of consolidated net debt to consolidated capital cannot exceed 50% at the end of each quarter. We have been in compliance with this covenant since the inception of the facility.
There were no borrowings outstanding under the facility at December 31, 2009 and 2008.      Net cash position at December 31 was as
follows:       

Beginning with the second quarter of 2009, we diversified our investment portfolio and acquired non-current marketable securities, including
purchases of corporate debt securities. These investments are subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors, which may impact our results of operations. Our investment policy places limits on
these investments and the amount and time to maturity of investments with any institution. The policy also requires that investments are only made with highly rated corporate and financial institutions. See  Item 8. Financial
Statements Note 12. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities.       As an additional source of liquidity, we
sell trade accounts receivables, principally from non-U.S. governments and hospital customers, to third parties. The receivables are sold on a nonrecourse basis and approximated $660 million and $350 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our sales
agreements do not allow for recourse in the event of uncollectibility and we do not retain interest to the underlying asset once sold.      Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities held outside the U.S. was approximately $5.3 billion at December 31, 2009 which is either utilized to fund non-U.S. operations or repatriated back to the U.S. where taxes have been
previously provided. Cash repatriations are subject to restrictions in certain jurisdictions and may be subject to withholding and other taxes.       Credit Ratings       Moody s Investors Service (Moody s) long-term and short-term credit ratings are
currently A2 and Prime-1, respectively. Moody s revised our long-term credit outlook from negative to stable in August 2009. Standard   Poor s (S P) long-term and short-term credit ratings are currently A+ and A-1,
respectively. S P s long-term credit rating remains on stable outlook. Fitch Ratings (Fitch) long-term and short-term credit ratings are currently A+ and F1, respectively. Fitch s long-term credit rating remains on stable outlook. Our
credit ratings are considered investment grade. These ratings designate for long-term securities, that we have a low default risk but are somewhat susceptible to adverse effects of changes in circumstances and economic conditions and for short-term
obligations has the strongest capacity for timely repayment.         
   56   

Table of Contents  

    Cash Flows       The following is a discussion of cash flow activities at December 31:       
      Operating Activities
       Cash flows from operating activities represent the cash receipts and cash disbursements related to all of our
activities other than investing activities and financing activities. Operating cash flow is derived by adjusting net earnings for:       

Noncontrolling interest;          

Non-cash operating items such as depreciation and amortization, impairment charges and stock-based compensation charges;

Gains and losses attributed to investing and financing activities such as gains and losses on the sale of product lines and businesses; and

Changes in operating assets and liabilities which reflect timing differences between the receipt and payment of cash associated with transactions
and when they are recognized in results of operations.         The net impact of the changes in operating assets
and liabilities aggregated to a net cash inflow of $42 million during 2009, a cash inflow of $117 million during 2008 and a cash outflow of $7 million in 2007. These items included the impact of changes in receivables, inventories, deferred income,
accounts payable, income taxes receivable/payable and other operating assets and liabilities which are discussed in more detail below.      We continue to maximize our operating cash flows with our working capital initiative designed to continue to improve working capital items that are most directly affected by changes in sales volume, such as receivables, inventories and
accounts payable. Those improvements are being driven by several actions including additional factoring of non-US trade receivables, revised contractual payment terms with customers and vendors, enhanced collection processes and various supply chain
initiatives designed to optimize inventory levels. Progress in this area is monitored each period and is a component of our annual incentive plan. The following summarizes certain working capital components expressed as a percentage of trailing
twelve months  net sales. The December 31, 2008 amounts include Mead Johnson which was split-off on December 23, 2009.       
    During 2009, changes in operating assets and liabilities aggregated to a net cash inflow of $42
million including:       

Cash inflows from accounts payable ($472 million) primarily attributed to the timing of payments to vendors and alliances, as well as the impact of
the working capital initiative discussed above;          

Cash inflows from receivables ($227 million) primarily attributed to additional factoring of non-U.S. trade receivables in Japan and Spain;

Cash inflows from deferred income ($135 million) mainly due to the milestone payments received from Pfizer ($150 million) and AstraZeneca ($150
million), partially offset by amortization; and          

Cash outflows from other operating assets and liabilities ($932 million) primarily related to pension funding in excess of current year expense
($532 million), and a payment to Otsuka which is amortized as a reduction of net sales through the extension period ($400 million).            
   57   

Table of Contents  

   In 2008, changes in operating assets aggregated to a net cash inflow of $117 million including:   

Cash inflows from income tax payable/receivable ($371 million) which includes the impact of the receipt of a $432 million tax refund, including
interest, related to a prior year foreign tax credit carryback claim;          

Cash inflows from accounts payables ($253 million) which are primarily attributed to the timing of vendor and alliance payments;

Cash inflows from inventory ($130 million) which is primarily attributed to the utilization of inventories which were built up in the prior year for
new product launches and strategic builds for existing products launches including for new indications of ABILIFY*;          

Cash inflows from deferred income ($61 million) which are primarily due to receipt of upfront licensing and milestone payments from alliance
partners;          

Cash outflows from accounts receivables ($360 million) which are attributed to increased sales; and          

Cash outflows from other operating assets and liabilities ($338 million) which are primarily due to net litigation related payments ($190 million)
attributed to the settlement of certain pricing and sales litigation accrued in prior periods; pension funding in excess of current year expense ($120 million); and increase in non-current inventory ($112 million).         In 2007, changes in operating assets aggregated to a net cash outflow of $7 million including:       

Cash outflows from accounts receivable ($458 million) which are primarily attributed to increased sales;          

Cash outflows from U.S and foreign income taxes payable ($199 million) which are primarily attributed to tax payments which included settlement
payments associated with various tax issues for the 2002-2003 IRS audit;          

Cash inflows from deferred income ($454 million) which are primarily due to receipt of upfront licensing and milestone payments from alliance
partners including Pfizer and AstraZeneca;          

Cash inflows from accounts payables ($141 million) which included the impact of increased purchases of raw materials for planned inventory buildup;
and          

Cash inflows from other operating assets and liabilities ($109 million) which are primarily due to increases in accrued royalties attributed to
increased PLAVIX* net sales; and increases in accrued salaries and bonuses due to the timing of payments; partially offset by cash outflows primarily related to litigation related payments ($318 million) for the settlement of pricing and sales
litigation accrued in prior periods.           Investing Activities        Net cash used in investing activities was $4.4 billion in 2009 including:       

Acquisition of Medarex ($2.2 billion), net of cash acquired ($53 million);          

Net purchases of marketable securities ($1.4 billion);          

Mead Johnson cash included in split-off ($561 million); and          

Proceeds from the sale of businesses and other investments, including businesses within the Asia-Pacific region ($310 million) and Australia ($61
million); and proceeds from the sale of Genmab and Celldex securities ($42 million).         Net cash provided by investing
activities was $5.1 billion in 2008 including:       

Proceeds from the divestiture of ConvaTec ($4.1 billion) and Medical Imaging ($483 million);          

Proceeds from the tendering of our shares in ImClone ($1.0 billion);          

Proceeds from the sale and leaseback of the Paris, France facility ($227 million);          

Proceeds from the sale of businesses, including mature brands business in Egypt ($209 million);          

Capital expenditures ($941 million) which included expenditures associated with the construction of our biologic facility in Devens, Massachusetts;
and          

58   

Table of Contents  

   Net cash used in investing activities was $202 million in 2007 including:       

Acquisition of Adnexus ($432 million);          

Net proceeds from the sale of marketable securities ($756 million); and          

Proceeds from the sales of the BUFFERIN* and EXCEDRIN* brands in Japan, Asia (excluding China and Taiwan) and certain Oceanic countries and U.S.
dermatology products ($273 million).           Financing Activities        Net cash used in financing activities was $17 million in 2009 including:       

Dividend payments ($2.5 billion);          

Repayment of Mead Johnson revolving credit facility ($80 million) and the early extinguishment of certain debt securities ($132 million);

Net proceeds from the issuance of Mead Johnson Notes ($1.5 billion) and revolving credit facility ($200 million);          

Net proceeds from the Mead Johnson IPO ($782 million);          

Net proceeds from the termination of interest rate swap agreements ($194 million); and          

Net proceeds from the exercise of stock options ($45 million).         Net cash used in financing activities was $2.6 billion in 2008 including:       

Dividend payments ($2.5 billion);          

Redemption of Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2023 ($1.2 billion);          

Repurchase of some of our Notes ($228 million);          

Net proceeds from the termination of interest rate swap agreements ($211 million); and          

Net proceeds from stock option exercises in 2008 ($5 million) reflects the exercise of fewer stock options in 2008 due to the decrease in the
average stock price when compared to the prior periods.         Net cash used in financing activities was $3.2 billion in 2007
including:       

Dividend payments ($2.2 billion);          

Repayment of the floating rate bank facility ($1.3 billion); and          

Proceeds from the exercise of stock options ($333 million).         Dividends declared per common share were $1.25 for 2009, $1.24 for 2008 and $1.15 for 2007. In December 2009, we declared a quarterly dividend of $0.32 per common share and expect to
pay a dividend for the full year of 2010 of $1.28 per share. Dividend decisions are made on a quarterly basis by our Board of Directors.         
   59   

Table of Contents  

    Contractual Obligations       Payments due by period for our contractual obligations at December 31, 2009 were as follows:       

(a)  
    The current portion of long-term debt obligations is included in short-term borrowings and all balances approximate the outstanding nominal
long-term debt values.      

(b)  
    Includes estimated future interest payments on our short-term and long-term debt securities. Also includes accrued interest payable recognized on
our consolidated balance sheets, which consists primarily of the accrual of interest on short-term and long-term debt as well as the accrual of periodic cash settlements of derivatives, netted by counterparty.      

(c)  
    Due to the uncertainty related to the timing of the reversal of uncertain tax positions, only the short-term uncertain tax benefits have been
provided in the table above. See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 10. Income Taxes  for further detail.      

(d)  
    The table above excludes future contributions by us to our pensions, postretirement and postemployment benefit plans. Required contributions are
contingent upon numerous factors including minimum regulatory funding requirements and the funded status of each plan. Due to the uncertainty of such future obligations, they are excluded from the table. Contributions for both U.S. and international
plans are expected to be up to $430 million in 2010. See  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 19. Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities  for further detail.         In addition to the above, we are committed to approximately $5.0 billion (in the aggregate) of potential future research and development
milestone payments to third parties as part of in-licensing and development programs. Early stage milestones, defined as milestones achieved through Phase III clinical trials, comprises $1.0 billion of the total committed amount. Late stage
milestones, defined as milestones achieved post Phase III clinical trials, comprises $4.0 billion of the total committed amount. Payments under these agreements generally are due and payable only upon achievement of certain developmental and
regulatory milestones, for which the specific timing cannot be predicted. Because the achievement of these milestones is neither probable nor reasonably estimable, such contingencies have not been recognized. In addition to certain royalty
obligations that are calculated as a percentage of net sales, some of these agreements also provide for sales-based milestones that aggregate to approximately $1.6 billion that we would be obligated to pay to alliance partners upon achievement of
certain sales levels.      For a discussion of contractual obligations, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 19.
Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities,    Note 21. Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt,    Note 22. Financial Instruments  and   Note 23. Leases.        SEC Consent Order       As
previously disclosed, on August 4, 2004, we entered into a final settlement with the SEC, concluding an investigation concerning certain wholesaler inventory and accounting matters. The settlement was reached through a Consent, a copy of which
was attached as Exhibit 10 to our quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended September 30, 2004.      Under the terms
of the Consent, we agreed, subject to certain defined exceptions, to limit sales of all products sold to our direct customers (including wholesalers, distributors, hospitals, retail outlets, pharmacies and government purchasers) based on expected
demand or on amounts that do not exceed approximately one month of inventory on hand, without making a timely public disclosure of any change in practice. We also agreed in the Consent to certain measures that we have implemented including:
(a) establishing a formal review and certification process of our annual and quarterly reports filed with the SEC; (b) establishing a business risk and disclosure group; (c) retaining an outside consultant to comprehensively study and
help re-engineer our accounting and financial reporting processes; (d) publicly disclosing any sales incentives offered to direct customers for the purpose of inducing them to purchase products in excess of expected demand; and
(e) ensuring that our budget process gives appropriate weight to inputs that comes from the bottom to the top, and not just from the top to the bottom, and adequately documenting that process.      We have established a company-wide policy to limit our sales to direct customers for the purpose of complying with the Consent. This
policy includes the adoption of various procedures to monitor and limit sales to direct customers in accordance with the terms of the Consent. These procedures include a governance process to escalate to appropriate management levels potential
questions or concerns regarding compliance with the policy and timely resolution of such questions or concerns. In addition, compliance with the policy is monitored on a regular basis.         
   60   

Table of Contents  

   We maintain Inventory Management Agreements (IMAs) with our U.S. pharmaceutical wholesalers,
which account for nearly 100% of total gross sales of U.S. biopharmaceuticals products. Under the current terms of the IMAs, our three largest wholesaler customers provide us with weekly information with respect to months on hand product-level
inventories and the amount of out-movement of products. These three wholesalers currently account for approximately 90% of total gross sales of U.S. BioPharmaceuticals products. The inventory information received from these wholesalers, together
with our internal information, is used to estimate months on hand product level inventories at these wholesalers. We estimate months on hand product inventory levels for our U.S. BioPharmaceuticals business s wholesaler customers other than the
three largest wholesalers by extrapolating from the months on hand calculated for the three largest wholesalers. In contrast, for our biopharmaceuticals business outside of the U.S., we have significantly more direct customers, limited information
on direct customer product level inventory and corresponding out-movement information and the reliability of third-party demand information, where available, varies widely. Accordingly, we rely on a variety of methods to estimate months on hand
product level inventories for these business units.      We believe the above-described procedures provide a reasonable basis to
ensure compliance with the Consent.       Recently Issued Accounting Standards       The following new accounting standards are discussed in  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 1. Accounting Policies Recently Issued Accounting Standards :       

ASU No. 2009-13,  Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements, a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force,  an amendment to ASC
605.25 (formerly   Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 08-01,  Revenue Arrangements with Multiple Deliverables ) was issued in October 2009 and is effective for reporting periods beginning on or after June 15, 2010.

ASC 105 (formerly Statement of Financial Standards (SFAS) No. 168,  The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ) was issued
in July 2009 and was effective and adopted by us on September 15, 2009.          

ASC 820-10,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures  (formerly SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements ) was adopted by us for
non-financial assets and liabilities on January 1, 2009.          

ASC 810-10-65-1,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 ( formerly SFAS
No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51)  was adopted by us on January 1, 2009 .           

ASC 808-10,  Collaborative Arrangements  (formerly EITF Issue No. 07-1,  Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements Related to the
Development and Commercialization of Intellectual Property)  was effective January 1, 2009 and was applied retroactively.          Critical Accounting Policies       We prepare our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the U.S. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires the use of estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities,
including disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities, at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Our critical accounting policies are those that are both most
important to our financial condition and results of operations and require the most difficult, subjective or complex judgments on the part of management in their application, often as a result of the need to make estimates about the effect of
matters that are inherently uncertain. Because of the uncertainty of factors surrounding the estimates or judgments used in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, actual results may vary from these estimates. These accounting
policies were discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.         
   61   

Table of Contents  

     Revenue Recognition        Our accounting policy for revenue recognition has a substantial impact on reported results and relies on certain estimates that require difficult, subjective and complex judgments on
the part of management. We recognize revenue when title and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, which generally occurs on the date of shipment (net of the gross-to-net sales adjustments discussed
below, all of which involve significant estimates and judgments).      For discussions on revenue recognition, see  Item 8.
Financial Statements Note 1. Accounting Policies Revenue Recognition  and   Sales Rebate and Return Accruals.         Gross-to-Net Sales Adjustments        We have the following significant categories of gross-to-net sales
adjustments: prime vendor charge-backs, managed healthcare rebates and other contractual discounts, Medicaid rebates, cash discounts, sales returns and other adjustments, all of which involve significant estimates and judgments and require us to use
information from external sources. See   Net Sales  above for a reconciliation of our gross sales to net sales by each significant category of gross-to-net sales adjustment.        Prime vendor charge-backs        Our U.S. businesses participate in prime vendor programs with government entities, the most significant of which are the U.S. Department of Defense and the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs, and other parties whereby pricing on products
is extended below wholesaler list price to participating entities. These entities purchase products through wholesalers at the lower prime vendor price and the wholesalers then charge us the difference between their acquisition cost and the lower
prime vendor price. We account for prime vendor charge-backs by reducing accounts receivable in an amount equal to our estimate of charge-back claims attributable to a sale. We determine our estimate of the prime vendor charge-backs primarily based
on historical experience regarding prime vendor charge-backs and current contract prices under the prime vendor programs. We consider prime vendor payments, levels of inventory in the distribution channel, and our claim processing time lag and
adjust the reduction to accounts receivable periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.        Cash discounts   
     In the U.S. and certain other countries, we offer cash discounts, approximating 2% of the sales price, as an incentive for
prompt payment. We account for cash discounts by reducing accounts receivable by the full amount of the discounts. We consider payment performance and adjust the accrual to reflect actual experience.        Managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts        We offer rebates and discounts to managed healthcare organizations in the U.S. which manage prescription drug programs and Medicare Advantage prescription drug plans covering the Medicare Part D drug
benefit in addition to their commercial plans, as well as globally to other contract counterparties such as hospitals and group purchasing organizations. In addition, we accrue rebates under U.S. Department of Defense TRICARE Retail Pharmacy Refund
Program. We account for managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to our estimate of managed healthcare rebates and other contractual discounts attributable to a sale. We determine our
estimate of the managed healthcare rebates and other contractual discounts accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding these rebates and discounts and current contract prices. We consider the sales performance of products subject to
managed healthcare rebates and other contract discounts and levels of inventory in the distribution channel and adjust the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.        Medicaid rebates        Our U.S. businesses participate in state government-managed Medicaid programs as well as certain other qualifying Federal and state government programs whereby discounts and rebates are provided to participating state and local government
entities. Discounts and rebates provided through these latter programs are included in our Medicaid rebate accrual and are considered Medicaid rebates for the purposes of this discussion. We account for Medicaid rebates by establishing an accrual in
an amount equal to our estimate of Medicaid rebate claims attributable to a sale. We determine our estimate of the Medicaid rebates accrual primarily based on historical experience regarding Medicaid rebates, as well as any expansion on a
prospective basis of our participation in the non-mandatory aspects of the qualifying Federal and state government programs, legal interpretations of applicable laws related to Medicaid and qualifying Federal and state government programs, and any
new information regarding changes in the Medicaid programs  regulations and guidelines that would impact the amount of the rebates. We consider outstanding Medicaid claims, Medicaid payments, and levels of inventory in the distribution channel
and adjust the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.         
   62   

Table of Contents  

     Sales returns        We account for sales returns by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to our estimate of sales recognized for which the related products are expected to be returned.      For returns of established products, we determine our estimate of the sales return accrual primarily based on historical experience
regarding sales returns, but also consider other factors that could impact sales returns. These factors include levels of inventory in the distribution channel, estimated shelf life, product recalls, product discontinuances, price changes of
competitive products, introductions of generic products and introductions of competitive new products. We consider all of these factors and adjust the accrual periodically throughout each quarter to reflect actual experience.      In the event of a product recall or product discontinuance, we consider the reasons for and impact of such actions and adjust the sales
return accrual as appropriate, taking into account historical experience, estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and, for product discontinuances, estimates of continuing demand.      Sales returns accruals from new products are estimated and primarily based on the historical sales returns experience of similar products,
such as those within the same line of product or those within the same or similar therapeutic category. In limited circumstances, where the new product is not an extension of an existing line of product or where we have no historical experience with
products in a similar therapeutic category, such that we cannot reliably estimate expected returns of the new product, we defer recognition of revenue until the right of return no longer exists or until we have developed sufficient historical
experience to estimate sales returns. We also consider the shelf life of new products and determine whether an adjustment to the sales return accrual is appropriate. The shelf life in connection with new products tends to be shorter than the shelf
life for more established products because we may still be developing an optimal manufacturing process for the new product that would lengthen its shelf life. In addition, higher launch quantities may have been manufactured in advance of the launch
date to ensure sufficient supply exists to satisfy market demand. In those cases, we assess the reduced shelf life, together with estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel and projected demand, and determine whether an adjustment to
the sales return accrual is appropriate.        Other adjustments        In addition to the gross-to-net sales adjustments described above, we make other gross-to-net sales adjustments. For example, we offer sales discounts, most significantly in non-U.S.
businesses, and also offer consumer coupons and rebates in our U.S. business. In addition, in a number of countries outside the U.S., including certain major European countries, we provide rebates to government entities. We generally account for
these other gross-to-net sales adjustments by establishing an accrual in an amount equal to our estimate of the adjustments attributable to a sale. We generally determine our estimates of the accruals for these other gross-to-net sales adjustments
primarily based on historical experience, performance on commitments to government entities and other relevant factors, including estimated levels of inventory in the distribution channel, and adjust the accruals periodically throughout each quarter
to reflect actual experience.        Use of information from external sources        We use information from external sources to estimate gross-to-net sales adjustments. Our estimate of inventory at the wholesalers are based on the projected prescription demand-based
sales for our products and historical inventory experience, as well as our analysis of third-party information, including written and oral information obtained from certain wholesalers with respect to their inventory levels and sell-through to
customers and third-party market research data, and our internal information. The inventory information received from wholesalers is a product of their recordkeeping process and excludes inventory held by intermediaries to whom they sell, such as
retailers and hospitals.      Effective January 1, 2009, we changed our service provider for U.S. prescription data to WK, a
supplier of market research audit data to the pharmaceutical industry, to project the prescription demand-based sales for many U.S. biopharmaceutical products. Prior to 2009, we used prescription data based on the Next-Generation Prescription
Service Version 2.0 of the National Prescription Audit provided by IMS.      We have also continued the practice of combining
retail and mail prescription volume on a retail-equivalent basis. We use this methodology for internal demand forecasts. We also use information from external sources to identify prescription trends, patient demand and average selling prices. Our
estimates are subject to inherent limitations of estimates that rely on third-party information, as certain third-party information was itself in the form of estimates, and reflect other limitations including lags between the date as of which
third-party information is generated and the date on which we receive third-party information.         
   63   

Table of Contents  

     Retirement Benefits        Our pension plans and postretirement benefit plans are accounted for using actuarial valuations. Our key assumptions used in calculating the cost of pension benefits are the discount
rate and the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. In consultation with our actuaries, we evaluate and select these key assumptions and others used in calculating the cost of pension benefits, such as salary growth, retirement, turnover,
healthcare trends and mortality rates, based on expectations or actual experience, as appropriate, and determine such assumptions during each remeasurement date including December 31 of each year to calculate liability information as of that
date and pension expense for the following year. Depending on the assumptions used, the pension expense could vary within a range of outcomes and have a material effect on reported earnings, projected benefit obligations and future cash funding.
Actual results in any given year may differ from those estimated because of economic and other factors.      In determining the
discount rate, we use the yield on high quality corporate bonds that coincides with the cash flows of the plans  estimated payouts. The Citigroup Pension Discount curve is used in determining the discount rate for the U.S. plans. The U.S.
plans  pension expense for 2009 was determined using a 7.25% weighted-average discount rate. The present value of benefit obligations at December 31, 2009 for the U.S. plans was determined using a 5.75% discount rate. If the discount rate
used in determining the U.S. plans  pension expense for 2009 had been reduced by 1.00%, such expense would have increased by approximately $40 million. If the assumed discount rate used in determining the projected benefit obligation at
December 31, 2009 had been reduced by 1.00%, the projected benefit obligation would have increased by approximately $600 million.      In determining the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we estimate returns for individual asset classes with input from external advisors. We also consider long-term historical returns including actual performance compared to
benchmarks for similar investments. The U.S. plans  pension expense for 2009 was determined using an 8.75% expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. If the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets used in determining the U.S.
plans  pension expense for 2009 had been reduced by 1%, such expense would have increased by $40 million.      For a more
detailed discussion on retirement benefits, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 19. Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment Liabilities.         Business Combinations        The consolidated financial statements reflect
an acquired business after the completion of an acquisition. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the
net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill.      When determining the fair value of intangible assets, including IPRD, we
typically use the  income method.  This method starts with a forecast of all of the expected future net cash flows. These cash flows are then adjusted to present value by applying an appropriate discount rate that reflects the risk factors
associated with the cash flow streams. Some of the more significant estimates and assumptions inherent in the income method or other methods include: the amount and timing of projected future cash flows; the amount and timing of projected costs to
develop the IPRD into commercially viable products; the discount rate selected to measure the risks inherent in the future cash flows; the assessment of the asset s life cycle and the competitive trends impacting the asset, including
consideration of any technical, legal, regulatory, or economic barriers to entry, as well as expected changes in standards of practice for indications addressed by the asset.      As of January 1, 2009, acquired IPRD projects are initially capitalized and considered indefinite-lived assets subject to annual impairment reviews or more often upon the
occurrence of certain events. For those compounds that reach commercialization, the assets are amortized over the expected useful lives. Prior to January 1, 2009, amounts allocated to acquired IPRD were expensed at the date of acquisition.
     Determining the useful life of an intangible asset is based upon the period over which it is expected to contribute to future
cash flows. All pertinent matters associated with the asset and the environment for which it operates are considered, including, legal, regulatory or contractual provisions as well as the effects of any obsolescence, demand, competition, and other
economic factors.         
   64   

Table of Contents  

     Medarex, Inc. Acquisition        On September 1, 2009, we acquired the remaining outstanding shares of Medarex not already owned by us for approximately $2.3 billion providing us with full rights to ipilimumab
and increasing our biologics development pipeline, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 5. Medarex, Inc. Acquisition.  Medarex is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of fully human
antibody-based therapeutic products to address major unmet healthcare needs in the areas of oncology, inflammation, autoimmune disorders and infectious diseases.      Approximately $1.9 billion of the purchase price was allocated to the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets including IPRD projects of approximately $1.5 billion and developed technology
of $435 million. For those compounds that reach commercialization, the assets are amortized over the expected useful lives.      The fair value of IPRD included approximately $1.0 billion that was assigned to ipilimumab which is a fully human antibody currently in Phase III development for the treatment of metastatic melanoma. There is also an ongoing ipilimumab
Phase II study in lung cancer as well as Phase III studies in adjuvant melanoma and hormone-refractory prostate cancer. The overall development effort is estimated to be in the range of 50% to 70% complete. The projected cost to complete these
development efforts range from $250 million to $400 million as of the acquisition date. The fair value of ipilimumab was determined from a market participant view considering the preexisting terms of the collaboration arrangement with BMS, including
cost and profit sharing splits. The project s unit of account was a global view. Significant delays in obtaining marketing approval for ipilimumab or the inability to bring ipilimumab to market could result in such IPRD to be partially or fully
impaired. The remaining IPRD was assigned to four other projects that were in Phase II development and 13 other projects at various stages of development that were generated from Medarex technology and are being developed through licensing partners
that may generate milestone payments and royalties upon commercialization.      Significant judgment was applied in developing the
projected cash flows, including the relative timing and probability of the assumed regulatory approvals. The projected cash flows assumed initial positive cash flows to commence shortly after the receipt of expected regulatory approvals, subject to
trial results among other things, which, if approved, could potentially be as early as 2011 or 2012. The projected cash flows were discounted at 12%. Actual cash flows attributed to the project are likely to be different than assumed. Ultimate
realization of the IPRD project will depend upon successful regulatory approvals, if received, and market factors of a typical biopharmaceutical product.      Developed technology was attributed to three separate license arrangements that have received regulatory approval and technology platforms that produce high affinity, fully human antibodies for use in a
broad range of therapeutic areas, including immunology and oncology. The fair value for the license arrangements was $315 million which was determined based on the present value of projected royalty streams beginning in 2010 through 2023. The fair
value of the technology platforms was $120 million which was determined based upon the expected annual number of antibodies achieving an early candidate nomination status. Developed technology will be amortized over the expected useful lives of 13
years for license arrangements and 10 years for the technology platforms.        Impairment          Goodwill        Goodwill is
tested at least annually for impairment using a two-step process. The first step is to identify a potential impairment, and the second step measures the amount of the impairment loss, if any. Goodwill is considered impaired if the carrying amount of
a reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. Based upon our most recent annual impairment test completed during the first quarter of 2009, the fair value of goodwill is substantially in excess of the related carrying value.
     For discussion on goodwill, acquired in-process research and development and other intangible assets, see  Item 8.
Financial Statements Note 1. Accounting Policies Goodwill, Acquired In-Process Research and Development and Other Intangible Assets.         Indefinite-Lived Intangible Assets, including IPRD        Indefinite-lived intangible assets not subject to
amortization are tested for impairment annually, or more frequently, if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. We consider various factors including the stage of development, current legal and regulatory
environment and the competitive landscape. Considering the industry s success rate of bringing developmental compounds to market, IPRD impairment charges may occur in future periods.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

     Fixed Assets        We periodically evaluate whether current facts or circumstances indicate that the carrying value of our depreciable assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are determined
to exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows produced by the long-lived asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is compared to the carrying value to determine whether impairment exists. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the
loss is measured based on the difference between the asset s fair value and its carrying value. An estimate of the asset s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available. If quoted market prices are not
available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques, including a discounted value of estimated future cash flows. We report an asset to be disposed of at the lower of its carrying value or its estimated net realizable
value.      The estimates of future cash flows are based on reasonable and supportable assumptions and projections requiring
judgment. Changes in key assumptions about our businesses and their prospects, or changes in market conditions, could result in impairment charges.      Impairment charges of long-lived assets were $3 million in 2009, $63 million in 2008 and $104 million in 2007. For discussion on impairment of long-lived assets, see  Item 8. Financial
Statements Note 1. Accounting Policies Impairment of Long-Lived Assets.         Marketable Securities and Investments in Other
Companies        Our marketable securities are classified as  available for sale  and therefore reported at fair
value with changes in fair value reported as accumulated other comprehensive income. Declines in fair value considered other than temporary are charged to earnings. Fair value is determined based on observable market quotes or valuation models using
assessments of counterparty credit worthiness, credit default risk or underlying security and overall capital market liquidity. When determining if a security is other-than-temporarily impaired we typically consider the severity and duration of the
decline, future prospects of the issuer and our ability and intent to hold the security to recovery. Declines in fair value determined to be credit related are charged to earnings. An average cost method is used in determining realized gains and
losses on the sale of  available for sale  securities. Realized gains and losses are included in other (income)/expense.      For level 3 investments, including FRS and ARS, we utilize valuation models including those that are based on expected cash flow streams and collateral values, including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk underlying
the security, discount rates and overall capital market liquidity. The valuation is subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict and utilize a considerable amount of judgment and estimation. Factors that may impact our valuation include
changes to credit ratings of the securities as well as to the underlying assets supporting those securities, rates of default of the underlying assets, underlying collateral value, discount rates, counterparty risk and ongoing strength and quality
of market credit and liquidity.      For discussions on current and non-current marketable securities, FRS and ARS, see  Item
8. Financial Statements Note 11. Fair Value Measurement  and   Note 12. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable Securities.       We account for 50% or less owned companies over which we have the ability to exercise significant influence using the equity method of accounting. Our share of net income or losses of equity investments
is included in equity in net income of affiliates in the consolidated statements of earnings. For investments whose fair market value falls below its carrying value we assess if the decline is other than temporary and consider our intent and ability
to hold investments, the market price and market price fluctuations of the investment s publicly traded shares and inability of the investee to sustain an earnings capacity. Impairment losses are recognized in other (income)/expense when a
decline in market value is deemed to be other than temporary.      For discussions on marketable securities and investments in
other companies, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 1. Accounting Policies Marketable Securities and Investments in Other Companies  and   Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.         Restructuring        Restructuring charges were recognized as a result of our actions to streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facilities. Significant judgment is used when estimating the impact of restructuring plans, including future termination
benefits and other exit costs to be incurred when the actions take place. Actual results could vary from these estimates.      For
detailed discussions on restructuring, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 1. Accounting Policies Restructuring  and   Note 4. Restructuring.          
   66   

Table of Contents  

     Contingencies        In the normal course of business, we are subject to contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of our business, that cover a wide range of matters, including, among others, government
investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product and environmental liability, and tax matters. We recognize accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated.
These estimates are subject to uncertainties that are difficult to predict and, as such, actual results could vary from these estimates.      For discussions on contingencies, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 1. Accounting Policies Contingencies,    Note 10. Income Taxes  and   Note 24. Legal
Proceedings and Contingencies.         Income Taxes        Valuation allowances are recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is
required often requires significant judgment including the long-range forecast of future taxable income and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives. These judgments are subject to change. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are
made to earnings in the period when such assessments are made. Our net deferred tax assets were $2.2 billion and $2.8 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, net of valuation allowances of $1.8 billion in both years.      We recognized deferred tax assets at December 31, 2009 related to a U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforward of $253 million, a
U.S. Federal foreign tax credit carryforward of $278 million and a U.S. Federal research and development tax credit carryforward of $266 million. The net operating loss carryforward was acquired as a result of the acquisitions of Medarex, Kosan and
Adnexus and is subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The net operating loss carryforward expires in varying amounts beginning in 2020 and the expiration of the foreign tax credit and research and development tax
credit carryforwards expire in varying amounts beginning in 2014. The realization of these carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic-sourced taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization is not assured, we believe
it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized.      Prior to the Mead Johnson split-off the following
transactions occurred: (i) an internal spin-off of Mead Johnson shares while still owned by us; (ii) conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares; and; (iii) conversion by Mead Johnson   Company to a
limited liability company. These transactions as well as the split-off of Mead Johnson through the exchange offer should qualify as tax-exempt transactions under the Internal Revenue Code based upon a private letter ruling received from the Internal
Revenue Service related to the conversion of Mead Johnson Class B shares to Class A shares, and outside legal opinions. We have relied upon certain assumptions, representations and covenants by Mead Johnson regarding the future conduct of its
business and other matters which could effect the tax treatment of the exchange. For example, the current tax law generally creates a presumption that the exchange would be taxable to us, if Mead Johnson or its shareholders were to engage in
transactions that result in a 50% or greater change in its stock ownership during a four year period beginning two years before the exchange offer, unless it is established that the exchange offer were not part of a plan or series of related
transactions to effect such a change in ownership. If the internal spin-off or exchange offer were determined not to qualify as a tax exempt transaction, we could be subject to tax as if the exchange was a taxable sale by us at market value.
     In addition, we had a negative basis or excess loss account (ELA) in our investment in stock of Mead Johnson prior to these
transactions. We received an opinion from outside legal counsel to the effect that it is more likely than not that we eliminated the ELA as part of these transactions and do not have taxable income with respect to the ELA. The tax law in this area
is complex and it is possible that even if the internal spin-off and the exchange offer is tax exempt under the Internal Revenue Code, the IRS could assert that we have additional taxable income for the period with respect to the ELA. We could be
exposed to additional taxes if this were to occur. Based upon our understanding of the Internal Revenue Code and opinion from outside legal counsel, a tax reserve of $244 million was established reducing the gain on disposal of Mead Johnson included
in discontinued operations.      We agreed to certain tax related indemnities with Mead Johnson as set forth in the tax sharing
agreement. For example, Mead Johnson has agreed to indemnify us for potential tax effects resulting from the breach of certain representations discussed above as well as certain transactions related to the acquisition of Mead Johnson s stock or
assets. We have agreed to indemnify Mead Johnson for certain taxes related to its business prior to the completion of the IPO and created as part of the restructuring to facilitate the IPO.      We established liabilities for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits and
deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known.         
   67   

Table of Contents  

   For discussions on income taxes, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 1.
Accounting Policies Income Taxes  and   Note 10. Income Taxes.        Special Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
      This annual report on Form 10-K (including documents incorporated by reference) and other written and oral statements we
make from time to time contain certain  forward-looking  statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. You can identify these forward-looking
statements by the fact they use words such as  should ,  expect ,  anticipate ,  estimate ,  target ,  may ,  project ,  guidance ,  intend ,  plan ,
 believe  and other words and terms of similar meaning and expression in connection with any discussion of future operating or financial performance. One can also identify forward-looking statements by the fact that they do not relate
strictly to historical or current facts. Such forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including factors that could delay, divert or change any of them, and could cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from current expectations. These statements are likely to relate to, among other things, our goals, plans and projections regarding our financial position, results of operations, cash flows, market position, product
development, product approvals, sales efforts, expenses, performance or results of current and anticipated products and the outcome of contingencies such as legal proceedings and financial results, which are based on current expectations that
involve inherent risks and uncertainties, including internal or external factors that could delay, divert or change any of them in the next several years. We have included important factors in the cautionary statements included in this Annual Report
on Form 10-K, particularly under  Item 1A. Risk Factors,  that we believe could cause actual results to differ materially from any forward-looking statement.      Although we believe we have been prudent in our plans and assumptions, no assurance can be given that any goal or plan set forth in forward-looking statements can be achieved and readers are cautioned not
to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date made. We undertake no obligation to release publicly any revisions to forward-looking statements as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.         
   68   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.         We are exposed to market risk due to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. As a result, certain derivative financial instruments are used when available on a cost-effective basis to hedge
our underlying economic exposure. Our primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, British pound, Australian dollar, Mexican peso and Chinese renminbi. Foreign currency forward contracts are used to
manage these exposures. These instruments generally qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment and are managed on a consolidated basis to efficiently net exposures and thus take advantage of any natural offsets.      Derivative instruments are also used as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. The derivative instruments used are principally
comprised of fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps, which generally qualify for fair-value hedge accounting treatment. In addition, all of our financial instruments, including derivatives, are subject to counterparty credit risk which we consider as
part of the overall fair value measurement. Derivative financial instruments are not used for trading purposes.       Foreign Exchange Risk  
     A significant portion of our revenues, earnings and cash flow is exposed to changes in foreign currency rates. We use foreign
currency forward contracts to manage foreign exchange risk that primarily arises from certain intercompany transactions and designate these derivative instruments as foreign currency cash flow hedges when appropriate. In addition, we are exposed to
foreign exchange transaction risk that arises from non-functional currency denominated assets and liabilities and earnings denominated in non-U.S. dollar currencies. In order to manage these risks, we use foreign currency forward contracts to offset
exposures to certain assets and liabilities and earnings denominated in certain foreign currencies. These foreign currency forward contracts are not designated as hedges and, therefore, changes in the fair value of these derivatives are recognized
in earnings in other (income)/expense, as they occur.      We estimate that a 10% appreciation or depreciation in the underlying
currencies being hedged from their levels against the U.S. dollar at December 31, 2009, with all other variables held constant, would increase or decrease by $152 million the fair value of foreign exchange forward contracts held at
December 31, 2009 and, if realized, would effect earnings over the remaining life of the contracts.      We are also exposed
to translation risk on non-U.S. dollar-denominated net assets. In order to manage this risk we use non-U.S. dollar borrowings to hedge the foreign currency exposures of our net investment in certain foreign affiliates. These non-U.S. dollar
borrowings are designated as hedges of net investments. The effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses on these hedges is recognized as part of the foreign currency translation component of accumulated OCI.      For additional information, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 22. Financial Instruments.        Interest Rate Risk       We use
interest rate swaps as part of our interest rate risk management strategy. The interest rate swaps used are principally fixed-to-floating rate swaps, which are designated as fair-value hedges. The swaps are intended to provide us with an appropriate
balance of fixed and floating rate debt. We estimate that an increase or decrease of 100 basis points in short-term or long-term interest rates would decrease or increase the fair value of our interest rate swaps by $347 million, excluding the
effects of counterparty credit risk and, if realized, would affect earnings over the remaining life of the swaps.      Our
marketable securities are subject to changes in fair value as a result of interest rate fluctuations and other market factors. Our policy is to invest with highly rated institutions and we place limits on the amount and time to maturity of
investments with any individual institution.       Credit Risk       We periodically sell non-U.S. trade receivables as a means to reduce collectability risk. Our sales agreements do not provide for recourse in the event of uncollectibility and we do not retain interest in
the underlying asset once sold.      We monitor our investments with counterparties with the objective of minimizing
concentrations of credit risk. Our investment policy places limits on the amount and time to maturity of investments with any individual counterparty. The policy also requires that investments are made only with highly rated corporate and financial
institutions.      The use of derivative instruments exposes us to credit risk. When the fair value of a derivative instrument
contract is positive, we are exposed to credit risk if the counterparty fails to perform. When the fair value of a derivative instrument contract is negative, the counterparty is exposed to credit risk if we fail to perform our obligation. We are
not required to post collateral when a derivative contract is in a liability position, and we do not require counterparties to post collateral for derivatives in an asset position to us. We seek to minimize the credit risk in derivative instruments
by entering into transactions with reputable financial institutions. We have a policy of diversifying derivatives with counterparties to mitigate the overall risk of counterparty defaults.      For additional information, see  Item 8. Financial Statements Note 11. Fair Value Measurement,    Note 12. Cash, Cash Equivalents and Marketable
Securities,    Note 21. Short-Term Borrowings and Long-Term Debt  and   Note 22. Financial Instruments.          
   69   

Table of Contents  

      BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS        Dollars and Shares in Millions, Except Per Share Data        

Item 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.          
    The accompanying notes
are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.         
   70   

Table of Contents  

      BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF        COMPREHENSIVE INCOME AND RETAINED EARNINGS        Dollars in Millions
       
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.         
   71   

Table of Contents  

      BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY        CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS        Dollars in Millions, Except Share and Per Share Data        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.         
   72   

Table of Contents  

      BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        Dollars in Millions        
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.         
   73   

Table of Contents  

      Note 1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES        Basis of Consolidation       The
consolidated financial statements, prepared in conformity with United States (U.S.) generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), include the accounts of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (which may be referred to as Bristol-Myers Squibb, BMS, or the
Company) and all of its controlled majority-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated. Material subsequent events are evaluated and disclosed through the report issuance date, February 19, 2010.
     Codevelopment, cocommercialization and license arrangements are entered into with other parties for various therapeutic
areas, with terms including upfront licensing and contingent payments. These arrangements are assessed to determine whether the terms give economic or other control over the entity, which may require consolidation of the entity. Entities that are
consolidated because they are controlled by means other than a majority voting interest are referred to as variable interest entities. Arrangements with material variable interest entities, including those associated with these codevelopment,
cocommercialization and license arrangements, were determined not to exist.          Reclassifications       Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation. Mead Johnson Nutrition Company (Mead Johnson)
financial results, previously reported in the Mead Johnson segment, have been reported as discontinued operations for all years presented.       Use of Estimates       The preparation of financial statements requires the use of management estimates and
assumptions, based on complex judgments that are considered reasonable, that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the
reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The most significant assumptions are employed in estimates used in determining the fair value of intangible assets, restructuring charges and accruals, sales rebate and return
accruals, legal contingencies, tax assets and tax liabilities, stock-based compensation expense, pension and postretirement benefits (including the actuarial assumptions, see   Note 19. Pension, Postretirement and Postemployment
Liabilities ), fair value of financial instruments with no direct or observable market quotes, inventory obsolescence, potential impairment of long-lived assets, allowances for bad debt, as well as in estimates used in applying the revenue
recognition policy. Actual results may differ from estimated results.       Revenue Recognition       Revenue is recognized when title and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to the customer, generally at time
of shipment. However, in the case of certain sales made by certain non-U.S. businesses, revenue is recognized on the date of receipt by the purchaser. See   Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations  for further discussion of revenue
recognition related to alliances. Revenues are reduced at the time of recognition to reflect expected returns that are estimated based on historical experience and business trends. Provisions are made at the time of revenue recognition for
discounts, rebates and estimated sales allowances based on historical experience updated for changes in facts and circumstances, as appropriate. Such provisions are recognized as a reduction of revenue.      In limited circumstances, where a new product is not an extension of an existing line of product or no historical experience with products
in a similar therapeutic category exists, revenue is deferred until the right of return no longer exists or sufficient historical experience to estimate sales returns is developed.       Sales Rebate and Return Accruals       Sales rebate and return accruals are
established when the related revenue is recognized, resulting in a reduction to sales and the establishment of a liability. An accrual is recognized based on an estimate of the proportion of recognized revenue that will result in a rebate or return.
Prime vendor charge-back accruals and cash discounts, established in a similar manner, are recognized as a reduction to accounts receivable. Women, Infants and Children (WIC) rebates related to Mead Johnson s participation in competitive
bidding process sponsored by various governmental agencies for nutritional products.         
   74   

Table of Contents  

   Reductions to trade receivables and listing of accrued rebates and returns liabilities are as follows:
      
     Income Taxes       The provision for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability approach of accounting for income taxes. Under this approach,
deferred taxes represent the future tax consequences expected to occur when the reported amounts of assets and liabilities are recovered or paid. The provision for income taxes represents income taxes paid or payable for the current year plus the
change in deferred taxes during the year. Deferred taxes result from differences between the financial and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are adjusted for changes in tax rates and tax laws when changes are enacted. Valuation allowances are
recognized to reduce deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized. The assessment of whether or not a valuation allowance is required often requires significant judgment including the long-range
forecast of future taxable income and the evaluation of tax planning initiatives. Adjustments to the deferred tax valuation allowances are made to earnings in the period when such assessments are made.       Cash and Cash Equivalents       Cash and cash equivalents consist of U.S. Treasury securities, government agency securities, bank deposits, time deposits and money market funds. Cash equivalents are primarily highly liquid investments with original maturities of
three months or less at the time of purchase and are recognized at cost, which approximates fair value. Cash and cash equivalents maintained in foreign currencies approximated $500 million at December 31, 2009 and are subject to currency
rate risk.       Marketable Securities and Investments in Other Companies       All marketable securities were classified as  available for sale  on the date of purchase. As such, all investments in marketable securities were reported at fair value at
December 31, 2009 and 2008. Fair value is determined based on observable market quotes or valuation models using assessments of counterparty credit worthiness, credit default risk or underlying security and overall capital market liquidity.
Declines in fair value considered other than temporary are charged to earnings and those considered temporary are reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) in shareholders  equity. Declines in fair value determined
to be credit related are charged to earnings. An average cost method is used in determining realized gains and losses on the sale of  available for sale  securities which are included in other (income)/expense.      Investments in 50% or less owned companies for which the ability to exercise significant influence is maintained are accounted for using the
equity method of accounting. The share of net income or losses of equity investments is included in equity in net income of affiliates in the consolidated statements of earnings. Equity investments are reviewed for impairment by assessing if the
decline in market value of the investment below the carrying value is other than temporary. In making this determination, factors are evaluated in determining whether a loss in value should be recognized. This includes consideration of the intent
and ability to hold investments, the market price and market price fluctuations of the investment s publicly traded shares, and inability of the investee to sustain an earnings capacity, justifying the carrying amount of the investment.
Impairment losses are recognized in other expense when a decline in market value is deemed to be other than temporary.       Inventory Valuation
      Inventories are generally stated at the lower of average cost or market.         
   75   

Table of Contents  

    Capital Assets and Depreciation       Expenditures for additions, renewals and improvements are capitalized at cost. Depreciation is generally computed on a straight-line method based on the estimated useful lives of the
related assets. The estimated useful lives of the major classes of depreciable assets are as follows:       
     Impairment of Long-Lived Assets       Current facts or circumstances are periodically evaluated to determine if the
carrying value of depreciable assets to be held and used may not be recoverable. If such circumstances are determined to exist, an estimate of undiscounted future cash flows produced by the long-lived asset, or the appropriate grouping of assets, is
compared to the carrying value to determine whether impairment exists at its lowest level of identifiable cash flows. If an asset is determined to be impaired, the loss is measured based on the difference between the asset s fair value and its
carrying value. An estimate of the asset s fair value is based on quoted market prices in active markets, if available. If quoted market prices are not available, the estimate of fair value is based on various valuation techniques, including a
discounted value of estimated future cash flows. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of its carrying value or its estimated net realizable value.       Capitalized Software       Certain costs to obtain internal use software for
significant systems projects are capitalized and amortized over the estimated useful life of the software, which ranges from three to 10 years. Costs to obtain software for projects that are not significant are expensed as incurred. Capitalized
software amortization expense was $68 million in 2009, $84 million in 2008 and $116 million in 2007, of which $9 million in 2009, $11 million in 2008 and $12 million in 2007 was included in discontinued operations.       Business Combinations       An
acquired business is included in the consolidated financial statements upon completion of the acquisition. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recognized at the date of acquisition at their respective fair values. Any excess of the purchase
price over the estimated fair values of the net assets acquired is recognized as goodwill. Legal costs, audit fees, business valuation costs, and all other business acquisition costs are expensed when incurred.       Goodwill, Acquired In-Process Research and Development and Other Intangible Assets       Goodwill is tested for impairment annually using a two-step process. The first step is to identify a potential impairment, and the second step measures the amount of the impairment
loss, if any. Goodwill is impaired if the carrying amount of a reporting unit s goodwill exceeds its estimated fair value. The BioPharmaceuticals segment includes four separate reporting units based on geography. The annual goodwill impairment
assessment was completed in the first quarter of 2009 and subsequently monitored for potential impairment in the remaining quarters of 2009, none of which indicated an impairment of goodwill.      The fair value of in-process research and development (IPRD) acquired in a business combination is determined based on the present value of each research project s projected
cash flows using an income approach. Future cash flows are predominately based on the net income forecast of each project, consistent with historical pricing, margins and expense levels of similar products. Revenues are estimated based on relevant
market size and growth factors, expected industry trends, individual project life cycles and the life of each research project s underlying patent. In determining the fair value of each research project, expected revenues are first adjusted for
technical risk of completion. The resulting cash flows are then discounted at a rate approximating the Company s weighted-average cost of capital.      IPRD acquired after January 1, 2009 is initially capitalized and considered indefinite-lived assets subject to annual impairment reviews or more often upon the occurrence of certain events. For those
compounds that reach commercialization, the assets are amortized over the expected useful lives. Prior to January 1, 2009, amounts allocated to acquired IPRD were expensed at the date of acquisition.      Patents/trademarks, licenses, technology and capitalized software are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives,
ranging from two to 15 years. Such intangible assets are deemed to be impaired if their net carrying value exceeds their estimated fair value.         
   76   

Table of Contents  

    Restructuring       Restructuring charges were recognized as a result of actions to streamline operations and rationalize manufacturing facilities. Significant judgment is used when estimating the impact of restructuring
plans, including future termination benefits and other exit costs to be incurred when the actions take place. Actual results could vary from these estimates       Product Liability       Accruals for product liability (including associated
legal costs) are established on an undiscounted basis when it is probable that a liability was incurred and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated based on existing information. Accruals are adjusted periodically as assessment
efforts progress or as additional information becomes available. Receivables for related insurance or other third-party recoveries for product liabilities are recognized on an undiscounted basis when it is probable that a recovery will be realized.
      Contingencies       In the normal course of business, loss contingencies, such as legal proceedings and claims arising out of the business, that cover a wide range of matters, including, among others, government investigations, shareholder lawsuits, product
and environmental liability, and tax matters, may occur. Accruals for such loss contingencies are recognized when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Gain contingencies are not
recognized until realized.       Derivative Financial Instruments       Derivative financial instruments are used principally in the management of interest rate and foreign currency exposures and are not held or issued for trading purposes.   
  Derivative instruments are recognized at fair value. Changes in a derivative s fair value are recognized in earnings unless specific
hedge criteria are met. If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, changes in the fair value of the derivative and of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk are recognized in earnings. If the derivative is designated as a cash
flow hedge, the effective portions of changes in the fair value of the derivative are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income (OCI) and subsequently recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings. Cash flows are classified
consistent with the underlying hedged item.      Derivatives are designated and assigned as hedges of forecasted transactions,
specific assets or specific liabilities. When hedged assets or liabilities are sold or extinguished or the forecasted transactions being hedged are no longer expected to occur, a gain or loss is immediately recognized on the designated hedge in
earnings.      Non-derivative instruments are also designated as hedges of net investments in foreign affiliates. These
non-derivative instruments are mainly euro denominated long-term debt. The effective portion of the designated non-derivative instrument is recognized in the foreign currency translation section of OCI and the ineffective portion is recognized in
earnings.       Shipping and Handling Costs       Shipping and handling costs are included in marketing, selling and administrative expenses and were $208 million in 2009, $262 million in 2008 and $278 million in 2007, of which $68 million in 2009, $103
million in 2008 and $128 million in 2007 was included in discontinued operations.       Advertising and Product Promotion Costs    
  Advertising and product promotion costs are expensed as incurred.       Foreign Currency Translation       Foreign subsidiary earnings are translated
into U.S. dollars using average exchange rates. The net assets of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates. The U.S. dollar effects that arise from translating the net assets of these subsidiaries at
changing rates are recognized in OCI.         
   77   

Table of Contents  

    Research and Development       Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. Strategic alliances with third parties provide rights to develop, manufacture, market and/or sell pharmaceutical products,
the rights to which are owned by the other party. Certain research and development payments to alliance partners are contingent upon the achievement of certain pre-determined criteria. Milestone payments achieved prior to regulatory approval of the
product are expensed as research and development. Milestone payments made in connection with regulatory approvals are capitalized and amortized to cost of products sold over the remaining useful life of the asset. Capitalized milestone payments are
tested for recoverability periodically or whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. Research and development is recognized net of reimbursements in connection with collaboration
agreements. Upfront licensing and milestone payments that are received are deferred and amortized over the estimated life of the product in other income.       Recently Issued Accounting Standards       In October 2009, the FASB issued ASU
No. 2009-13,  Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements a consensus of the FASB Emerging Issues Task Force,  an amendment of ASC 605-25 (formerly Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 08-01,  Revenue Arrangements with Multiple
Deliverables ). This standard provides principles for allocation of consideration among its multiple-elements, allowing more flexibility in identifying and accounting for separate deliverables under an arrangement. The EITF introduces an
estimated selling price method for valuing the elements of a bundled arrangement if vendor-specific objective evidence or third-party evidence of selling price is not available, and significantly expands related disclosure requirements. It is
effective on a prospective basis for revenue arrangements entered into or materially modified in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Alternatively, adoption may be on a retrospective basis, and early application is permitted. The
potential impact of this standard is being evaluated.      In December 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-16,  Accounting
for Transfers of Financial Assets,  an amendment of ASC 860-10 (formerly SFAS No. 166,  Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 140  issued in June 2009 ).  Among other items the
standard removes the concept of a qualifying special-purpose entity and clarifies that the objective of paragraph ASC 860-10-40-4 is to determine whether a transferor and all of the entities included in the transferor s financial statements
being presented have surrendered control over transferred financial assets. This standard is effective January 1, 2010 and is not expected to have an impact on the consolidated financial statements.      In December 2009, the FASB issued ASU No. 2009-17,  Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises involved with Variable
Interest Entities,  an amendment to ASC 810-10 (formerly SFAS No. 167,  Amending FASB interpretation No. 46(R)  issued in June 2009 ) . This standard provides guidance in determining whether an enterprise has a controlling
financial interest in a variable interest entity. This determination identifies the primary beneficiary of a variable interest entity as the enterprise that has both the power to direct the activities of a variable interest entity that most
significantly impacts the entity s economic performance, and the obligation to absorb losses or the right to receive benefits of the entity that could potentially be significant to the variable interest entity. This standard also requires
ongoing reassessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary and eliminates the quantitative approach previously required for determining the primary beneficiary. New provisions of this standard are effective January 1, 2010
but are not expected to have an impact on the consolidated financial statements.      In July 2009, the FASB issued ASC 105
(formerly Statement of Financial Standards (SFAS) No. 168,  The Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ) .  This standard contains guidance which reduces the U.S. GAAP hierarchy to two levels, one that is authoritative
and one that is not. This standard was effective September 15, 2009 and is not expected to have an impact on the consolidated financial statements.      ASC 820-10,  Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures  (formerly SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurements ) ,  with respect to non-financial assets and liabilities was adopted effective
January 1, 2009. This standard defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. This standard did not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements.
     ASC 810-10-65-1,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51
( formerly SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51)  was adopted on January 1, 2009. As a result of adoption, the noncontrolling interest balance of $33
million, previously presented as $66 million of receivables and $33 million of non-current other liabilities, was presented as part of equity at December 31, 2008. Also, noncontrolling interest has been presented as a reconciling item in the
consolidated statements of earnings, the consolidated statements of comprehensive income and retained earnings and the consolidated statements of cash flows.      ASC 805 (formerly SFAS No. 141(R),  Business Combinations ) ,  for business combinations on or after January 1, 2009 was adopted. This standard requires that assets acquired,
liabilities assumed, and any noncontrolling interest in the acquiree at the acquisition date,
        
   78   

Table of Contents  

be measured at fair value as of that date. In a business combination achieved in stages, all identifiable assets and liabilities, including non-controlling interest in the acquiree, are required
to be recognized at the full amount of their fair value. It also requires the fair value of IPRD to be recognized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset, contingent consideration to be recognized on the acquisition date, and restructuring and
acquisition-related deal costs to be expensed as incurred. In addition, any excess of the fair value of net assets acquired over purchase price and any subsequent changes in estimated contingencies are to be recognized in earnings. See
  Note 5. Medarex, Inc. Acquisition  for Medarex, Inc. (Medarex) purchase accounting details.      ASC 808-10,
 Collaborative Arrangements  (formerly EITF Issue No. 07-1,  Accounting for Collaborative Arrangements Related to the Development and Commercialization of Intellectual Property),  was adopted on January 1, 2009 and applied
retroactively. This standard defines a collaborative arrangement as one in which the participants are actively involved and are exposed to significant risks and rewards that depend on the ultimate commercial success of the endeavor. Revenues and
costs incurred with third parties in connection with collaborative arrangements are presented gross or net based on the criteria in ASC 605-45-45  Overall Considerations of Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal vs. Net as an Agent  (formerly
EITF Issue No. 99-19,  Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal vs. Net as an Agent ) and other accounting literature. Payments to or from collaborators are evaluated and presented based on the nature of the arrangement and its terms, the
nature of the entity s business, and whether those payments are within the scope of other accounting literature. The nature and purpose of collaborative arrangements are disclosed along with the accounting policies and the classification of
significant financial statement amounts related to the arrangements. Activities in arrangements conducted in a separate legal entity are accounted for under other accounting literature; however, required disclosure applies to the entire
collaborative agreement. This standard did not have an impact on the consolidated financial statements.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

    Note 2. ALLIANCES AND COLLABORATIONS        sanofi       The Company has agreements with sanofi-aventis (sanofi) for the
codevelopment and cocommercialization of AVAPRO*/AVALIDE* (irbesartan/irbesartan-hydrochlorothiazide), an angiotensin II receptor antagonist indicated for the treatment of hypertension and diabetic nephropathy, and PLAVIX* (clopidogrel bisulfate), a
platelet aggregation inhibitor. The worldwide alliance operates under the framework of two geographic territories; one in the Americas (principally the U.S., Canada, Puerto Rico and Latin American countries) and Australia and the other in Europe and
Asia. Accordingly, two territory partnerships were formed to manage central expenses, such as marketing, research and development and royalties, and to supply finished product to the individual countries. In general, at the country level, agreements
either to copromote (whereby a partnership was formed between the parties to sell each brand) or to comarket (whereby the parties operate and sell their brands independently of each other) are in place. The agreements expire on the later of
(i) with respect to PLAVIX*, 2013 and, with respect to AVAPRO*/AVALIDE*, 2012 in the Americas and Australia and 2013 in Europe and Asia, and (ii) the expiration of all patents and other exclusivity rights in the applicable territory.
     The Company acts as the operating partner and owns a 50.1% majority controlling interest in the territory covering the
Americas and Australia. Sanofi s ownership interest in this territory is 49.9%. As such, the Company consolidates all country partnership results for this territory and reflects sanofi s share of the results as a noncontrolling interest.
The Company recognizes net sales in this territory and in comarketing countries outside this territory (e.g. Germany, Italy for irbesartan only, Spain and Greece). Discovery royalties owed to sanofi are included in cost of products sold. Cash flows
from operating activities of the partnerships in the territory covering the Americas and Australia are included as operating activities within the Company s consolidated statements of cash flows. Distributions of partnership profits to sanofi
and sanofi s funding of ongoing partnership operations occur on a routine basis and are also recognized within operating activities.      Sanofi acts as the operating partner and owns a 50.1% majority controlling interest in the territory covering Europe and Asia. The Company s ownership interest in this territory is 49.9%. The Company
does not consolidate the partnership entities in this territory but accounts for them under the equity method and reflects its share of the results in equity in net income of affiliates. The Company routinely receives distributions of profits and
provides funding for the ongoing operations of the partnerships in the territory covering Europe and Asia, which are reflected as cash provided by operating activities.      The Company and sanofi have a separate partnership governing the copromotion of irbesartan in the U.S. Under this alliance, the Company recognizes other income related to the amortization of deferred
income associated with sanofi s $350 million payment to the Company for their acquisition of an interest in the irbesartan license for the U.S. upon formation of the alliance. Deferred income will continue to be amortized through 2012, which is
the expected expiration of the license. Income attributed to certain supply activities and development and opt-out royalties with sanofi are also reflected net in other income.      The following summarized financial information is reflected in the consolidated financial statements:       
       
   80   

Table of Contents  

   The following is the summarized financial information for interests in the partnerships with sanofi for the
territory covering Europe and Asia, which are not consolidated but are accounted for using the equity method:       
    Cost of products sold
includes discovery royalties of $446 million in 2009, $531 million in 2008 and $493 million in 2007, which are paid directly to sanofi. All other expenses are shared based on the applicable ownership percentages. Current assets and current
liabilities include approximately $1.0 billion in 2009, $1.1 billion in 2008 and $1.2 billion in 2007 related to receivables/payables attributed to the respective years, net cash distributions to the Company and sanofi as well as intercompany
balances between partnerships within the territory. The remaining current assets and current liabilities consist of third-party trade receivables, inventories and amounts due to the Company and sanofi for the purchase of inventories, royalties and
expense reimbursements.       Otsuka       The Company has a worldwide commercialization agreement with Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. (Otsuka), to codevelop and copromote with Otsuka, ABILIFY* (aripiprazole), for the treatment of schizophrenia,
bipolar mania disorder and major depressive disorder, except in Japan, China, Taiwan, North Korea, South Korea, the Philippines, Thailand, Indonesia, Pakistan and Egypt. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company purchases the product from Otsuka
and performs finish manufacturing for sale to third-party customers by the Company or Otsuka. The product is currently copromoted with Otsuka in the U.S., United Kingdom (UK), Germany, France and Spain. Currently in the U.S., Germany, France and
Spain, where the product is invoiced to third-party customers by the Company on behalf of Otsuka, the Company recognizes alliance revenue for its 65% contractual share of third-party net sales and recognizes all expenses related to the product. The
Company recognizes this alliance revenue when ABILIFY* is shipped and all risks and rewards of ownership have transferred to third-party customers. In the UK and Italy, where the Company is presently the exclusive distributor for the product, the
Company recognizes 100% of the net sales and related cost of products sold and expenses. The Company also has an exclusive right to sell ABILIFY* in other countries in Europe, the Americas and a number of countries in Asia. In these countries, the
Company recognizes 100% of the net sales and related cost of products sold.      In April 2009, the Company and Otsuka agreed to
extend the U.S. portion of the commercialization and manufacturing agreement until the expected loss of product exclusivity in April 2015. Under the terms of the agreement, the Company paid Otsuka $400 million, which is amortized as a reduction of
net sales through the extension period. The unamortized balance is included in other assets. Beginning on January 1, 2010, the share of ABILIFY* U.S. net sales that the Company recognizes changed from 65% to the following:       
    During this
period, Otsuka will be responsible for 30% of the U.S. expenses related to the commercialization of ABILIFY*.         
   81   

Table of Contents  

   Beginning January 1, 2013, and through the expected loss of U.S. exclusivity in April
2015, including an expected six month pediatric extension, the Company will receive the following percentages of U.S. annual net sales:       
    During this
period, Otsuka will be responsible for 50% of all U.S. expenses related to the commercialization of ABILIFY*.      In addition,
the Company and Otsuka announced that they have entered into an oncology collaboration for SPRYCEL (dasatinib) and IXEMPRA (ixabepilone), which includes the U.S., Japan and European Union (EU) markets (the Oncology Territory). Beginning in 2010
through 2020, the collaboration fees the Company will pay to Otsuka annually are the following percentages of net sales of SPRYCEL and IXEMPRA in the Oncology Territory:       
    During these
periods, Otsuka will contribute (i) 20% of the first $175 million of certain commercial operational expenses relating to the oncology products, and (ii) 1% of such commercial operational expenses relating to the products in the territory
in excess of $175 million. Starting in 2011, Otsuka will have the right to copromote SPRYCEL with the Company in the U.S. and Japan and in 2012, in the top five EU markets.      The U.S. extension and the oncology collaboration include a change-of-control provision in the case of an acquisition of the Company. If the acquiring company does not have a
competing product to ABILIFY*, then the new company will assume the ABILIFY* agreement (as amended) and the oncology collaboration as it exists today. If the acquiring company has a product that competes with ABILIFY*, Otsuka can elect to request
the acquiring company to choose whether to divest ABILIFY* or the competing product. In the scenario where ABILIFY* is divested, Otsuka would be obligated to acquire the Company s rights under the ABILIFY* agreement (as amended). The agreements
also provide that in the event of a generic competitor to ABILIFY* after January 1, 2010, the Company has the option of terminating the ABILIFY* April 2009 amendment (with the agreement as previously amended remaining in force). If the Company
were to exercise such option then either (i) the Company would receive a payment from Otsuka according to a pre-determined schedule and the oncology collaboration would terminate at the same time or (ii) the oncology collaboration would
continue for a truncated period according to a pre-determined schedule.      For the entire EU, the agreement remained unchanged
and will expire in June 2014. In other countries where the Company has the exclusive right to sell ABILIFY*, the agreement expires on the later of the 10th anniversary of the first commercial sale in such country or expiration of the applicable
patent in such country.      In addition to the $400 million extension payment, total milestone payments made to Otsuka under the
agreement through December 2009 were $217 million, of which $157 million was expensed as IPRD in 1999. The remaining $60 million was capitalized in other intangible assets and is amortized in cost of products sold over the remaining life of the
agreement in the U.S.      The following summarized financial information related to this alliance is reflected in the consolidated financial
statements:       
       
   82   

Table of Contents  

   In January 2007, the Company granted Otsuka exclusive rights in Japan to develop and
commercialize ONGLYZA. The Company expects to receive milestone payments based on certain regulatory events, as well as sales-based payments following regulatory approval of ONGLYZA in Japan, and retained rights to copromote ONGLYZA with Otsuka in
Japan. Otsuka is responsible for all development costs in Japan.       Lilly       The Company has a commercialization agreement with Eli Lilly and Company (Lilly) through Lilly s November 2008 acquisition of ImClone Systems Incorporated (ImClone) for the codevelopment and
promotion of ERBITUX* (cetuximab) in the U.S., which expires as to ERBITUX* in September 2018. The Company also has codevelopment and promotion rights in Canada and Japan. ERBITUX* is indicated for use in the treatment of patients with metastatic
colorectal cancer and for use in the treatment of squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck. Under the agreement, covering North America, Lilly receives a distribution fee based on a flat rate of 39% of net sales in North America, which is
included in cost of products sold.      In October 2007, the Company and ImClone amended their codevelopment agreement with Merck
KGaA (Merck) to provide for cocommercialization of ERBITUX* in Japan. The rights under this agreement expire in 2032; however, Lilly has the ability to terminate the agreement after 2018 if it determines that it is commercially unreasonable for
Lilly to continue. ERBITUX* received marketing approval in Japan in July 2008 for the use of ERBITUX* in treating patients with advanced or recurrent colorectal cancer. The Company receives 50% of the pre-tax profit from Merck sales of ERBITUX* in
Japan which is further shared equally with Lilly. The Company s share of profits from commercialization in Japan is included in other income.      The Company is amortizing $500 million of previously capitalized milestone payments that was accounted for as a license acquisition through 2018, the remaining term of the agreement. The amortization is
classified in costs of products sold.      Upon execution of the initial commercialization agreement, the Company acquired an
ownership interest in ImClone which approximated 17% at the time of the transaction noted below, and had been accounting for its investment under the equity method. The Company sold its shares of ImClone for approximately $1.0 billion and recognized
a pre-tax gain of $895 million in November 2008.      In January 2010, the Company and Lilly restructured the commercialization
agreement described above between the Company and ImClone as it relates to necitumumab (IMC-11F8), a novel targeted cancer therapy currently in Phase III development for non-small cell lung cancer. As restructured, both companies will share in the
cost of developing and potentially commercializing necitumumab in the U.S., Canada and Japan. Lilly maintains exclusive rights to necitumumab in all other markets. The Company will fund 55% of development costs for studies that will be
used only in the U.S. and will fund 27.5% for global studies. The Company would pay $250 million to Lilly as a milestone payment upon first approval in the U.S. In the U.S. and Canada, the Company will recognize sales and receive 55% of the profits
for necitumumab. Lilly will provide 50% of the selling effort. In Japan, the Company and Lilly will share commercial costs and profits evenly. The agreement as it relates to necitumumab continues beyond patent expiration until both parties agree to
terminate.      The following summarized financial information related to this alliance is reflected in the consolidated financial statements:
      
     Gilead       The Company and Gilead Sciences, Inc. (Gilead) have a joint venture to develop and commercialize ATRIPLA* (efavirenz 600 mg/ emtricitabine
200 mg/ tenofovir disoproxil fumarate 300 mg), a once-daily single tablet three-drug regimen combining the Company s SUSTIVA (efavirenz) and Gilead s TRUVADA* (emtricitabine and tenofovir disoproxil fumarate), in the U.S., Canada and
Europe.      Gilead recognizes all ATRIPLA* revenues in the U.S., Canada and most countries in Europe and consolidates the results
of the joint venture in its operating results. The Company recognizes revenue for the bulk efavirenz component of ATRIPLA* upon sales of that product to third-party customers. In a limited number of EU countries, the Company recognizes revenue for
ATRIPLA* where it
        
   83   

Table of Contents  

agreed to purchase the product from Gilead and distribute to third-party customers. The Company s revenues related to ATRIPLA* net sales were $869 million in 2009, $582 million in 2008 and
$335 million in 2007. The Company accounts for its participation in the U.S. joint venture under the equity method of accounting and recognizes its share of the joint venture results in equity in net income of affiliates in the consolidated
statements of earnings. The Company s equity loss on the U.S. joint venture with Gilead was $10 million in 2009 and $9 million in each of 2008 and 2007.       AstraZeneca       The Company maintains two worldwide codevelopment and
cocommercialization agreements with AstraZeneca PLC (AstraZeneca), The first is for the worldwide (excluding Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization of ONGLYZA (saxagliptin), a DPP-IV inhibitor (Saxagliptin Agreement). The second is for the
worldwide (including Japan) codevelopment and cocommercialization of dapagliflozin, a sodium-glucose cotransporter-2 (SGLT2) inhibitor (SGLT2 Agreement). Both compounds are being studied for the treatment of diabetes and were discovered by the
Company. Under each agreement, the two companies will jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy and share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis (excluding, in the case of saxagliptin, Japan), and the
Company will manufacture both products. The companies will cocommercialize dapagliflozin in Japan and share profits and losses equally. Under each agreement, the Company has the option to decline involvement in cocommercialization in a given country
and instead receive a royalty. Royalty percentage rates if the Company opts-out of cocommercialization agreements are tiered based on net sales.      On July 31, 2009, the FDA approved ONGLYZA as an adjunct to diet and exercise to improve blood sugar (glycemic) control in adults for the treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus and in August 2009, the
Company and AstraZeneca launched ONGLYZA in the U.S. On October 1, 2009, ONGLYZA received a Marketing Authorization for use in the EU to treat adults with type 2 diabetes in combination with either metformin, a sulfonylurea or a
thiazolidinedione, when any of these agents alone, with diet and exercise, do not provide adequate glycemic control.      The
Company received from AstraZeneca a total of $250 million in upfront licensing and milestone payments related to the Saxagliptin Agreement and $50 million in upfront licensing payments related to the SGLT2 Agreement as of December 31, 2009,
including $150 million received during 2009. These payments are deferred and are being amortized over the useful life of the products into other income. Amortization was $16 million in 2009, $9 million in 2008 and $7 million in 2007. The unamortized
upfront licensing and milestone payments were $268 million and $134 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Additional milestone payments are expected to be received by the Company upon the successful achievement of various
development and regulatory events, as well as sales-based milestones. Under the Saxagliptin Agreement, the Company could receive up to an additional $100 million if all remaining development and regulatory milestones for saxagliptin are met and up
to an additional $300 million if all sales-based milestones for saxagliptin are met. Under the SGLT2 Agreement, the Company could receive up to an additional $350 million if all development and regulatory milestones for dapagliflozin are met and up
to an additional $390 million if all sales-based milestones for dapagliflozin are met.      Under each agreement, the Company and
AstraZeneca also share in development and commercialization costs. The majority of development costs under the initial development plans were paid by AstraZeneca (with AstraZeneca bearing all the costs of the initial agreed upon development plan for
dapagliflozin in Japan). Additional development costs will generally be shared equally. The net reimbursements to the Company for development costs related to saxagliptin and dapagliflozin are netted in research and development and were $38 million
in 2009, $139 million 2008 and $145 million in 2007.       Pfizer       The Company and Pfizer Inc. (Pfizer) maintain a worldwide codevelopment and cocommercialization agreement for apixaban, an anticoagulant discovered by the Company being studied for
the prevention and treatment of a broad range of venous and arterial thrombotic conditions.      The Company received $314 million
in upfront licensing payments during 2007. In addition, the Company received a $150 million milestone payment in April 2009 for the commencement of Phase III clinical trials for prevention of major adverse cardiovascular events in acute coronary
syndrome. The Company amortized into other income $28 million in 2009, $20 million in 2008 and $12 million in 2007 of the upfront licensing and milestone payments. The unamortized upfront licensing and milestone payments was $404 million and $282
million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Pfizer will fund 60% of all development costs under the initial development plan effective January 1, 2007 going forward, and the Company will fund 40%. The net reimbursements to the
Company for apixaban development costs are netted in research and development and were $190 million in 2009, $159 million in 2008 and $88 million in 2007. The Company may also receive additional payments from Pfizer of up to an additional $630
million based on achieving development and regulatory milestones. The companies will jointly develop the clinical and marketing strategy, will share commercialization expenses and profits and losses equally on a global basis, and will manufacture
product under this arrangement.         
   84   

Table of Contents  

    Exelixis       In December 2008, the Company and Exelixis, Inc. (Exelixis) entered into a global codevelopment and cocommercialization arrangement for XL184 (a MET/VEG/RET inhibitor), an oral anti-cancer compound, and a
license for XL281 with utility in RAS and RAF mutant tumors under development by Exelixis. Under the terms of the arrangement, the Company paid Exelixis $195 million in 2008 upon execution of the agreement and paid an additional $45 million in 2009,
all of which was expensed as research and development in 2008. Exelixis funds the first $100 million of development for XL184. If Exelixis elects to continue sharing development costs, Exelixis will fund 35% of future global development costs
(excluding Japan) and share U.S. profits and losses equally and has an option to copromote in the U.S.; failing such elections, Exelixis receives milestones and royalties on U.S. net sales. Royalty percentage rates are tiered based on net sales. The
Company will fund 100% of development costs in Japan. In addition to royalties on non-U.S. net sales, the Company could pay up to $610 million if all development and regulatory milestones are met on both compounds and up to an additional $300
million if all sales-based milestones are met on both compounds.      In addition, the Company and Exelixis have a history of
collaborations to identify, develop and promote oncology targets. In January 2007, the Company and Exelixis entered into an oncology collaboration and license agreement under which Exelixis is pursuing the development of three small molecule INDs
for codevelopment and copromotion. Under the terms of this agreement, the Company paid Exelixis $60 million of upfront licensing fees in 2007. During 2008, the Company paid Exelixis $40 million in IND acceptance milestones. If Exelixis elects to
fund development costs and copromote in the U.S., both parties will equally share development costs and profits. If Exelixis opts-out of the codevelopment and copromotion agreement, the Company will take over full development and U.S. commercial
rights, and, if successful, will pay Exelixis development and regulatory milestones up to $380 million and up to an additional $180 million of sales-based milestones, as well as royalties. Royalty percentage rates are tiered based on net sales.
     Since July 2001, the Company has held an equity investment in Exelixis, which at December 31, 2009 represented less than
1% of their outstanding shares.       ZymoGenetics       In January 2009, the Company and ZymoGenetics, Inc. (ZymoGenetics) entered into a global codevelopment arrangement in the U.S. for PEG-Interferon lambda, a novel type 3 interferon for the treatment of
hepatitis C. Under the terms of the arrangement, the Company paid ZymoGenetics a total of $200 million of upfront licensing and milestone payments in 2009, all of which was expensed as research and development. ZymoGenetics will fund the first $100
million of global development for PEG-Interferon lambda, after which ZymoGenetics will fund 20% of development costs in the U.S. and Europe and the Company will fund 100% of the development costs in the rest of the world. If ZymoGenetics elects to
continue sharing development and commercialization costs in the U.S., ZymoGenetics will share 40% of U.S. profits and losses and has an option to copromote in the U.S. Failing such election to fund development costs in the U.S., ZymoGenetics will
receive royalties on U.S. net sales. Royalty percentage rates are tiered based on net sales. The Company will pay ZymoGenetics royalties on all non-U.S. net sales. In addition, the Company could pay up to $335 million if all hepatitis C development
and regulatory milestones are met; up to $287 million if development and regulatory milestones for other potential indications are met; and up to an additional $285 million if all sales-based milestones are met.       Alder       In November 2009,
the Company and Alder Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. (Alder) entered into a global agreement for the development and commercialization of ALD518, a novel biologic that has completed Phase IIa development for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis. Under
the terms of the arrangement, Alder granted the Company worldwide exclusive rights to develop and commercialize ALD518 for all potential indications except cancer, for which Alder retains rights and has granted the Company an option to codevelop and
have exclusive rights to cocommercialize outside the United States. The Company paid Alder an $85 million upfront licensing payment in 2009, which was expensed as research and development. In addition, the Company could pay up to $764 million of
development-based and regulatory-based milestone payments, potential sales-based milestones which under certain circumstances may exceed $200 million, and royalties on net sales. Royalty percentage rates are tiered based on net sales. If the Company
chooses the option to pursue cancer indications, then the Company could pay up to an additional $185 million of development-based and regulatory-based milestone payments, the aforementioned sales-based milestones and royalties on net sales. Royalty
percentage rates are tiered based on net sales.         
   85   

Table of Contents  

    Note 3. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION       The segment information presented below is consistent with the financial information regularly reviewed by the chief operating decision maker for purposes of evaluating performance,
allocating resources, setting incentive compensation targets, and planning and forecasting future periods. After the split-off of Mead Johnson, and divestitures of ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses during the past two years, a single operating
segment remains, BioPharmaceuticals. This segment is engaged in the discovery, development, licensing, manufacturing, marketing, distribution and sale of innovative medicines that help patients prevail over serious diseases. A global research and
development organization and a global supply chain organization is utilized and responsible for the development and delivery of products to the market. Products are distributed and sold through four regional organizations that serve the United
States; Europe, Middle East and Africa; Other Western Hemisphere countries; Emerging Markets and Pacific. The business is also supported by global corporate staff functions.      Products are sold principally to wholesalers, and to a lesser extent, directly to distributors, retailers, hospitals, clinics, government agencies and pharmacies. Gross sales to the
three largest pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. as a percentage of total gross sales were as follows:       
    Selected geographic area
information was as follows:       
    Net sales of key products were as follows:       
    Capital expenditures and depreciation within the BioPharmaceuticals
segment were as follows:       
       
   86   

Table of Contents  

   The BioPharmaceuticals segment results exclude the impact of significant items not
indicative of current operating performance or ongoing results which include, amongst others, charges related to the implementation of productivity transformation initiative (PTI), gains or losses on the purchase or sale of product lines and
business assets and upfront licensing and milestone payments. Segment results also exclude earnings attributed to sanofi and other noncontrolling interest. The reconciliation to earnings from continuing operations before income taxes was as follows:
      
     Note 4. RESTRUCTURING       The productivity transformation initiative was designed to fundamentally change the way the business is run to meet the challenges of a changing business environment and to take advantage of the diverse
opportunities in the marketplace as the transformation into a next-generation biopharmaceutical company continues. Most initiatives under the PTI have been implemented resulting in the incurrence of approximately $1.3 billion in costs and the
recognition of $522 million in gains related to the sale of mature product lines and businesses. The Company is on target to create $2.5 billion in annual productivity cost savings and cost avoidance by 2012 of which approximately 90% is expected to
be realized by the end of 2010.      Subsequent to the PTI, a strategic process designed to achieve a culture of continuous
improvement to enhance efficiency, effectiveness and competitiveness and to continue to improve the cost base has been implemented.      The
following PTI charges were recognized:       
    Most of the accelerated depreciation, asset impairment
charges and other shutdown costs were included in cost of products sold and primarily relate to the rationalization of the manufacturing network in the BioPharmaceuticals segment. These assets continue to be depreciated until the facility closures
are complete. The remaining costs of PTI were primarily attributed to process standardization activities and are recognized as incurred.         
   87   

Table of Contents  

   Restructuring charges included termination benefits for workforce reductions of manufacturing, selling,
administrative, and research and development personnel across all geographic regions of approximately 1,350 in 2009, 2,370 in 2008 and 2,800 in 2007. The following table presents the detail of expenses incurred in connection with restructuring
activities:       
    The following table represents the activity of restructuring liabilities:       
     Note 5. MEDAREX, INC. ACQUISITION       On September 1, 2009, the Company acquired 100% of the remaining outstanding shares of Medarex not already owned and its outstanding stock options and restricted stock units upon completion of tender
offers that expired on August 27, 2009 and September 1, 2009. The total purchase price of $2.3 billion was allocated to the estimated fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as presented below. Acquisition costs were $11
million and classified as other (income)/expense. Medarex is a biopharmaceutical company focused on the discovery, development and commercialization of fully human antibody-based therapeutic products to address major unmet healthcare needs in the
areas of oncology, inflammation, autoimmune disorders and infectious diseases. As a result of the acquisition, the full rights over ipilimumab, currently in Phase III development, were received that increases the biologics development pipeline
creating a more balanced portfolio of both small molecules and biologics. This more balanced portfolio associated with the BioPharma model and potential to optimize the existing ipilimumab programs drives a significant amount of the goodwill arising
from this acquisition. Goodwill along with IPRD and other intangible assets valued in this acquisition are non-deductible for tax purposes and are assigned to the BioPharmaceutical segment.         
   88   

Table of Contents  

   The following purchase price allocation was adjusted after the September 30, 2009 quarterly report
filed on Form 10-Q to reflect the final purchase price valuation. The impact of these adjustments were immaterial to prior quarters  earnings.       

(1)  
  Other income of approximately $21 million was recognized from the remeasurement to fair value of the equity interest in Medarex held at the acquisition date.

(3)  
  Includes approximately $1.0 billion related to ipilimumab.     
 
    The
results of Medarex operations were included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements from August 27, 2009. Pro forma supplemental financial information is not provided as the impact of the acquisition was not material to operating
results.       Note 6. MEAD JOHNSON NUTRITION COMPANY INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING       In February 2009, Mead Johnson completed an initial public offering (IPO), in which it sold 34.5 million shares of its Class A common stock at $24 per share. Net proceeds
of $782 million, after deducting $46 million of underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses, were allocated to noncontrolling interest and capital in excess of par value of stock.      Upon completion of the IPO, 42.3 million shares of Mead Johnson Class A common stock and 127.7 million shares of Mead Johnson
Class B common stock were held by the Company, representing an 83.1% interest in Mead Johnson and 97.5% of the combined voting power of the outstanding common stock. The rights of the holders of the shares of Class A common stock and Class B
common stock were identical, except with regard to voting and conversion. Each share of Class A common stock was entitled to one vote per share. Each share of Class B common stock was entitled to ten votes per share and was convertible at any
time at the election of the holder into one share of Class A common stock. The Class B common stock automatically converted into shares of Class A common stock.      Various agreements related to the separation of Mead Johnson were entered into, including a separation agreement, a transitional services agreement, a tax matters agreement, a registration rights
agreement and an employee matters agreement.       Note 7. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS        Mead Johnson Nutrition Company Split-off       The split-off of the remaining interest in Mead Johnson was completed on December 23, 2009. The split-off was effected through the exchange offer of previously held 170 million shares of Mead
Johnson, after converting its Class B common stock to Class A common stock, for 269 million outstanding shares of the Company s stock resulting in a pre-tax gain of approximately $7.3 billion, $7.2 billion net of taxes.         
   89   

Table of Contents  

   The shares received in connection with the exchange were valued using the closing price on
December 23, 2009 of $25.70 and reflected as treasury stock. The gain on the exchange was determined using the sum of the fair value of the shares received plus the net deficit of Mead Johnson attributable to the Company less taxes and
other direct expenses related to the transaction, including a tax reserve of $244 million which was established.       ConvaTec Disposition
      In August 2008, the divestiture of the ConvaTec business to Cidron Healthcare Limited, an affiliate of Nordic Capital Fund
VII and Avista Capital Partners L.P. (Avista), was completed for a gross purchase price of approximately $4.1 billion, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $3.4 billion, $2.0 billion net of taxes.       Medical Imaging Disposition       In January 2008, the divestiture of Bristol-Myers Squibb Medical Imaging (Medical Imaging) to Avista was completed for a gross purchase price of approximately $525 million, resulting in a pre-tax gain of $25 million and an after-tax loss of
$43 million.       Transitional Relationships with Discontinued Operations       Subsequent to the respective dispositions, cash flows and income associated with the Mead Johnson, ConvaTec and the Medical Imaging businesses continued to be generated relating to
activities that are transitional in nature and generally result from agreements that are intended to facilitate the orderly transfer of business operations. The agreements include, among others, services for accounting, customer service,
distribution and manufacturing and generally expire no later than 18 months from the date of the divestiture. The income generated from these transitional activities is included in other (income)/expense and are not expected to be material to the
future results of operations or cash flows. Such activities related to ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses are substantially complete at December 31, 2009.      The following summarized financial information related to the Mead Johnson, ConvaTec and Medical Imaging businesses are segregated from continuing operations and reported as discontinued operations
through the date of disposition.       
       
   90   

Table of Contents  

    Note 8. EARNINGS PER SHARE       The computations for basic and diluted earnings per common share (EPS) were as follows:       
     Note 9. OTHER (INCOME)/EXPENSE       Other (income)/expense include:       
       
   91   

Table of Contents  

    Note 10. INCOME TAXES       The components of earnings from continuing operations before income taxes categorized based on the location of the taxing authorities were as follows:       
    The provision/(benefit) for income taxes attributable to continuing
operations consisted of:       
      Effective Tax Rate        The reconciliation of the effective tax rate to the U.S. statutory Federal income tax rate was:       
    The decrease in the 2009 effective tax rate from 2008 was primarily due to the unfavorable 2008 tax impact
related to IPRD and ARS impairment charges and to a lesser extent, a higher benefit in 2009 related to certain contingent matters.      The increase in the 2008 effective tax rate from 2007 was primarily due to higher pre-tax income in the U.S., including the gain on the sale of ImClone shares, and earnings mix in high tax jurisdictions in 2008. Partially offsetting these
factors were lower nondeductible charges in 2008 for IPRD and lower ARS impairment charges with little or no tax benefit. The tax rate in 2008 was favorably impacted by a benefit of $91 million of tax related to the final settlement of the 2002-2003
audit with the Internal Revenue Service.      The 2007 tax rate was unfavorably impacted by the impairment on the investment in
certain ARS with little tax benefit and the nondeductible write-off of IPRD related to the acquisition of Adnexus Therapeutics, Inc. (Adnexus), partially offset by a tax benefit of $105 million in the first quarter of 2007 due to the favorable
resolution of certain tax matters with the Internal Revenue Service related to the deductibility of litigation settlement expenses and U.S. foreign tax credits claimed.       
  
   92   

Table of Contents  

     Deferred Taxes and Valuation Allowance        The components of current and non-current deferred income tax assets/(liabilities) were as follows:       
    A valuation allowance against deferred tax assets is established when it is not more likely than not that
the deferred tax assets will be realized. At December 31, 2009, a valuation allowance of $1,791 million was established for the following items: $1,420 million for foreign net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, $357 million for state
deferred tax assets including net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards, $8 million for U.S. Federal net operating loss carryforwards, and $6 million related to impaired financial instruments.      The net operating loss carryforward was acquired as a result of the acquisitions of Medarex, Kosan Biosciences, Inc. (Kosan) and Adnexus and
is subject to limitations under Section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code. The net operating loss carryforward expires in varying amounts beginning in 2020. The foreign tax credit and research and development tax credit carryforwards expire in
varying amounts beginning in 2014. The realization of the foreign tax credit and research and development tax credit carryforwards is dependent on generating sufficient domestic-sourced taxable income prior to their expiration. Although realization
is not assured, management believes it is more likely than not that these deferred tax assets will be realized.      Income tax
payments were $885 million in 2009, $636 million in 2008 and $994 million in 2007. The 2008 income tax payments are net of a $432 million cash refund related to a foreign tax credit carryback claim to 2000 and 2001. The current tax benefit realized
upon the exercise of stock options is credited to capital in excess of par value of stock and was $5 million in 2009 and 2007.      At December 31, 2009, taxes have not been provided on approximately $16.5 billion of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries as these undistributed earnings have been invested or are expected to be permanently invested offshore.
If, in the future, these earnings are repatriated to the U.S., or if such earnings are determined to be remitted in the foreseeable future, additional tax provisions would be required. Due to complexities in the tax laws and the assumptions that
would have to be made, it is not practicable to estimate the amounts of income taxes that would have to be provided. President Obama s Administration has proposed reforms to the international tax laws that if adopted may increase taxes and
reduce the results of operations and cash flows.      Business is conducted in various countries throughout the world and is
subject to tax in numerous jurisdictions. As a result, a significant number of tax returns are filed and subject to examination by various Federal, state and local tax authorities. Tax examinations are often complex, as tax authorities may disagree
with the treatment of items reported and may require several years to
        
   93   

Table of Contents  

resolve. Liabilities are established for possible assessments by tax authorities resulting from known tax exposures including, but not limited to, transfer pricing matters, tax credits and
deductibility of certain expenses. Such liabilities represent a reasonable provision for taxes ultimately expected to be paid and may need to be adjusted over time as more information becomes known. The effect of changes in estimates related to
contingent tax liabilities is included in the effective tax rate reconciliation above.      The uncertain income tax positions
standard was adopted on January 1, 2007, resulting in the recognition of $27 million of previously unrecognized tax benefits which were accounted for as an increase to the opening balance of retained earnings. The standard requires the
following expanded disclosure at the end of each annual reporting period including a tabular reconciliation of unrecognized tax benefits and certain information regarding interest and penalty amounts reflected as part of the uncertain tax positions.
      
    Uncertain tax benefits at December 31, 2009 reduce deferred tax assets to the extent the uncertainty
directly related to that asset; otherwise, they are recognized as either current or non-current income taxes payable.         
   94   

Table of Contents  

   The balance of unrecognized tax benefits includes $116 million of uncertain tax positions at
January 1, 2009 and $4 million at December 31, 2009, for which the ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty as to the timing of such deductibility. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting, other
than interest and penalties, if applicable, the disallowance of the shorter deductibility period would not affect the annual effective tax rate, but would accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority or utilization of tax attributes to an
earlier period. The unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate were $675 million at January 1, 2009 and $964 million at December 31, 2009.      Gross additions to tax positions related to the current year include $287 million in tax reserves related to both the transfer of various international units to Mead Johnson prior to
its IPO and the split-off transaction which is recognized in discontinued operations. Gross reductions to tax positions related to prior years for 2009 include $10 million in liabilities related to Mead Johnson.      Interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits are classified as income tax expense.      The Company is currently under examination by a number of tax authorities, including all of the major tax jurisdictions listed in the table
below, which have proposed adjustments to tax for issues such as transfer pricing, certain tax credits and the deductibility of certain expenses. The Company estimates that it is reasonably possible that the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits
at December 31, 2009 will decrease in the range of approximately $65 million to $95 million in the next twelve months as a result of the settlement of certain tax audits and other events. The expected change in unrecognized tax benefits,
primarily settlement related, will involve the payment of additional taxes, the adjustment of certain deferred taxes and/or the recognition of tax benefits. The Company also anticipates that it is reasonably possible that new issues will be raised
by tax authorities which may require increases to the balance of unrecognized tax benefits; however, an estimate of such increases cannot reasonably be made at this time. The Company believes that it has adequately provided for all open tax years by
tax jurisdiction.      Income tax returns are filed in the U.S. Federal jurisdiction and various state and foreign jurisdictions.
With few exceptions, the Company is subject to U.S. Federal, state and local, and non-U.S. income tax examinations by tax authorities. The following is a summary of major tax jurisdictions for which tax authorities may assert additional taxes based
upon tax years currently under audit and subsequent years that will likely be audited:       
    On
January 26, 2010 the IRS announced a proposal that, if effective, would require many companies to disclose uncertain tax provisions in their annual income tax return filings. As proposed, the requirement would apply to certain business
taxpayers who have a financial statement prepared. A schedule or form would be included in the applicable tax returns annually.      As a result of the split-off, Mead Johnson will be filed as part of the Company s U.S. consolidated income tax return and various state combined tax returns through the split-off date. During 2009, the Company entered into a tax
sharing agreement with Mead Johnson. Payments made under the tax sharing agreement represent either Mead Johnson s share of the tax liability or reimbursement for utilization of certain tax attributes. The Company has agreed to indemnify Mead
Johnson for any outstanding tax liabilities or audit exposures (such as, income, sales and use, or property taxes) that existed for periods prior to the IPO.         
   95   

Table of Contents  

    Note 11. FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT       The fair value of financial assets and liabilities are classified in one of the following categories:      Level 1: Quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets that are accessible at the measurement date for identical assets or liabilities. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to Level 1
inputs.      Level 2: Observable prices that are based on inputs not quoted on active markets, but corroborated by market data.
     Level 3: Unobservable inputs are used when little or no market data is available. The fair value hierarchy gives the lowest
priority to Level 3 inputs.       
    A majority of the ARS were rated  A  by
Standard and Poor s, and primarily represent interests in insurance securitizations. Valuation models are utilized that rely exclusively on Level 3 inputs due to the lack of observable market quotes for the ARS portfolio. These inputs are based
on expected cash flow streams and collateral values including assessments of counterparty credit quality, default risk underlying the security, discount rates and overall capital market liquidity. The fair value of ARS was determined using
internally developed valuations that were based in part on indicative bids received on the underlying assets of the securities and other evidence of fair value. These investments are expected to be sold before recovery of their amortized cost basis
and any further decline in fair value will be considered other-than-temporary.         
   96   

Table of Contents  

   FRS are long-term debt securities with coupons that reset periodically against a benchmark
interest rate. During 2009, $141 million of principal at par for FRS was received. There were no known reported defaults of the FRS. The underlying assets of the FRS primarily consist of consumer loans, auto loans, collateralized loan obligations,
monoline securities, asset-backed securities and corporate bonds and loans. Due to the current lack of an active market for FRS and the general lack of transparency into their underlying assets, other qualitative analysis are relied upon to value
FRS including discussion with brokers and fund managers, default risk underlying the security and overall capital market liquidity (Level 3 inputs). Declines in fair value are reported as a temporary loss in other comprehensive income because there
are no intentions to sell these investments nor is it more likely than not that these investments will be required to be sold before recovery of their amortized cost basis.      For financial assets and liabilities that utilize Level 1 and Level 2 inputs, both direct and indirect observable price quotes are utilized, including LIBOR and EURIBOR yield curves,
foreign exchange forward prices, NYMEX futures pricing and common stock price quotes. Below is a summary of valuation techniques for Level 1 and Level 2 financial assets and liabilities:       

U.S. Government Agency Securities and U.S. Government Agency Money Market Funds    valued at the quoted market price from observable
pricing sources at the reporting date.          

Equity Securities    valued using quoted stock prices from New York Stock Exchange or National Association of Securities Dealers
Automated Quotation System at the reporting date.          

Prime Money Market Funds    net asset value of $1 per share.          

Corporate Debt Securities and Commercial Paper    valued at the quoted market price from observable pricing sources at the reporting
date.          

FDIC Insured Debt Securities    valued at the quoted market price from observable pricing sources at the reporting date.

U.S. Treasury Money Market Funds    valued at the quoted market price from observable pricing sources at the reporting date.

Foreign currency forward derivative assets and liabilities    valued using quoted forward foreign exchange prices at the reporting date.
Counterparties to these contracts are highly-rated financial institutions, none of which experienced any significant downgrades during 2009. Valuations may fluctuate considerably from period-to-period due to volatility in the underlying foreign
currencies. Short-term maturities of the foreign currency forward derivatives are 17 months or less, therefore, counterparty credit risk is not significant.          

Interest rate swap derivative assets and liabilities    valued using LIBOR and EURIBOR yield curves, less credit valuation adjustments,
at the reporting date. Counterparties to these contracts are highly-rated financial institutions, none of which experienced any significant downgrades during 2009. Valuations may fluctuate considerably from period-to-period due to volatility in
underlying interest rates, driven by market conditions and the duration of the swap. In addition, credit valuation adjustment volatility may have a significant impact on the valuation of interest rate swaps due to changes in counterparty credit
ratings and credit default swap spreads.            
   97   

Table of Contents  

    Note 12. CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND MARKETABLE SECURITIES       Cash and cash equivalents were $7,683 million at December 31, 2009 and $7,976 million at December 31, 2008 and consisted of prime
money market funds, government agency securities and treasury securities. Cash equivalents primarily consist of highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase and are recognized at cost, which
approximates fair value.      The following table summarizes current and non-current marketable securities, accounted for as  available for
sale  debt securities and equity securities:       
     
    The following table summarizes the activity for financial assets utilizing Level 3 fair value measurements:       
    The contractual maturities of  available for sale  debt securities at December 31, 2009 were
as follows:       
       
   98   

Table of Contents  

    Note 13. RECEIVABLES       Receivables include:       
    Receivables are netted with deferred income related to
alliance partners until recognition of income. As a result, alliance partner receivables and deferred income were reduced by $730 million and $566 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For additional information regarding
alliance partners, see   Note 2. Alliances and Collaborations.  Non-U.S. receivables sold on a nonrecourse basis were $660 million and $350 million in 2009 and 2008, respectively. In the aggregate, receivables due from three
pharmaceutical wholesalers in the U.S. represented 47% and 35% of total trade receivables at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.       Note 14. INVENTORIES       Inventories include:       
    Inventories expected to remain on-hand beyond one year
were $249 million and $185 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and included in non-current other assets. These amounts include capitalized costs related to production of products for programs in Phase III development subject to
final U.S. Food and Drug Administration approval of $49 million and $47 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The probability of future sales, as well as the status of the regulatory approval process, are considered in assessing
the recoverability of these costs.       Note 15. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT       Property, plant and equipment includes:       
    Depreciation expense was $469 million in 2009, $562
million in 2008 and $542 million in 2007, of which $51 million in 2009, $50 million in 2008 and $69 million in 2007 was included in discontinued operations. Capitalized interest was $13 million in 2009, $23 million in 2008 and $27 million in 2007.
        
   99   

Table of Contents  

    Note 16. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS       Changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by segment were as follows:       
    Other intangible assets include:       
    Changes in other intangible assets were as follows:       
    Amortization expense included in discontinued operations was $9 million in 2009, $12 million in 2008 and $79
million in 2007.      Expected future amortization expense of the December 31, 2009 finite-lived other intangible assets is
$258 million in 2010, $250 million in 2011, $215 million in 2012, $134 million in 2013, $117 million in 2014 and $416 million thereafter.       Note 17. ACCRUED EXPENSES       Accrued expenses include:       
       
   100   

Table of Contents  

    Note 18. EQUITY       Changes in common shares, treasury stock and capital in excess of par value of stock were as follows:       
    The accumulated balances related to each component of other comprehensive income/(loss) (OCI), net of taxes, were as
follows:       
    The reconciliation of noncontrolling interest was as follows:       
    Noncontrolling interest is primarily related to the partnerships with sanofi for the territory covering the
Americas for net sales of PLAVIX*. Net earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest are presented net of taxes of $589 million in 2009, $472 million in 2008 and $369 million in 2007, in the consolidated statements of earnings with a
corresponding increase to the provision for income taxes. Distribution of the partnership profits to sanofi and sanofi s funding of ongoing partnership operations occur on a routine basis and are included within operating activities in the
consolidated statements of cash flows. The above activity includes the pre-tax income and distributions related to these partnerships. Net earnings from noncontrolling interest included in discontinued operations was $69 million in 2009, and $7
million in 2008 and 2007.      Treasury stock is recognized at the cost to reacquire the shares. Treasury shares acquired from the
Mead Johnson split-off were recognized at the fair value of the stock as of the split-off date. Shares issued from treasury are recognized utilizing the first-in first-out method.         
   101   

Table of Contents  

    Note 19. PENSION, POSTRETIREMENT AND POSTEMPLOYMENT LIABILITIES       The Company and certain of its subsidiaries have defined benefit pension plans, defined contribution plans and termination indemnity plans
for regular full-time employees. The principal pension plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Retirement Income Plan in the U.S. which represents approximately 70% of the consolidated pension plan assets and obligations. The funding policy is to
contribute amounts to provide for current service and to fund past service liability. Plan benefits are based primarily on the participant s years of credited service and compensation. Plan assets consist principally of equity and fixed-income
securities.      Comprehensive medical and group life benefits are provided for substantially all U.S. retirees who elect to
participate in comprehensive medical and group life plans. The medical plan is contributory. Contributions are adjusted periodically and vary by date of retirement. The life insurance plan is noncontributory. Plan assets consist principally of
equity and fixed-income securities. Similar plans exist for employees in certain countries outside of the U.S.      The net periodic benefit cost
of defined benefit pension and postretirement benefit plans includes:       
    The U.S. Retirement Income Plan and several other plans were amended during June 2009. The amendments
eliminate the crediting of future benefits relating to service effective December 31, 2009. Salary increases will continue to be considered for an additional five-year period in determining the benefit obligation related to prior service. The
plan amendments were accounted for as a curtailment. As a result, the applicable plan assets and obligations were remeasured. The remeasurement resulted in a $455 million reduction to accumulated OCI ($295 million net of taxes) and a corresponding
decrease to the unfunded status of the plan due to the curtailment, updated plan asset valuations and a change in the discount rate from 7.0% to 7.5%. A curtailment charge of $25 million was also recognized in other (income)/expense during the
second quarter of 2009 for the remaining amount of unrecognized prior service cost. In addition, all participants were reclassified as inactive for benefit plan purposes and actuarial gains and losses will be amortized over the expected
weighted-average remaining lives of plan participants (32 years).      In connection with the plan amendment, contributions to
principal defined contribution plans in the U.S. and Puerto Rico are expected to increase effective January 1, 2010. The net impact of the above actions is expected to reduce the future retiree benefit costs, although future costs will continue
to be subject to market conditions and other factors including actual and expected plan asset performance, interest rate fluctuations and lump-sum benefit payments.      The U.S. Retirement Income Plan and several other plans were remeasured upon the transfer of certain plan assets and related obligations to new Mead Johnson plans for active Mead Johnson participants in
February 2009. The remeasurement resulted in a $170 million reduction to accumulated OCI ($110 million net of taxes) in the first quarter of 2009 and a corresponding decrease to the unfunded status of the plan due to updated plan asset valuations
and a change in the discount rate from 6.5% to 7.0%.      The net actuarial loss and prior service cost expected to be amortized
from accumulated OCI into net periodic benefit cost in 2010 are:       

Dollars in Millions   
      
   Pension Benefits   
      
   Other Benefits   

Amortization of net actuarial loss   
      
  $  
  95  
      
  $  
    10  

Amortization of prior service cost/(benefit)   

1  

(3  
  )    

$  
    96  
      
  $  
  7  

102   

Table of Contents  

   Changes in defined benefit and postretirement benefit plan obligations, assets, funded
status and amounts recognized in the consolidated balance sheets were as follows:       
    The above table includes activity related to Mead Johnson pension and postretirement plans. As part of the
separation activities, certain defined benefit pension and postretirement plan assets and liabilities were transferred to Mead Johnson defined benefit pension and postretirement plans. The related plan assets and liabilities for transferring
participants were allocated based on assumptions as set forth in an employee matters agreement.      The reduction in accumulated
postretirement benefit obligation for the impact of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 was $86 million in 2009, $96 million in 2008 and $98 million in 2007.      The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was $5,908 million and $5,418 million at December 31, 2009 and
2008, respectively.      Additional information related to pension plans was as follows:       
       
   103   

Table of Contents  

     Actuarial Assumptions        Weighted-average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations at December 31 were as follows:       
    Weighted-average actuarial assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years ended December 31 were as follows:       
    The yield on
high quality corporate bonds that matches the duration of the benefit obligations is used in determining the discount rate. The Citigroup Pension Discount curve is used in developing the discount rate for the U.S. plans.      Several factors are considered in developing the expected return on plan assets, including long-term historical returns and input from
external advisors. Individual asset class return forecasts were developed based upon market conditions, for example, price-earnings levels and yields and long-term growth expectations. The expected long-term rate of return is the weighted-average of
the target asset allocation of each individual asset class. Historical long-term actual annualized returns for U.S. pension plans were as follows:       
    The expected
return on plan assets was determined using the expected rate of return and a calculated value of assets, referred to as the  market-related value.  The market-related value exceeds the fair value of plan assets by $222 million and $1.1
billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The change was primarily driven by asset gains in 2009 offset by the additional recognition of significant losses incurred on plan assets in 2008. Differences between the assumed and actual
returns are amortized to the market-related value on a straight-line basis over a three-year period.      Gains and losses have
resulted from changes in actuarial assumptions (such as changes in the discount rate) and from differences between assumed and actual experience (such as differences between actual and assumed returns on plan assets). These gains and losses (except
those differences being amortized to the market-related value) are only amortized to the extent they exceed 10% of the higher of the market-related value or the projected benefit obligation for each respective plan. As a result, approximately $900
million related to pension benefits is not expected to be amortized during 2010. The majority of the remaining actuarial losses are amortized over the life expectancy of the plans  participants for U.S. plans and expected remaining service
periods for most other plans.      Assumed healthcare cost trend rates at December 31 were as follows:       
    Assumed
healthcare cost trend rates have an effect on the amounts reported for the healthcare plans. A one-percentage-point change in assumed healthcare cost trend rates would have the following effects:       

Dollars in Millions   
      
   1-Percentage- Point Increase   
      
   1-Percentage- Point Decrease   

Effect on total of service and interest cost   
      
  $  
  3  
      
  $  
  (1  
  )    
 
    Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   

27  

(21  
  )           
   104   

Table of Contents  

     Plan Assets        The fair value of pension and postretirement plan assets by asset category at December 31, 2009 was as follows:       
     Equity Securities    Securities classified as Level 1 include publicly traded equities traded on
a national securities exchange which are valued at their last reported sales price at the reporting date, and if there was not a sale that day, the last reported bid price. Publicly traded equities traded in the over-the-counter market are
valued at the last reported bid price at the reporting date. Securities classified as Level 2 are either valued upon offers to trade from brokers or dealers, or are valued at the net asset value of the shares held at year end, which is based on the
fair value of the underlying investments. Level 3 equity securities are valued at estimated fair value. The estimated fair value is based on the fair value of the underlying investment values or cost plus or minus accumulated earnings or losses
which approximates fair value.       Fixed Income Securities    Securities classified as Level 1 are valued at the quoted market price
from observable pricing sources at the reporting date.   Securities classified as Level 2 are either valued at quoted market prices from observable pricing sources at the reporting date or valued based upon comparable securities with similar
yield and credit ratings.         U.S. Treasury Bills    Securities classified as Level 1 are valued at the quoted
market price from observable pricing sources at the reporting date.       U.S. Government Agency Securities   
Securities classified as Level 1 are valued at the quoted market price from observable pricing sources at the reporting date.       Government Backed and Index Linked Government Securities    Securities classified as Level 2 are valued at the quoted market price from broker or dealer quotations from transparent pricing sources as the reporting date.
      Corporate Debt    Securities classified as Level 2 are either valued at quoted market prices from observable
pricing sources at the reporting date or valued based upon comparable securities with similar yields and credit ratings. Securities classified as Level 3 are valued from estimated bids from brokers or other third-party vendor sources that utilize
expected cash flow streams and other data including counterparty credit quality, default risk, discount rates and the overall capital market liquidity.       Short-Term Investments    Securities classified as Level 2 are valued at the net asset value of the shares held at year end, which is based on the fair value of the underlying investments.
      Mortgage and Asset Backed Securities    Securities classified as Level 2 are either valued at quoted market prices
from observable pricing sources at the reporting date or valued based upon comparable securities with similar yields, credit ratings and purpose of the underlying loan. Securities classified as Level 3 are valued from estimated bids from brokers or
other third-party vendor sources that utilize expected cash flow streams and other un-corroborated data including counterparty credit quality, default risk, discount rates and the overall capital market liquidity.       Hedge Funds    Securities classified as Level 2 are valued at the net asset value of the shares held at year end, which is based
on the fair value of the underlying investments.         
   105   

Table of Contents  

    Real Estate    Interests classified as Level 2 are either valued at quoted market
prices from observable pricing sources at the reporting date or valued based upon comparable investments. Interests classified as Level 3 are carried at the estimated fair value. The estimated fair value is based on the fair value of the underlying
investment values or cost plus or minus accumulated earnings or losses which approximates fair value.       Venture Capital and
Limited Partnerships    Interests classified as Level 3 are carried at estimated fair value. Estimated fair value is based on the fair value of the underlying investment values or cost plus or minus accumulated earnings or losses which
approximates fair value.       Insurance Contracts    Interests classified as Level 3 are carried at contract value,
which approximates the estimated fair value. The estimated fair value is based on the fair value of the underlying investment of the insurance company. Insurance contracts are held by certain non-U.S. pension plans.       Cash and cash equivalents    Securities classified as Level 1 are highly liquid investments with original maturities of three
months or less at the time of purchase and are recognized at cost, which approximates fair value.      The following summarizes the activity for
financial assets utilizing Level 3 fair value measurements:       
    The investment strategy emphasizes equities in order to achieve higher expected returns and lower expenses
and required cash contributions over the long-term. A target asset allocation of 70% public equity (58% U.S. and 12% international), 8% private equity and 22% fixed income is maintained for the U.S. pension plans. Cash contributions and benefit
payments are used to rebalance back to the targets as necessary. Investments are well diversified within each of the three major asset categories. Approximately 81% of the U.S. pension plans equity investments are actively managed. Investment
strategies for international pension plans are typically similar, although the asset allocations are usually more conservative. Private equity is typically valued on a three month lag. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company common stock represents less than
1% of the plan assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008.        Contributions        Contributions to the U.S. pension plans were $656 million in 2009 (including $27 million by Mead Johnson), $250 million in 2008 and $238 million in 2007.
Contributions to the U.S. pension plans are expected to approximate $330 million during 2010, of which $300 million was contributed in January 2010.      Contributions to the international pension plans were $133 million in 2009, $176 million in 2008 and $85 million in 2007. Contributions to the international plans are expected to range from $85 million to $100 million in 2010.   
    Estimated Future Benefit Payments         
       
   106   

Table of Contents  

     Savings Plan        The principal defined contribution plan is the Bristol-Myers Squibb Savings and Investment Program. The contribution is based on employee contributions and the level of Company match. The contributions to
the plan were $50 million in 2009, $58 million in 2008 and $60 million in 2007.      As discussed above, the U.S. Retirement
Income Plan and several other plans were amended. Certain enhancements were made to the defined contribution plan allowing for increased matching and additional contributions. Contributions to the defined contribution plans are expected to be
approximately $150 million in 2010.        Post Employment Benefit Plan        Long-term disability benefits are offered to certain employees. These post employment liabilities were $93 million and $94 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The expense related to
these benefits was $21 million in 2009, $26 million in 2008 and $17 million in 2007.        Termination Indemnity Plans        The Company has certain statutory termination obligations in Europe. These obligations are recognized on an undiscounted basis assuming employee termination
at each measurement date. The liability recognized for these obligations was $49 million at December 31, 2009, $55 million at December 31, 2008, and $64 million at December 31, 2007. The vested benefit obligations are recognized
assuming employee separation at the measurement date.       Note 20. EMPLOYEE STOCK BENEFIT PLANS        Employee Stock Plans       On
May 1, 2007, the shareholders approved the 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the 2007 Plan). The 2007 Plan replaced the 2002 Stock Incentive Plan (the 2002 Plan) that expired on May 31, 2007. The 2007 Plan provides for 42 million
new shares of common stock reserved for delivery to participants, plus shares remaining available for new grants under the 2002 Plan and shares recaptured from outstanding awards under the 2002 Plan. Only shares actually delivered to participants in
connection with an award after all restrictions have lapsed will reduce the number of shares reserved. Shares tendered in a prior year to pay the purchase price of options and shares previously utilized to satisfy withholding tax obligations upon
exercise continue to be available and reserved. Shares of common stock reserved for issuance pursuant to stock plans, options and conversions of preferred stock were 346 million and 350 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
respectively. Shares available to be granted for the active plans were 92 million and 100 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, adjusted for the combination of plans.      Under the 2007 Plan and the 2002 Plan, executive officers and key employees may be granted options to purchase common stock at no less than
100% of the market price on the date the option is granted. Options generally become exercisable in installments of 25% per year on each of the first through the fourth anniversaries of the grant date and have a maximum term of 10 years.
Generally, shares for the stock option exercise are issued from treasury stock. Additionally, the plan provides for the granting of stock appreciation rights whereby the grantee may surrender exercisable rights and receive common stock and/or cash
measured by the excess of the market price of the common stock over the option exercise price. Stock appreciation rights of 139 thousand were outstanding and accounted for as liability awards at December 31, 2009.      The 2007 Plan and the 2002 Plan provide for the granting of common stock to key employees, subject to restrictions as to continuous
employment. Restrictions generally expire over a four year period from date of grant. Compensation expense is recognized over the restricted period. Restricted stock units have been granted instead of restricted stock since 2007. A stock unit is a
right to receive stock at the end of the specified vesting period but has no voting rights.      The 2007 Plan and the 2002 Plan
also incorporated long-term performance awards. These awards have a three year cycle and are delivered in the form of a target number of performance share units. The number of shares ultimately issued is calculated based on actual performance
compared to earnings targets and other performance criteria established at the beginning of the performance period. The awards have annual goals with a maximum payout of 165% since 2007. If threshold targets are not met for a performance period, no
payment is made under the plan for that annual period.         
   107   

Table of Contents  

   Stock-based compensation expense was as follows:       
    The alternative method to determine the pool of excess
tax benefits was elected.       Stock Options       Stock option activities were as follows:      
    At December 31, 2009, unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options was $95 million
and expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.3 years.      Additional information related to stock option
grants and exercises under both the 2007 Plan and the 2002 Plan are summarized as follows:       
    The following table
summarizes information concerning stock compensation plans and currently outstanding and exercisable options:       

Shares in Millions   
      
   Number of Securities     to be Issued Upon Exercise of Outstanding Options and Rights   
      
   Weighted-Average     Exercise 
    Price of Outstanding Options and Rights    
 
    Plan Category   

Equity compensation plans approved by shareholders   
      
  125  
      
  $  
  29.72   
 
    Equity compensation plans not approved by shareholders (plan terminated - shares no longer issued)   
      
  7  

33.44   

132  

29.91   

108   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes significant ranges of outstanding and exercisable options at
December 31, 2009 (amounts in millions, except per share data):       
    The aggregate intrinsic value in the preceding table represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value,
based on the closing stock price of $25.25 on December 31, 2009, which would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options as of that date. There were 26 million of in-the-money options exercisable
at December 31, 2009. There were 99 million outstanding options exercisable at a weighted-average exercise price of $39.16 at December 31, 2008.      The fair value of stock options was estimated on the grant date using the Black-Scholes option pricing model for stock options with a service condition, and the Monte Carlo simulation model for options
with service and market conditions. The following weighted-average assumptions were used in the valuation:       
    The
expected volatility assumption required in the Black-Scholes model was derived by calculating a 10-year historical volatility and weighting that equally with the derived implied volatility. The blended historical and implied volatility approach of
expected volatility is believed to be more representative of future stock price trends than using only historical volatility.      The risk-free interest rate assumption is based upon the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect on the grant date. The dividend yield assumption is based on historical and expected dividend payouts.      The expected life of stock options represents the weighted-average period the stock options will remain outstanding and is a derived output
of a lattice-binomial model. The expected life is impacted by all of the underlying assumptions and calibration of the model. The model assumes that employees  exercise behavior is a function of the option s remaining vested life and the
extent to which the option is in-the-money. The model estimates the probability of exercise as a function of these two variables based on historical exercises and cancellations on prior option grants made.      Stock-based compensation expense is based on awards ultimately expected to vest. Forfeitures are estimated based on historical experience at
the time of grant and revised in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.      Adnexus was acquired
on October 19, 2007. In connection with the acquisition 24 million shares of Adnexus incentive stock options (ISOs) were assumed and replaced with 0.6 million shares of Company ISOs. The converted options retained their original
vesting schedules, including the vesting commencement date, as well as the expiration date. A Black-Scholes model was used to determine the expected term and the individual ISOs valuations. The result was a weighted-average expected term of 5.2
years and a weighted-average fair value on October 19, 2007 of $20.34.         
   109   

Table of Contents  

    Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Units        
    At December 31,
2009, unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested restricted stock was $159 million and expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.6 years. The fair value of nonvested shares of restricted stock awards and units is
determined based on the closing trading price of the Company s common stock on the grant date.       Long-Term Performance Awards
      The fair value of the 2006 through 2008 performance awards were estimated on the date of grant using a Monte Carlo
simulation model due to a market condition. The model utilizes multiple input variables that determine the probability of satisfying each market condition stipulated in the grant and calculates the fair value for the long-term performance awards.
Fair value of the 2007 to 2009, 2008 to 2010 and 2009 to 2011 performance awards was based on the closing trading price of common stock on the grant date, because these awards do not contain a market condition. The fair value of awards granted in
2007, 2008 and 2009 were discounted using the risk-free interest rate on the date of grant because they do not participate in dividends.      The
valuation model for the 2006 through 2008 performance award used the following assumptions:       
    Weighted-average expected volatility is based on the three year historical volatility levels on the Company s common stock. Expected dividend yield is based on historical dividend payments. Risk-free interest rate reflects the yield on
five year zero coupon U.S. Treasury bonds, based on the performance shares  contractual term. The fair value of the performance awards is amortized over the performance period of the award.      Performance share units granted were 1.4 million in 2009 and 1.2 million in 2008. Assuming a 100% payout, the share units
outstanding were 2.5 million and 1.6 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. There were 568 thousand shares issued in 2009. At December 31, 2009, unrecognized compensation cost related to the performance share
unit plan was $20 million and expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.2 years.         
   110   

Table of Contents  

    Note 21. SHORT-TERM BORROWINGS AND LONG-TERM DEBT       Short-term borrowings include:       
    As part of the Medarex acquisition, Medarex s
outstanding 2.25% Convertible Senior Notes due May 15, 2011 were assumed. These Notes were adjusted into the right to receive $1,167 in cash at any time for each $1,000 principal amount outstanding (the equivalent of $16 per share) at any time
prior to maturity.      Long-term debt includes:       
    All or a portion of the Floating Rate Convertible Senior Debentures due 2023 can be redeemed by the holders
at par on September 15, 2013 and 2018, or if a fundamental change in ownership of occurs. The Debentures are callable at par at any time by the Company. The Debentures have a conversion price of $40.83, equal to a conversion rate of 24.4922
shares for each $1,000 principal amount, subject to certain anti-dilutive adjustments. The maximum conversion rate is 38.7597 shares for each $1,000 principal amount. The Debentures pay interest quarterly at an annual rate equal to the three month
LIBOR, reset quarterly, minus 0.50% (the yield never to be less than zero).      In February 2009, Mead Johnson   Company
as borrower and Mead Johnson as guarantor, both of which were indirect, majority-owned subsidiaries, entered into a three year syndicated revolving credit facility agreement. In the fourth quarter of 2009, Mead Johnson borrowed $200 million under
the revolving credit facility and issued various Notes totaling $1.5 billion, the proceeds of which were used to repay certain intercompany debt prior to the split-off.       
  
   111   

Table of Contents  

   During 2009, $117 million of notional debt was repurchased and $53 million notional amount of interest rate
swaps related to the debt repurchases was terminated. The following table summarizes the activity:       
    During 2009, several fixed-to-floating interest rate
swaps were executed to convert $797 million of 5.45% Notes due 2018 and 5.25% Notes due 2013 from fixed rate debt to variable rate debt. During 2009, $1,061 million notional amount of fixed-to-floating interest rate swap agreements were terminated
for proceeds of $187 million. The basis adjustment on the debt, which was equal to the proceeds from this swap termination, is being recognized as a reduction to interest expense over the remaining life of the underlying debt. For further discussion
of interest rate swaps, see   Note 22. Financial Instruments.       In January 2010, fixed-to-floating interest
rate swaps were executed to convert $332 million of the 6.80% Debentures due 2026 and $147 million of the 7.15% Debentures due 2023 from fixed rate debt to variable rate debt. These swaps qualified as a fair value hedge for each debt instrument.
     Interest payments, including payments for interest rate swaps, were $397 million in 2009, $539 million in 2008 and $610
million in 2007. Cash receipts from interest rate swaps were $191 million in 2009, $236 million in 2008 and $210 million in 2007 and excluded from interest payments.      The principal value of long-term debt obligations were $5,622 million at December 31, 2009 of which $650 million is due in 2013, and the remaining $4,972 million is due later than 2013. The fair
value of long-term debt was $6,258 million and $6,537 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and was estimated based upon the quoted market prices for the same or similar debt instruments. The fair value of short-term borrowings
approximates the carrying value due to the short maturities of the debt instruments.      A $2.0 billion five year revolving
credit facility from a syndicate of lenders maturing in December 2011 is maintained. The facility is extendable with the consent of the lenders and contains customary terms and conditions, including a financial covenant whereby the ratio of
consolidated net debt to consolidated capital cannot exceed 50% at the end of each quarter. The Company has been in compliance with this covenant since the inception of the facility. There were no borrowings outstanding under the facility at
December 31, 2009 and 2008.      At December 31, 2009, $178 million of financial guarantees were provided in the form of
stand-by letters of credit and performance bonds. The stand-by letters of credit are with insurance companies in support of third-party liability programs. The performance bonds were issued to support a range of ongoing operating activities,
including sale of products to hospitals and foreign ministries of health, bonds for customs, duties and value added tax and guarantees related to miscellaneous legal actions. A significant majority of the outstanding financial guarantees will expire
within the year and are not expected to be funded.         
   112   

Table of Contents  

    Note 22. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS       There is exposure to market risk due to changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. As a result, certain derivative financial instruments are used when available on a
cost-effective basis to hedge the underlying economic exposure. The primary net foreign currency translation exposures are the euro, Japanese yen, Canadian dollar, British pound, Australian dollar, Mexican peso and Chinese renminbi. Foreign currency
forward contracts are used to manage these exposures. These instruments generally qualify for cash flow hedge accounting treatment and are managed on a consolidated basis to efficiently net exposures and thus take advantage of any natural offsets.
     Derivative instruments are also used as part of the interest rate risk management strategy. The derivative instruments used
are principally comprised of fixed-to-floating rate interest swaps, which generally qualify for fair-value hedge accounting treatment. In addition, all of the financial instruments, including derivatives, are subject to counterparty credit risk
which is considered as part of the overall fair value measurement. Derivative financial instruments are not used for trading purposes.       Cash Flow Hedges        Foreign Currency Forward Contracts    Foreign currency forward contracts are
utilized to hedge forecasted intercompany and other transactions for certain foreign currencies. These contracts are designated as foreign currency cash flow hedges when appropriate. The notional and fair value amounts of these contracts were $1,511
million and $10 million net liabilities and $1,151 million and $49 million net assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The majority of these contracts qualify as hedges of probable forecasted cash flows and the effective portion of
changes in fair value is temporarily reported in accumulated OCI and recognized in earnings when the hedged item affects earnings.      The following table summarizes outstanding foreign currency forward contracts at December 31, 2009. The fair value of these contracts is based on year-end currency rates and should be viewed in relation to the fair value of the
underlying hedged transactions and the overall reduction in exposure to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.           
    Deferred losses on foreign currency forward contracts qualifying for cash flow hedge accounting
were $16 million ($11 million net of taxes) at December 31, 2009 and are expected to be reclassified to earnings within the next 17 months.      Effectiveness is assessed at the inception of the hedge and on a quarterly basis. The assessments determine whether derivatives designated as qualifying hedges continue to be highly effective in
offsetting changes in the cash flows of hedged items. Any ineffective portion of the change in fair value is included in current period earnings. The impact of hedge ineffectiveness on earnings was not significant in 2009, 2008 and 2007. Cash flow
hedge accounting is discontinued when the forecasted transaction is no longer probable of occurring on the originally forecasted date, or 60 days thereafter, or when the hedge is no longer effective. Discontinued foreign exchange hedges resulted in
a pre-tax loss of $6 million in 2009 and reported in other (income)/expense.         
   113   

Table of Contents  

    Non-Qualifying Foreign Currency Forward Contracts       Foreign currency forward contracts are also utilized to hedge foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities. The primary
objective of these contracts is to protect the U.S. dollar value of foreign currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities from the effects of volatility in foreign exchange rates that might occur prior to their receipt or settlement in U.S.
dollars. These contracts are not designated as hedges and are adjusted to fair value through other (income)/expense as they occur, and substantially offset the change in fair value of the underlying foreign currency denominated monetary asset or
liability. The notional and fair value amounts of these contracts were not significant at December 31, 2009 and 2008.      Furthermore, foreign currency forward contracts are also used to offset exposure to certain assets and liabilities and earnings denominated in certain foreign currencies. These contracts are not designated as hedges; therefore, changes in
the fair value are recognized in other (income)/expense as they occur. Contracts of this nature were not held at December 31, 2009. In the first quarter of 2010, foreign currency forward contracts were used to hedge anticipated earnings
denominated in Australian and Canadian dollars. These contracts are not designated as qualifying hedges and, therefore, gains or losses on these derivatives will be recognized in other (income)/expense as they occur.       Hedge of Net Investment       Non-U.S. dollar borrowings, primarily the  500 Million Notes due 2016 and the  500 Million Notes due 2021, ($1.4 billion total), are used to hedge the foreign currency exposures of the net investment in certain foreign affiliates.
These borrowings are designated as a hedge of a net investment. The effective portion of foreign exchange gains or losses is recognized in the foreign currency translation (CTA) component of accumulated OCI, including $169 million related to the
translation of the Notes at December 31, 2009. The ineffective portion of the Notes was recognized as a $6 million loss in 2009 and a $9 million gain in 2008.       Fair Value Hedges        Interest Rate Contracts    Derivative
instruments are used as part of an interest rate risk management strategy, principally fixed-to-floating interest rate swaps that are designated as fair-value hedges. The total notional amounts and fair value of outstanding interest rate swaps were
$3.7 billion and $160 million net assets and $4.0 billion and $647 million net assets at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively.      The swaps and underlying debt for the benchmark risk being hedged are recognized at fair value. Swaps are intended to create an appropriate balance of fixed and floating rate debt. The basis adjustment to
debt with qualifying fair value hedging relationships is amortized to earnings as an adjustment to interest expense over the remaining life of the debt when the underlying swap is terminated prior to maturity.      Terminated swaps that qualify as cash flow hedges are recognized in accumulated OCI and amortized to earnings over the remaining life of the
debt when the hedged debt remains outstanding.         
   114   

Table of Contents  

   The following summarizes the earnings impact from terminated interest rate swaps during 2009, 2008 and 2007:
      
    The following summarizes the interest rate swaps outstanding at
December 31, 2009:       
    The impact on earnings from interest rate swaps that qualified as fair value hedges was as follows:       
    The following summarizes the fair value of outstanding derivatives:

115   

Table of Contents  

   The impact on OCI and earnings from foreign currency forward contracts, natural gas contracts, and forward
starting swaps that qualified as cash flow hedges was as follows:       
    The impact on OCI and earnings from non-derivative debt designated as a hedge of net investment was as follows:   
   
    The impact on earnings from non-qualifying derivatives recognized in other (income)/expense for the years
ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 was not significant.      The derivative financial instruments present certain market and
counterparty risks; however, concentration of counterparty risk is mitigated by using banks worldwide with Standard   Poor s and Moody s long-term debt ratings of A or higher. In addition, only conventional derivative financial
instruments are utilized. The consolidated financial statements would not be materially impacted if any counterparties failed to perform according to the terms of its agreement. Currently, collateral or any other form of securitization is not
required to be furnished by the counterparties to derivative financial instruments.      For a discussion on the fair value of
financial instruments, see   Note 11. Fair Value Measurement.        Note 23. LEASES       Minimum rental commitments for non-cancelable operating leases (primarily real estate and motor vehicles) in effect at December 31, 2009, were as
follows:       
    Operating lease expense was $149 million in 2009, $179
million in 2008 and $166 million in 2007 (net of sublease income of $17 million in 2009, $16 million in 2008 and $17 million in 2007), of which $17 million in 2009, $12 million in 2008 and $10 million in 2007 was included in discontinued operations.
     In 2008, a sale and leaseback of an administrative facility in Paris, France was completed for $227 million ( 155
million), resulting in a pre-tax gain of $111 million. Most of the gain was deferred and will reduce future lease costs over the lease period of 9 years.         
   116   

Table of Contents  

    Note 24. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS AND CONTINGENCIES       The Company and certain of its subsidiaries are involved in various lawsuits, claims, government investigations and other legal proceedings that arise from time to time in the
ordinary course of the business relating to product liability, patent, commercial, consumer, environmental and securities matters. The Company recognizes accruals for such contingencies when it is probable that a liability will be incurred and the
amount of loss can be reasonably estimated. Significant litigation charges were $132 million in 2009, $33 million in 2008 and $14 million in 2007, net of revised estimates to previously accrued amounts. Cash payments related to significant
litigation were $139 million in 2009, $210 million in 2008 and $318 million in 2007. The most significant of these matters are described below.      Although the Company believes it has substantial defenses in these matters, the Company could in the future incur judgments or enter into settlements that could have a material adverse effect on the
results of operations for any particular period.       INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY        PLAVIX* Litigation       PLAVIX* is currently the Company s largest product
ranked by net sales. The PLAVIX* patents are subject to a number of challenges in the U.S., including the litigation with Apotex Inc. and Apotex Corp. (Apotex) described below, and in other less significant markets for the product. It is not
reasonably possible to estimate the impact of these lawsuits on the Company. However, loss of market exclusivity of PLAVIX* and sustained generic competition in the U.S. would be material to the Company s net sales of PLAVIX*, results of
operations and cash flows, and could be material to the Company s financial condition and liquidity. The Company and its product partner, sanofi, (the Companies) intend to vigorously pursue enforcement of their patent rights in PLAVIX*.
      PLAVIX* Litigation   U.S.        Patent Infringement Litigation against Apotex and Related Matters       As previously disclosed, the Company s
U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with sanofi is a plaintiff in a pending patent infringement lawsuit instituted in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York (District Court) entitled Sanofi-Synthelabo,
Sanofi-Synthelabo, Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership v. Apotex. The suit is based on U.S. Patent No. 4,847,265 (the  265 Patent), a composition of matter patent, which discloses and claims, among
other things, the hydrogen sulfate salt of clopidogrel, a medicine made available in the U.S. by the Companies as PLAVIX*. Also, as previously reported, the District Court upheld the validity and enforceability of the  265 Patent, maintaining
the main patent protection for PLAVIX* in the U.S. until November 2011. The District Court also ruled that Apotex s generic clopidogrel bisulfate product infringed the  265 Patent and permanently enjoined Apotex from engaging in any
activity that infringes the  265 Patent, including marketing its generic product in the U.S. until after the patent expires.      Apotex appealed the District Court s decision and on December 12, 2008, the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit (Circuit Court) affirmed the District Court s ruling sustaining the validity of the  265
Patent. Apotex filed a petition with the Circuit Court for a rehearing  en banc , and in March 2009, the Circuit Court denied Apotex s petition. The case has been remanded to the District Court for further proceedings relating to damages.
In July 2009, Apotex filed a petition for writ of certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court requesting the Supreme Court to review the Circuit Court s decision. In November 2009, the U.S. Supreme Court denied the petition, declining to review the
Circuit Court s decision. In December 2009, the Company filed a motion in the District Court for summary judgment on damages, and in January 2010, Apotex filed a motion seeking a stay of the ongoing damages proceedings pending the outcome of
the reexamination of the PLAVIX* patent by the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office (PTO) described below. These motions are pending.      As previously disclosed, the Company s U.S. territory partnership under its alliance with sanofi is also a plaintiff in five additional pending patent infringement lawsuits against Dr. Reddy s Laboratories, Inc. and
Dr. Reddy s Laboratories, LTD (Dr. Reddy s), Teva Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc. (Teva), Cobalt Pharmaceuticals Inc. (Cobalt), Watson Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Watson Laboratories, Inc. (Watson) and Sun Pharmaceuticals (Sun). The lawsuits
against Dr. Reddy s, Teva and Cobalt relate to the  265 Patent. In May 2009, Dr Reddy s signed a consent judgment in favor of sanofi and BMS conceding the validity and infringement of the  265 Patent. As previously reported,
the patent infringement actions against Teva and Cobalt were stayed pending resolution of the Apotex litigation, and the parties to those actions agreed to be bound by the outcome of the litigation against Apotex. Consequently, on July 12,
2007, the District Court entered judgments against Cobalt and Teva and permanently enjoined Cobalt and Teva from engaging in any activity that infringes the  265 Patent until after the Patent expires. Cobalt and Teva each filed an appeal. In
July 2009, the Circuit Court issued a mandate in the Teva appeal binding Teva to the decision in the Apotex litigation. In August 2009, Cobalt consented to entry of judgment in its appeal agreeing to be bound by Circuit Court s decision in the
Apotex litigation. The lawsuit against Watson, filed in October 2004, is based on U.S. Patent No. 6,429,210 (the  210 Patent), which discloses and claims a particular crystalline or polymorph form of the hydrogen sulfate salt of
clopidogrel, which is marketed as PLAVIX*. In December
        
   117   

Table of Contents  

2005, the court permitted Watson to pursue its declaratory judgment counterclaim with respect to U.S. Patent No. 6,504,030. In January 2006, the Court approved the parties  stipulation
to stay this case pending the outcome of the trial in the Apotex matter. On May 1, 2009, BMS and Watson entered into a stipulation to dismiss the case. In April 2007, Pharmastar filed a request for  inter partes  reexamination of the
 210 Patent at the PTO. The PTO granted this request in July of 2007 and in July 2009, the PTO vacated the reexamination proceeding. The lawsuit against Sun, filed on July 11, 2008, is based on infringement of the  265 Patent and the
 210 Patent. With respect to the  265 Patent, Sun has agreed to be bound by the outcome of the Apotex litigation. Each of Dr. Reddy s, Teva, Cobalt, Watson and Sun have filed an aNDA with the FDA, and, with respect to
Dr. Reddy s, Teva, Cobalt and Watson all exclusivity periods and statutory stay periods under the Hatch-Waxman Act have expired. Accordingly, final approval by the FDA would provide each company authorization to distribute a generic
clopidogrel bisulfate product in the U.S., subject to various legal remedies for which the Companies may apply including injunctive relief and damages.      On June 1, 2009, Apotex filed a request for  ex parte  reexamination of the  265 Patent at the PTO and in August 2009, the PTO agreed to reexamine the patent. In December 2009, the PTO
issued a non-final office action rejecting several claims covering PLAVIX* including the claim that was previously upheld in the litigation against Apotex referred to above. Sanofi intends to respond to the office action in February 2010.
     It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the reexamination of the  265 Patent by the PTO, or
the other PLAVIX* patent litigations or the timing of any renewed generic competition for PLAVIX* from Apotex or additional generic competition for PLAVIX* from other third-party generic pharmaceutical companies. Loss of market exclusivity for
PLAVIX* and/or sustained generic competition would be material to the Company s sales of PLAVIX*, results of operations and cash flows, and could be material to the Company s financial condition and liquidity. Additionally, it is not
possible at this time reasonably to assess the amount of damages that could be recovered by the Company and Apotex s ability to pay such damages in the event the Company prevails in the patent litigation.      Additionally, on November 13, 2008, Apotex filed the lawsuit in New Jersey Superior Court entitled,  Apotex Inc., et al. v.
sanofi-aventis, et al ., seeking payment of $60 million, plus interest, related to the break-up of the proposed settlement agreement.       PLAVIX* Litigation   International        PLAVIX*   Australia       As previously disclosed, sanofi was notified that, in August 2007, GenRx Proprietary Limited (GenRx) obtained regulatory approval of an
application for clopidogrel bisulfate 75mg tablets in Australia. GenRx, formerly a subsidiary of Apotex, has since changed its name to Apotex. In August 2007, Apotex filed an application in the Federal Court of Australia seeking revocation of
sanofi s Australian Patent No. 597784 (Case No. NSD 1639 of 2007). Sanofi filed counterclaims of infringement and sought an injunction. On September 21, 2007, the Australian court granted sanofi s injunction. A subsidiary of the
Company was subsequently added as a party to the proceedings. In February 2008, a second company, Spirit Pharmaceuticals Pty. Ltd., also filed a revocation suit against the same patent. This case was consolidated with the Apotex case and a trial
occurred in April 2008. On August 12, 2008, the Federal Court of Australia held that claims of Patent No. 597784 covering clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, and taurocholate salts are valid. The Federal Court also held
that the process claims, pharmaceutical composition claims, and claim directed to clopidogrel and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts are invalid. In view of this decision, it is possible a generic company could develop and seek registration in
Australia for an alternate salt form of clopidogrel (other than bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, or taurocholate). The Company and sanofi filed notices of appeal in the Full Court of the Federal Court of Australia (Full Court) appealing the
holding of invalidity of the claim covering clopidogrel and its pharmaceutically acceptable salts, process claims, and pharmaceutical composition claims which have stayed the Federal Court s ruling. Apotex filed a notice of appeal appealing the
holding of validity of the clopidogrel bisulfate, hydrochloride, hydrobromide, and taurocholate claims. A hearing on the appeals occurred in February 2009. On September 29, 2009, the Full Federal Court of Australia held all of the claims of
Patent No. 597784 invalid. In November 2009, the Company and sanofi applied to the High Court of Australia for special leave to appeal the judgment of the Full Court.       PLAVIX*   EU       As previously disclosed, in 2007, YES Pharmaceutical
Development Services GmbH (YES Pharmaceutical) filed an application for marketing authorization in Germany for an alternate salt form of clopidogrel. This application relied on data from studies that were originally conducted by sanofi and BMS for
PLAVIX*. In May 2008, the German health authority (Bfarm) granted marketing authorization to the YES Pharmaceutical product. Data protection for PLAVIX* did not expire until July 2008. Sanofi and BMS filed an objection to the grant of the marketing
authorization on the grounds that their data exclusivity rights had been infringed. YES Pharmaceutical and its partners sought immediate enforcement of the marketing authorization, which was denied by Bfarm. YES Pharmaceutical and its partners then
filed a legal motion for immediate enforcement before the administrative court, which was granted. YES Pharmaceutical s partners, Hexal and Ratiopharm, began and continue to market the product in Germany. Sanofi and BMS appealed the decision of
the administrative court, but this appeal was rejected by the administrative appeal court. The third- party objection before Bfarm was dismissed by Bfarm. Sanofi and BMS have appealed this decision to the administrative court in Cologne. This matter
is currently pending.         
   118   

Table of Contents  

    PLAVIX*   Canada (Apotex, Inc.)       On April 22, 2009, Apotex filed an impeachment action against sanofi in the Federal Court of Canada alleging that sanofi s Canadian Patent No. 1,336,777 (the  777
Patent) is invalid. The  777 Patent covers clopidogrel bisulfate and was the patent at issue in the prohibition action in Canada previously disclosed in which the Canadian Federal Court of Ottawa rejected Apotex s challenge to the
 777 Patent, held that the asserted claims are novel, not obvious and infringed, and granted sanofi s application for an order of prohibition against the Minister of Health and Apotex, precluding approval of Apotex s Abbreviated New
Drug Submission until the patent expires in 2012, which decision was affirmed on appeal by both the Federal Court of Appeal and the Supreme Court of Canada. On June 8, 2009, sanofi filed its defense to the impeachment action and filed a suit
against Apotex for infringement of the  777 Patent.       PLAVIX*   Canada (Cobalt)       As previously disclosed, sanofi and Sanofi-Synthelabo Canada instituted a prohibition action in the Federal Court of Canada against Cobalt
and the Minister of Health in response to a NOA from Cobalt directed against the  777 Patent and Canadian Patent No. 2,334,870 (the  870 Patent). Cobalt s NOA indicated that it has filed an ANDS for clopidogrel bisulfate tablets
and that it sought a Notice of Compliance for that ANDS before the expiration of the  777 and  870 Patents. Cobalt alleged that the  777 Patent was invalid and that the  870 Patent was invalid and not infringed. Following the
Supreme Court of Canada decision in  Apotex Inc. v. Sanofi-Synthelabo Canada Inc. , 2008 SCC 61, dismissing Apotex s appeal and upholding the validity of the  777 Patent as described above, the Federal Court of Canada granted
sanofi s application for an order of prohibition against the Minister of Health and Cobalt precluding approval of Cobalt s ANDS until the  777 Patent expires in 2012. Sanofi did not pursue the prohibition action with respect to the
 870 Patent.       OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LITIGATION        ABILIFY*       As previously disclosed, Otsuka has filed patent infringement
actions against Teva, Barr Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (Barr), Sandoz Inc. (Sandoz), Synthon Laboratories, Inc (Synthon), Sun Pharmaceuticals (Sun), Zydus Pharmaceuticals USA, Inc., and Apotex relating to U.S. Patent No. 5,006,528, which covers
aripiprazole and expires in April 2015 (including the additional six-month pediatric exclusivity period). Aripiprazole is comarketed by the Company and Otsuka in the U.S. as ABILIFY*. The lawsuits are currently pending in the U.S. District Court for
the District of New Jersey. The 30-month stay under the Hatch-Waxman Act expires in 2010. Accordingly, final approval by the FDA, which could possibly occur as early as May 2010, would provide each generic company authorization to distribute a
generic aripiprazole product in the U.S., subject to various legal remedies for which Otsuka may apply including injunctive relief and damages.      It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on the Company. If, however, a generic company were to launch  at risk  or if Otsuka were not
to prevail in these lawsuits, generic competition would likely result in substantial decreases in the sales of ABILIFY* in the U.S., which would have a material adverse effect on the results of operations and cash flows and could be material to
financial condition.       ATRIPLA*       In April 2009, Teva filed an aNDA to manufacture and market a generic version of ATRIPLA*. Teva sent Gilead a Paragraph IV certification letter challenging two of the fifteen Orange Book listed patents
for ATRIPLA*. ATRIPLA* is the product of a joint venture between the Company and Gilead. In May 2009, Gilead filed a patent infringement action against Teva in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. In January 2010,
the Company received a notice that Teva has amended its aNDA and is now challenging eight additional Orange Book listed patents for ATRIPLA*. At this time, the Company s patent rights covering efavirenz composition of matter and method of
use have not been challenged. The Company is currently reviewing its legal options.      It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess
the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on the Company.       REYATAZ       In October 2009, Teva filed an aNDA to manufacture and market a generic version of REYATAZ. The Company received a Paragraph IV certification letter from Teva challenging the
two Orange Book listed patents for REYATAZ. In December 2009, the Company and Novartis Pharmaceutical Corporation filed a patent infringement lawsuit in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware against Teva for infringement of the two
listed patents covering REYATAZ, which triggered an automatic 30-month stay of approval of Teva s aNDA.      It is not possible at this time
to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on the Company.         
   119   

Table of Contents  

    GENERAL COMMERCIAL LITIGATION        Clayworth Litigation       As previously disclosed, the Company, together with a
number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, was named as a defendant in an action filed in California State Superior Court in Oakland,  James Clayworth et al. v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, et al ., alleging that the defendants conspired to
fix the prices of pharmaceuticals by agreeing to charge more for their drugs in the U.S. than they charge outside the U.S., particularly Canada, and asserting claims under California s Cartwright Act and unfair competition law. The plaintiffs
sought trebled monetary damages, injunctive relief and other relief. In December 2006, the Court granted the Company and the other manufacturers  motion for summary judgment based on the pass-on defense, and judgment was then entered in favor
of defendants. In July 2008, judgment in favor of defendants was affirmed by the California Court of Appeals. In November 2008, the California Supreme Court granted the plaintiffs  petition for review. It is not possible at this time reasonably
to assess the outcome of this lawsuit or its impact on the Company in the event plaintiffs are successful on appeal.       RxUSA Wholesale
Litigation       As previously disclosed, in July 2006, a complaint was filed by drug wholesaler RxUSA Wholesale, Inc. in the
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New York against the Company, 15 other drug manufacturers, five drug wholesalers, two officers of defendant McKesson and a wholesale distribution industry trade group,  RxUSA Wholesale, Inc. v. Alcon
Labs., Inc., et al . The complaint alleges violations of Federal and New York antitrust laws, as well as various other laws. Plaintiff claims that defendants allegedly engaged in anti-competitive acts that resulted in the exclusion of plaintiff
from the relevant market and seeks $586 million in damages before any trebling, and other relief. In September 2009, the District Court granted the Company s and other defendants  motions to dismiss. Plaintiff has appealed the District
Court s decision to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.       ANTITRUST LITIGATION       As previously disclosed, 18 lawsuits comprised of both individual suits and purported class actions have been filed against the Company in
U.S. District Court, Southern District of Ohio, Western Division, by various plaintiffs, including pharmacy chains (individually and as assignees, in whole or in part, of certain wholesalers), various health and welfare benefit plans/funds and
individual residents of various states. These lawsuits allege, among other things, that the purported settlement with Apotex of the patent infringement litigation violated the Sherman Act and related laws. Plaintiffs are seeking, among other things,
permanent injunctive relief barring the Apotex settlement and/or monetary damages. The putative class actions filed on behalf of direct purchasers have been consolidated under the caption  In re: Plavix Direct Purchaser Antitrust Litigation ,
and the putative class actions filed on behalf of indirect purchasers have been consolidated under the caption  In re: Plavix Indirect Purchaser Antitrust Litigation . Amended complaints were filed on October 19, 2007. Defendants filed a
consolidated motion to dismiss on December 11, 2007, which remains pending. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of these lawsuits or their impact on the Company.       SHAREHOLDER DERIVATIVE ACTIONS         As
previously disclosed, on July 31, 2007, certain members of the Board of Directors, current and former officers and the Company were named in two derivative actions filed in the New York State Supreme Court,    John Frank v. Peter Dolan,
et al. (07-602580)    and    Donald Beebout v. Peter Dolan, et al. (07-602579)   , and one derivative action filed in the federal district court,    Steven W. Sampson v. James D. Robinson, III, et al.
(07-CV-6890)   . The complaints allege breaches of fiduciary duties for allegedly failing to disclose material information relating to efforts to settle the PLAVIX* patent infringement litigation with Apotex. Plaintiffs seek monetary damages
on behalf of the Company, contribution and indemnification. By decision filed on December 13, 2007, the state court granted motions to dismiss the complaints,    Frank    and    Beebout   , relating to certain
members of the Board of Directors, and later dismissed the complaints as to the former officers. By decision dated August 20, 2008, the federal district court granted the Company s motion to dismiss the    Sampson    action.
Plaintiffs appealed the district court s decision to the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. In December 2009, the District Court granted final approval of a settlement between the parties for an amount which is not material
to the Company, which concluded the matter.          SECURITIES LITIGATION        In Re Bristol-Myers Squibb Co. Securities Litigation       As previously disclosed, in June and July 2007, two putative class action complaints,  Minneapolis Firefighters  Relief Assoc. v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Co., et al. (07 CV 5867)  and  Jean Lai
v. Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, et al.,  were filed in the U.S. District for the Southern District of New York against the Company, the Company s former Chief Executive Officer, Peter Dolan and former Chief Financial Officer, Andrew
Bonfield. The complaints allege violations of securities laws for allegedly failing to disclose material information relating to efforts to settle the PLAVIX* patent infringement litigation with Apotex. On September 20, 2007, the Court
dismissed the  Lai  case without prejudice, changed the caption of the case to  In re Bristol-Myers Squibb, Co. Securities Litigation , and appointed Ontario Teachers  Pension Plan Board as lead plaintiff. On October 15, 2007,
Ontario Teachers  Pension Plan Board filed an amended complaint making similar allegations as the earlier filed complaints, naming an additional former officer but no longer naming Andrew Bonfield as a defendant. By decision dated
August 20, 2008, the federal district court denied defendants  motions to dismiss. In December 2009, the District Court granted final approval of a settlement between the parties for payment of $125 million, which concluded the matter.
        
   120   

Table of Contents  

    PRICING, SALES AND PROMOTIONAL PRACTICES LITIGATION AND INVESTIGATIONS        ABILIFY* State Attorneys General Investigation       In March 2009, the Company received a letter from the Delaware Attorney General s Office advising of a multi-state coalition investigating whether certain ABILIFY* marketing practices violated the
respective states  consumer protection statutes. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this investigation or its potential impact on the Company.       AWP Litigation       As previously disclosed, the Company, together with a
number of other pharmaceutical manufacturers, has been a defendant in a number of private class actions as well as suits brought by the attorneys general of various states. In these actions, plaintiffs allege that defendants caused the Average
Wholesale Prices (AWPs) of their products to be inflated, thereby injuring government programs, entities and persons who reimbursed prescription drugs based on AWPs. The Company remains a defendant in four state attorneys general suits pending in
state courts around the country.      As previously reported, one set of class actions were consolidated in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Massachusetts (AWP MDL). In August 2009, the District Court granted preliminary approval of a proposed settlement of the AWP MDL plaintiffs  claims against the Company for $19 million, plus half the costs of class
notice up to a maximum payment of $1 million. A final approval hearing is currently scheduled to occur in July 2010.       California 340B
Litigation       As previously disclosed, in August 2005, the County of Santa Clara filed a purported class action against the
Company and numerous other pharmaceutical manufacturers on behalf of itself and a putative class of other cities and counties in California, as well as the covered entities that purchased drugs pursuant to the 340B drug discount program, alleging
that manufacturers did not provide proper discounts to covered entities. Discovery in this matter is ongoing. In May 2009, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California denied plaintiff s motion to certify the class without
prejudice.      It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of this lawsuit, or its potential impact on the
Company.       Omnicare Qui Tam Litigation       In April 2009, the Company was served a qui tam complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts by a former employee of Omnicare, Inc. (Omnicare). Omnicare is a provider of
pharmaceutical care to seniors. The U.S. declined to intervene in the lawsuit. The complaint alleges civil violations to the federal and various state false claims acts based on allegations that the Company and other pharmaceutical manufacturers
paid Omnicare kickbacks to switch the medications of Omnicare s patients, thereby damaging the government and private payers. In October 2009, the plaintiff voluntarily dismissed his claims against the Company with prejudice.       PRODUCT LIABILITY LITIGATION       The Company is a party to various product liability lawsuits. As previously disclosed, in addition to lawsuits, the Company also faces unfiled claims involving its products.       PLAVIX*       As previously disclosed, the Company and certain affiliates of
sanofi are defendants in a number of individual lawsuits claiming personal injury allegedly sustained after using PLAVIX*, most of which appear before the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey (NJ District Court). As of
December 31, 2009, the companies were defendants in 23 actions before the NJ District Court and have executed tolling agreements with respect to unfiled claims by potential additional plaintiffs. It is not possible at this time to reasonably
assess the outcomes of these lawsuits or their potential impact on the Company.       Hormone Replacement Therapy       The Company is one of a number of defendants in a mass-tort litigation in which plaintiffs allege, among other things, that various hormone
therapy products, including hormone therapy products formerly manufactured by the Company (ESTRACE*, Estradiol, DELESTROGEN* and OVCON*) cause breast cancer, stroke, blood clots, cardiac and other injuries in women, that the defendants were aware of
these risks and failed to warn consumers. As of December 31, 2009, the Company was a defendant in over 300 lawsuits filed on behalf of approximately 500 plaintiffs in Federal and state courts throughout the U.S. All of the Company s
hormone therapy products were sold to other companies between January 2000 and August 2001. It is not possible at this time reasonably to assess the outcome of the lawsuits in which the Company is a party or their impact on the Company.  
     
   121   

Table of Contents  

    ENVIRONMENTAL PROCEEDINGS       As previously reported, the Company is a party to several environmental proceedings and other matters, and is responsible under various state, Federal and foreign laws, including the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA), for certain costs of investigating and/or remediating contamination resulting from past industrial activity at the Company s current or former sites or at waste
disposal or reprocessing facilities operated by third-parties.       CERCLA Matters       With respect to CERCLA matters for which the Company is responsible under various state, Federal and foreign laws, the Company typically estimates potential costs based on
information obtained from the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or counterpart state agency and/or studies prepared by independent consultants, including the total estimated costs for the site and the expected cost-sharing, if any, with other
 potentially responsible parties,  and the Company accrues liabilities when they are probable and reasonably estimable. The Company estimated its share of future costs for these sites to be $69 million at December 31, 2009, which
represents the sum of best estimates or, where no best estimate can reasonably be made, estimates of the minimal probable amount among a range of such costs (without taking into account any potential recoveries from other parties, which are not
currently expected).       Passaic River (NJ) Remediation and Natural Resource Damages Claim       As previously disclosed, in September 2003, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) issued an administrative
enforcement Directive requiring the Company and other companies to perform an assessment of natural resource damages and to implement unspecified interim remedial measures to restore conditions in the Lower Passaic River (LPR). The Directive named
the Company due to releases from a nearby bulk chemical reprocessing facility operated by a predecessor of McKesson Corp. Subsequently, the EPA issued notice letters to numerous parties, but not the Company, requesting performance of a Remedial
Investigation/Feasibility Study (RI/FS) of conditions in the LPR. Under a consent agreement with EPA in 2004, a group of these other parties committed to pay roughly half of the $20 million estimated for the RI/FS by EPA at that time. The EPA
thereafter substantially increased its estimate of the scope and cost of the RI/FS and, as a result, the EPA agreed to allow the group to perform most of the remaining RI/FS tasks. By the group s estimate, total costs to complete the RI/FS and
related tasks now exceed $50 million. The group has negotiated an amended consent agreement with the EPA to conduct the remaining RI/FS work, which became effective in May 2007. As part of that process, the Company and McKesson have bought out of
remaining RI/FS tasks.      Separately, the Company has agreed to pay approximately $110 thousand towards RI/FS tasks previously
funded by McKesson and work cooperatively going forward, subject to later reallocation. In mid-2007 the EPA announced plans to seek implementation of  early-action  remedial measures to address the most highly-contaminated portions of the
LPR while the RI/FS is being completed. The EPA has indicated it expects to select any such actions by mid-2009. Also, a sub-group of the cooperating private parties have commenced discussions with federal natural resource trustee agencies
concerning an agreement to assess natural resource damages in the LPR. The remaining parties, including the Company and McKesson, have declined to discuss the proposal at least until the scope and cost of the  early-actions  sought by the
EPA are more thoroughly understood.      In 2006, NJDEP filed suit against a set of parties tied to a facility suspected of
significant discharges to the LPR to recover costs and unspecified damages. That case languished until recently, when the defendants filed third-party claims against most members of the cooperating group and numerous other parties. Those claims also
seek contribution to the costs of the various actions the defendants are funding on other response actions related to the LPR. The defendants did not name the Company in those claims. The other group members are actively discussing strategy and
coordinated actions; for now, the Company is not participating in those efforts. While the group currently does not plan to add the Company to the litigation, it remains to be seen whether any of the other new defendants will do so. The extent of
any liability the Company may face for these and related risks cannot yet be determined.       New Brunswick Facility  
Environmental   Personal Injury Lawsuits       As previously disclosed, in May 2008, over 100 lawsuits were filed
against the Company in Superior Court, Middlesex County, NJ, by or on behalf of current and former residents of New Brunswick, NJ who live adjacent to the Company s New Brunswick facility. The complaints allege various personal injuries and
property damage resulting from soil and groundwater contamination on their property stemming from historical operations at the New Brunswick facility. In October 2008, the New Jersey Supreme Court granted Mass Tort status to these cases and
transferred them to the New Jersey Superior Court in Atlantic County for centralized case management purposes. The Company intends to defend itself vigorously in this litigation. It is not possible at this time to reasonably assess the outcome of
these lawsuits, or the potential impact on the Company.         
   122   

Table of Contents  

    North Brunswick Township Board of Education       As previously disclosed, in October 2003, the Company was contacted by counsel representing the North Brunswick, NJ Board of Education (BOE) regarding a site where waste materials
from E.R. Squibb and Sons may have been disposed from the 1940 s through the 1960 s. Fill material containing industrial waste and heavy metals in excess of residential standards was discovered during an expansion project at the North
Brunswick Township High School, as well as at a number of neighboring residential properties and adjacent public park areas. In January 2004, the New Jersey Department of Environmental Protection (NJDEP) sent the Company and others an information
request letter about possible waste disposal at the site, to which the Company responded in March 2004. The BOE and the Township, as the current owners of the school property and the park, are conducting and jointly financing soil remediation work
and ground water investigation work under a work plan approved by NJDEP, and have asked the Company to contribute to the cost. The Company is actively monitoring the clean-up project, including its costs. To date, neither the school board nor the
Township has asserted any claim against the Company. Instead, the Company and the local entities have negotiated an agreement to attempt to resolve the matter by informal means, including mediation and binding allocation as necessary. A central
component of the agreement is the provision by the Company of interim funding to help defray cleanup costs and assure the work is not interrupted. The Company transmitted an initial interim funding payment in December 2007 and made a second required
payment in November 2009. The parties commenced mediation in late 2008; however, those efforts were not successful and the parties will move to a binding allocation process. In addition, in September 2009, the Township and BOE filed suits against
several other parties alleged to have contributed waste materials to the site. Although per the mediation agreement the BOE and Township have agreed to forbear from asserting claims against the Company, it remains to be seen whether any of the
defendants in these new suits will seek to implead the Company.       OTHER PROCEEDINGS        SEC Germany Investigation       As previously disclosed, in October 2004, the SEC notified the Company that it is conducting an informal inquiry into the activities of certain of the Company s German pharmaceutical subsidiaries and its employees and/or agents. In
October 2006, the SEC informed the Company that its inquiry had become formal. The SEC s inquiry encompasses matters formerly under investigation by the German prosecutor in Munich, Germany, which have since been resolved. The Company
understands the inquiry concerns potential violations of the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Company is cooperating with the SEC.       Medarex Shareholder Litigation       On July 22, 2009, the Company and Medarex announced the signing of a
merger agreement providing for the acquisition of Medarex by the Company, through a tender offer, for $16.00 per share in cash. Following that announcement, certain Medarex shareholders filed similar lawsuits in state and federal court relating to
this transaction against Medarex, the members of Medarex s board of directors, and the Company.      Following the
consolidation of the state court actions, on August 20, 2009, the parties entered into a memorandum of understanding (MOU), pursuant to which the parties reached an agreement in principle to settle all of the state and federal actions. Pursuant
to the agreements in the MOU, among other things, Medarex made certain supplemental disclosures during the tender offer period. The parties also agreed to present to the Superior Court of New Jersey a Stipulation of Settlement and any other
documentation as may be required in order to obtain approval by the court of the settlement and the dismissal of the Actions upon the terms set forth in the MOU. The proposed settlement remains subject to class notice and approval by the court.
        
   123   

Table of Contents  

    Note 25. SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)        

(1)  
  Earnings per share for the quarters may not add to the amounts for the year, as each period is computed on a discrete basis.     

(2)  
  Marketable securities includes current and non-current assets.           
   124   

Table of Contents  

   The following tables reconcile previously reported data with current year quarterly data
which has been updated for discontinued operations related to Mead Johnson. See   Note 7. Discontinued Operations.        

125   

Table of Contents  

   The following specified expense/(income) items were recognized in 2009 and 2008 that affected the
comparability of results:        2009:         
       
   126   

Table of Contents  

     REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of      Bristol-Myers Squibb Company      We have audited the accompanying consolidated
balance sheets of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income and retained earnings, and cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the
Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Bristol-Myers
Squibb Company and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.      As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted the
accounting standard related to Business Combinations, effective for business combinations entered into after January 1, 2009.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria
established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 19, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s
internal control over financial reporting.       /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP       Parsippany, New Jersey      February 19, 2010
        
   127   

Table of Contents  

Item 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.         None.       

Item 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES          Evaluation of
Disclosure Controls and Procedures       As of December 31, 2009, management carried out an evaluation, under the
supervision and with the participation of its chief executive officer and chief financial officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of its disclosure controls and procedures as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e).
Based on this evaluation, management has concluded that as of December 31, 2009, such disclosure controls and procedures were effective.       Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Management is responsible for
establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Under the supervision and with the participation of management, including the chief executive officer and chief financial officer, management assessed the effectiveness
of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009 based on the framework in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that
assessment, management has concluded that the Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective at December 31, 2009 to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of its financial reporting and the preparation
of its financial statements for external purposes in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles. Due to its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
     Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has audited the Company s financial
statements included in this report on Form 10-K and issued its report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, which is included herein.       Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       In the first quarter of 2009, the Company upgraded and integrated its SAP general ledger with a new consolidation and financial reporting warehouse.      In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company implemented new processes and a new SAP system for human resource related activities, including
payroll in the U.S. and certain international markets. Simultaneously, the Company outsourced certain human resource transaction processing activities to IBM and transferred its previously outsourced payroll transaction processing activities
from Accenture to IBM.       

Item 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION         None.         
   128   

Table of Contents  

   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of      Bristol-Myers Squibb Company      We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The
Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process
designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to
provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over
financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in
accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could
have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial
reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness
of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
     In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule as of and for the year ended December 31, 2009 of the Company and our report dated February 19, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and financial statement schedule and includes an explanatory
paragraph regarding the Company s adoption of the accounting standard related to Business Combinations, effective for business combinations entered into after January 1, 2009.       /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP       Parsippany, New Jersey      February 19, 2010         
   129   

Table of Contents  

    PART III        

Item 10.   
   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.          

(a)  
  Reference is made to the 2010 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2010 with respect to the Directors of the Registrant, which is incorporated herein
by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 10.         

(b)  
  The information required by Item 10 with respect to the Executive Officers of the Registrant has been included in Part IA of this Form 10-K in reliance on General
Instruction G of Form 10-K and Instruction 3 to Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K.         

Item 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.         Reference is made to the 2010 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2010 with respect to Executive Compensation, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by
Item 11.       

Item 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.         Reference is made to the 2010 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2010 with respect to the security ownership of certain
beneficial owners and management, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 12.       

Item 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.         Reference is made to the 2010 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2010 with respect to certain relationships and related transactions, which is incorporated herein by reference and made
a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 13.       
    Reference
is made to the 2010 Proxy Statement to be filed on or about March 23, 2010 with respect to auditor fees, which is incorporated herein by reference and made a part hereof in response to the information required by Item 14.         
   130   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV        

Item 15.   
   EXHIBITS and FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE.          

(a)         

Page Number    

1.         
     
    Consolidated Financial Statements   

Consolidated Statements of Earnings    
      
  70   

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income and Retained Earnings    
      
  71   

Consolidated Balance Sheets    
      
  72   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
  73   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
  74-126   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
  127   

2.         
     
    Financial Statement Schedule   

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts     
      
  137   
 
        All other schedules not included with
this additional financial data are omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is included in the financial statements or notes thereto.          

3.         
     
     Exhibits Required to be filed by Item 601 of Regulation S-K     
      
  133-136       The
information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the Exhibit Index in this Form 10-K.         
   131   

Table of Contents  

   SIGNATURES      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.        

BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY     (Registrant)    

By  
     
   /s/ JAMES M. CORNELIUS    

James M. Cornelius    

Chairman of the Board and         Chief Executive Officer      

Date: February 19, 2010    
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    

Title    
     
     Date     

/s/ J AMES  M. C ORNELIUS    

Chairman of the Board and  
     
  February 19, 2010   
 
  (James M. Cornelius)  

Chief Executive Officer  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/ C HARLES  B ANCROFT    

Acting Chief Financial Officer  
     
  February 19, 2010   
 
  (Charles Bancroft)  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

/s/ J OSEPH  C. C ALDARELLA    

Vice President and Corporate Controller  
     
  February 19, 2010   
 
  (Joseph C. Caldarella)  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

/s/ L AMBERTO  A NDREOTTI    

Director, President and Chief Operating Officer  
     
  February 19, 2010   
 
  (Lamberto Andreotti)  

/s/ L EWIS  B. C AMPBELL    

Director  
     
  February 19, 2010   
 
  (Lewis B. Campbell)  

/s/ L OUIS  J. F REEH    

Director  
     
  February 19, 2010   
 
  (Louis J. Freeh)  

/s/ L AURIE  H. G LIMCHER , M.D.   

Director  
     
  February 19, 2010   
 
  (Laurie H. Glimcher, M.D.)  

/s/ M ICHAEL  G ROBSTEIN    

Director  
     
  February 19, 2010   
 
  (Michael Grobstein)  

/s/ L EIF  J OHANSSON    

Director  
     
  February 19, 2010   
 
  (Leif Johansson)  

/s/ A LAN  J. L ACY    

Director  
     
  February 19, 2010   
 
  (Alan J. Lacy)  

/s/ V ICKI  L. S ATO , P H .D.   

Director  
     
  February 19, 2010   
 
  (Vicki L. Sato, Ph.D.)  

/s/ T OGO  D. W EST , J R .   

Director  
     
  February 19, 2010   
 
  (Togo D. West, Jr.)  

/s/ R. S ANDERS  W ILLIAMS , M.D.   

Director  
     
  February 19, 2010   
 
  (R. Sanders Williams, M.D.)  

132   

Table of Contents  

      EXHIBIT INDEX       The Exhibits listed below are identified by numbers corresponding to the Exhibit Table of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. The Exhibits designated by two asterisks (**) are
management contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements required to be filed pursuant to Item 15. An asterisk (*) in the Page column indicates that the Exhibit has been previously filed with the Commission and is incorporated herein by
reference. Unless otherwise indicated, all Exhibits are part of Commission File Number 1-1136.       
       
   133   

Table of Contents  

10c.  
     
    Bylaws (Statuts) of Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb, a partnership (societe en nom collectif) organized under French law, dated as of June 6, 1997.
English Translation (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).   
      
  *   

10d.  
     
    Internal Regulation (Reglement Interieur) of Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb dated as of June 6, 1997 and effective as of January 1, 1997. English Translation
(incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).    
      
  *   

10e.  
     
    Partnership Agreement of Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership between Sanofi Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
Investco, Inc. dated as of January 1, 1997 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).    
      
  *   

10f.  
     
    Territory A Alliance Support Agreement between Sanofi and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company dated as of January 1, 1997 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit
10.4 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).    
      
  *   

10g.  
     
    Amendment No. 1 to the Territory A Alliance Support Agreement between Sanofi-Synthelabo and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company dated as of October 17, 2001
(incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.5 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).    
      
  *   

10h.  
     
    Territory B Alliance Support Agreement between Sanofi and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company dated as of January 1, 1997 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit
10.6 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).     
      
  *   

10i.  
     
    Amendment No. 1 to the Territory B Alliance Support Agreement between Sanofi-Synthelabo and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company dated as of October 17, 2001
(incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.7 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).    
      
  *   

10j.  
     
    Clopidogrel Intellectual Property License and Supply Agreement between Sanofi and Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb dated as of January 1, 1997 (incorporated by
reference herein to Exhibit 10.8 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).     
      
  *   

10k.  
     
    Clopidogrel Intellectual Property License and Supply Agreement between Sanofi and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership dated as of
January 1, 1997 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.9 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).     
      
  *   

10l.  
     
    Product Know-How License Agreement among Sanofi, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb dated as of January 1, 1997 (incorporated by
reference herein to Exhibit 10.10 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).    
      
  *   

10m.  
     
    Product Know-How License Agreement among Sanofi, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership dated as of
January 1, 1997 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.11 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).     
      
  *   

10n.  
     
    Restated Development and Commercialization Collaboration Agreement between Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company dated as of October
23, 2001 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.12 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).    
      
  *   

10o.  
     
    Amendment No. 3 to the Restated Development and Commercialization Collaboration Agreement between Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company dated as of September 25, 2006 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.13 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).    
      
  *   

10p.  
     
    Amendment No. 5 to the Restated Development and Commercialization Collaboration Agreement between Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd. and Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company effective as of April 4, 2009 (incorporated by reference herein to Exhibit 10.14 to the Form 8-K filed on August 17, 2009).    
      
  *   

**10q.  
     
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 1997 Stock Incentive Plan, effective as of May 6, 1997 and as amended effective July 17, 2002 (incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10a to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended June 30, 2002).   
      
  *   

**10r.  
     
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2002 Stock Incentive Plan, effective as of May 7, 2002 and as amended effective June 10, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).   
      
  *   

**10s.  
     
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan, effective as of May 1, 2007 and as amended effective June 10, 2008 (incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended September 30, 2008).   
      
  *   

**10t.  
     
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company TeamShare Stock Option Plan, as amended and restated effective September 10, 2002 (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10c
to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002).   
      
  *   

**10u.  
     
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the 2002 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10s to the Form 10-K for
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).   
      
  *   

**10v.  
     
    Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement under the 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10s to the Form 10-Q for
the quarterly period ended March 31, 2007).   
      
  *   

**10w.  
     
    Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the 2002 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10t to the Form 10-K for the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2005).   
      
  *   

**10x.  
     
    Form of Performance Shares Agreement for the 2007-2009 Performance Cycle (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly
period ended September 30, 2008).   
      
  *   

**10y.  
     
    Form of Performance Shares Agreement for the 2008-2010 Performance Cycle (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q for the quarterly
period ended September 30, 2007).   
      
  *          
   134   

Table of Contents  

135   

Table of Contents  

**10vv.  
     
    Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Non-Employee Directors  Stock Option Plan, as amended (as approved by the Stockholders on May 2, 2000, incorporated herein
by reference to Exhibit A to the 2000 Proxy Statement dated March 20, 2000).   
      
  *   

**10ww.  
     
    Squibb Corporation Deferral Plan for Fees of Outside Directors, as amended (as adopted, incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10e Squibb Corporation 1991
Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1987, File No. 1-5514; as amended effective December 31, 1991 incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10m to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992).   
      
  *   

**10xx.  
     
    Amendment to all of the Company s plans, agreements, legal documents and other writings, pursuant to action of the Board of Directors on October 3, 1989, to
reflect the change of the Company s name to Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10v to the Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1989).   
      
  *   

**10yy.  
     
    Form of Stock and Asset Purchase Agreement between Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and Cidron Healthcare Limited dated May 2, 2008 (incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated May 1, 2008 and filed on May 7, 2008).   
      
  *   

**10zz.  
     
    Letter Agreement between Jean-Marc Huet and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated March 4, 2008
and filed on March 10, 2008).   
      
  *   

**10aaa.  
     
    Separation Agreement between Andrew Bonfield and Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 8-K dated March 4,
2008 and filed on March 10, 2008).   
      
  *   

12.  
     
    Statement re computation of ratios (filed herewith).   
      
  E-12-1   

21.  
     
    Subsidiaries of the Registrant (filed herewith).   
      
  E-21-1   

23.  
     
    Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP (filed herewith).   
      
  E-23-1   

31a.  
     
    Section 302 Certification Letter (filed herewith).   
      
  E-31-1   

31b.  
     
    Section 302 Certification Letter (filed herewith).   
      
  E-31-2   

32a.  
     
    Section 906 Certification Letter (filed herewith).   
      
  E-32-1   

32b.  
     
    Section 906 Certification Letter (filed herewith).   
      
  E-32-2   

101.  
     
    The following financial statements from the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Annual Report on Form 10-K for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007,
formatted in Extensive Business Reporting Language (XBRL): (i) consolidated statements of earnings, (ii) consolidated statements of comprehensive income and retained earnings, (iii) consolidated balance sheets, (iv) consolidated statements of cash
flows, and (v) the notes to the consolidated financial statements (tagged as blocks of text).   

Confidential treatment has been granted for certain portions which are omitted in the copy of the exhibit electronically filed with the Commission. The omitted
information has been filed separately with the Commission pursuant to the Company s application for confidential treatment.         

*  
  Indicates, in this Form 10-K, brand names of products, which are registered trademarks not owned by the Company or its subsidiaries. ERBITUX is a trademark of Eli
Lilly; AVAPRO/AVALIDE (known in the EU as APROVEL/KARVEA), ISCOVER, KARVEZIDE, COAPROVEL, and PLAVIX are trademarks of sanofi-aventis; ABILIFY is a trademark of Otsuka Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd.; TRUVADA is a trademark of Gilead Sciences, Inc.;
GLEEVEC is a trademark of Novartis AG; PRILOSEC is a trademark of AstraZeneca; ATRIPLA is a trademark of Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences, LLC; NORVIR is a trademark of Abbott Laboratories; and BUFFERIN and EXCEDRIN in Spain, Asia (excluding
China and Taiwan) and certain Oceanic countries are trademarks of Lion Corporation.           
   136   

Table of Contents  

      SCHEDULE II        BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS        

(1)  
  Amounts have been reclassified to give effect to discontinued operations. For further information on discontinued operations, see  Item 8. Financial
Statements Note 7. Discontinued Operations.            
   137   

<EX-10.AA>
 2
 dex10aa.htm
 FORM OF PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT

Form of Performance Share Units Agreement 

Exhibit 10aa.    

PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT       Under the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company      2007 Stock Award and
Incentive Plan       2010-2012 Performance Share Units Award       Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the  Company ) has granted you a Performance Share Units Award as set forth in the Grant Summary.
This award is subject in all respects to the terms, definitions and provisions of the 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) adopted by the Company.      Award Date: March 2, 2010      Performance Cycle Start Date: January 1, 2010
     Please refer to the Grant Summary for the Target Number of Performance Share Units relating to the 2010-2012 performance
cycle:      2010 Performance Share Units (10-12 Cycle): One-third of total award      2011 Performance Share Units (10-12 Cycle): One-third of total award      2012 Performance Share Units (10-12 Cycle): One-third of total award      The year referenced for each of these three  tranches  is the  Performance Year  for that tranche.      Range at which Performance Share Units may be earned for varying performance:      Threshold:  37.49% (weighted average) of Target      Target:        100% of Target      Maximum:  167.50% of Target      Performance Goal and Earning Date: A separate Performance Goal will be set for
each tranche by March 30 of the Performance Year, specifying the number of Performance Share Units that may be earned for specified levels of performance. The Earning Date will be December 31 of the Performance Year. The Performance Goal
for the 2010 Performance Share Units is attached as Exhibit A hereto.      Vesting: Earned Performance Share Units will vest at the
date between January 1, 2013 and March 15, 2013, at which the Committee determines and certifies the extent to which the Performance Goals for the 2012 Performance Share Units have been met, subject to earlier vesting at the times
indicated in Sections 6 (including in connection with certain terminations following a Change in Control) and 8.      Settlement:
Earned and vested Performance Share Units will be settled by delivery of one share of the Company s Common Stock, $0.10 par value per share ( Shares ), for each Performance Share Unit being settled. Dividend equivalents will accrue
and be payable in connection with Performance Share Units at the time and to the extent that the underlying Performance Share Unit becomes payable. Settlement shall occur at the time specified in Section 4 hereof.         
   E-10-1   

1.  
   PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS AWARD         The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the  Committee ) has granted to you the opportunity to earn the 2010 Performance Share Units as designated herein
subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in this Agreement. In addition, the Committee hereby indicates its intention to grant to you the opportunity to earn the 2011 Performance Share Units and the 2012 Performance Share Units
for the 2010-2012 performance cycle and subject to this Agreement; such grants shall become effective only at such time as the Committee has specified the Performance Goal for those Performance Share Units (by March 30 of the relevant
Performance Year), except as otherwise provided in this Section 1 and in Sections 6(a) and 6(b). The target number of each tranche of Performance Share Units and the kind of shares deliverable in settlement, the calculation of earnings per
share as a Performance Goal, and other terms and conditions of the Performance Share Units are subject to adjustment in accordance with Section 11 hereof and Section 11(c) of the Plan. In the event of a Change in Control, you will become
legally entitled to have the grant of Performance Share Units specified hereunder become effective (i) for the Performance Year in effect at the date of the Change in Control, at the time of the Change in Control (if the grant was not
previously effective) if you were employed by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate immediately before the Change in Control, and (ii), for any Performance Year beginning after the year in which the Change in Control occurred, at the beginning of
such Performance Year if you remain so employed at that time. In each case relating to Performance Share Units the grant of which is effective at or following a Change in Control, the Performance Goal for such Performance Share Units shall be
reasonably achievable and not more difficult to achieve in relation to the Company s budget for that Performance Year than the Performance Goal for any earlier Performance Year was in relation to the budget for that earlier Performance Year.

2.  
   CONSIDERATION         As
consideration for grant of 2010 Performance Share Units, you shall remain in the continuous employ of the Company and/or its Subsidiaries or Affiliates for at least one year from the Performance Cycle Start Date or such lesser period as the
Committee shall determine in its sole discretion, and no Performance Share Units shall be payable until after the completion of such one year or lesser period of employment by you (subject to Section 6(c)). No 2011 Performance Share Units or
2012 Performance Share Units shall be granted hereunder unless you have met the one-year continuous employment requirement specified in this Section 2, measured from the Performance Cycle Start Date.       

3.  
   PERFORMANCE GOALS          The
Performance Goals for the 2010 Performance Share Units are specified on the cover page of this Agreement and Exhibit A hereto, and for the 2011 Performance Share Units and 2012 Performance Share Units shall be specified in writing in such manner as
the Committee may determine.       

4.  
   DETERMINATION OF PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS EARNED AND VESTED; FORFEITURES; SETTLEMENT         By March 15 of the year following each Performance Year, the Committee shall determine the extent to which Performance Share Units have
been earned on the basis of the Company s actual performance in relation to the established Performance Goals for the Performance Share Units relating to that Performance Year, provided, however, that the Committee may exercise its discretion
(reserved under Plan Sections 7(a) and 7(b)(v)) to reduce the amount of Performance Share Units deemed earned in its assessment of performance in relation to Performance Goals, or in light of other considerations the
        
   E-10-1   

Committee deems relevant. The Committee shall certify these results in writing in accordance with Plan Section 7(c), subject to any limitation under Section 7 hereof (if you are
Disabled during the Performance Year in excess of 26 weeks). Any Performance Share Units that are not, based on the Committee s determination, earned by performance in a Performance Year (or deemed to be earned in connection with a termination
of employment under Sections 6 and 8 below), including Performance Share Units that had been potentially earnable by performance in excess of the actual performance levels achieved, shall be canceled and forfeited.      Performance Share Units are subject to vesting based on your service for periods which extend past the applicable Performance Year. The
stated vesting date is set forth on the cover page hereof. If, before the stated vesting date, there occurs an event immediately after which you are not an employee of the Company, its subsidiaries or an affiliate of the Company, you will become
vested in Performance Share Units only to the extent provided in Section 6 or 8, and any Performance Share Units that have not been earned and vested at or before such event and which cannot thereafter be earned and vested under Sections 6 or 8
shall be canceled and forfeited.      In certain termination events as specified below and in connection with a long-term
Disability (as defined in Section 7), you will be entitled to vesting of a  Pro Rata Portion  of the Performance Share Units earned or deemed earned hereunder. For purposes of this Agreement, in the case of a termination of
employment, the Pro Rata Portion is calculated as the number of Performance Share Units relating to a given Performance Year multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is the number of months you were employed from the commencement of that
Performance Year through the end of the month in which your termination of employment occurred (but not more than 12) and the denominator of which is 12; provided, however, that the number of months you were employed shall be reduced by the number
of months during such Performance Year in which you were Disabled in excess of 26 weeks since the commencement of the Disability. For purposes of this Agreement, in the case of a Disability extending longer than 26 weeks, the Pro Rata Portion is
calculated as the number of Performance Share Units relating to a given Performance Year multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which is 12 minus the number of months you were Disabled in excess of 26 weeks since the commencement of the
Disability, and the denominator of which is 12. For purposes of calculations under this paragraph: (a) one or more days worked in a given month is counted as a full month of employment; and (b) one or more days on Disability in a given
month in which the duration of Disability has not yet exceeded 26 weeks is also counted as a full month of employment.      The
number of Performance Share Units earned or vested shall be rounded to the nearest whole Performance Share Unit, unless otherwise determined by the Company officers responsible for day-to-day administration of the Plan.      Performance Share Units that become vested while you remain employed by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate shall be settled promptly
upon vesting by delivery of one Share for each Performance Share Unit being settled, unless validly deferred in accordance with deferral terms then authorized by the Committee (subject to Plan Section 11(k)). Performance Share Units that become
vested under Sections 6(a), 6(b), 6(c) or 8 shall be settled at the times specified therein; provided, however, that settlement of Performance Share Units under Section 6(a), (b) or (c) shall be subject to the applicable provisions of
Plan Section 11(k). ( Note: Section 11(k) could apply if settlement is triggered by a Change in Control or a termination following a Change in Control ). Until Shares are delivered to you in settlement of Performance Share Units, you
shall have none of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the Shares issuable in settlement of the Performance Share Units, including the right to vote the shares and receive distributions other than dividends. (Your rights with
respect to dividends are set forth in Section 11, below.) Shares of stock issuable in settlement of Performance Share Units shall be delivered to you upon settlement in certificated form or in such other manner as the Company may reasonably
determine.         
   E-10-1   

5.  
   NONTRANSFERABILITY OF PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS AND DESIGNATION OF BENEFICIARY         Performance Share Units shall not be transferable other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, except that you may
designate a beneficiary pursuant to the provisions hereof on a Designation of Beneficiary form.      If you and/or your
beneficiary shall attempt to assign your rights under this Agreement in violation of the provisions herein, the Company s obligation to settle Performance Share Units or otherwise make payments shall terminate.      If no designated beneficiary is living on the date on which shares are deliverable in settlement or other amount becomes payable to you, or
if no beneficiary has been specified, such settlement or payment will be payable to the person or persons in the first of the following classes of successive preference:       

(i)  
  Widow or widower, if then living,     

(ii)  
  Surviving children, equally,     

(iii)  
  Surviving parents, equally,     

(iv)  
  Surviving brothers and sisters, equally,     

(v)  
  Executors or administrators        and the term
 beneficiary  as used in this Agreement shall include such person or persons.       

6.  
   RETIREMENT AND OTHER TERMINATIONS (EXCLUDING DEATH)         (a)  Retirement.  In the event of your Retirement (as defined in the Plan) prior to settlement of Performance Share Units and after you have satisfied the one-year employment requirement of
Section 2, you will be deemed vested (i) in any Performance Share Units that relate to a Performance Year completed before your Retirement and which have been determined or thereafter are determined by the Committee to have been earned
under Section 4, and (ii), with respect to Performance Share Units relating to a Performance Year in progress at the date of your Retirement, in a Pro Rata Portion of the Performance Share Units you would have actually earned for that
Performance Year if you had continued to be employed through the date the Committee determines the earning of the Performance Share Units for that Performance Year under Section 4 (for this purpose, if the grant of Performance Share Units
relating to the Performance Year in progress at the date of your Retirement has not yet become effective, such grant shall be deemed to be effective immediately before the Retirement and shall have the same terms as applicable to participating
employees who remain employed). Any Performance Share Units earned and vested under this Section 6(a) shall be settled at the earlier of (i) the date such Performance Share Units would have vested if you had continued to be employed by the
Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, (ii), in the event of a Change in Control, as to previously earned Performance Share Units promptly upon the Change in Control and, in the case of any unearned Performance Share Units (subject to
Section 1), promptly following the date at which the Committee determines the extent to which such Performance Share Units have been earned (in each case subject to Section 6(e) below and Section 11(k) of the Plan), or (iii), in the
event of your death, in the year following the Performance Year in which your Retirement occurred (following the Committee s determination of the extent to which any remaining unearned Performance Share Units have been earned) or, if your death
occurred after that year, as promptly as practicable following your death. Following your Retirement, any Performance Share Units that have not been earned and vested and which thereafter will not be deemed earned and vested under this
Section 6(a) will be canceled and forfeited.      (b)  Termination by the Company Not For Cause.  In the event of your
Termination Not for Cause (as defined in Section 6(f)) by the Company and not during the Protected Period (as defined in Section 6(f)), prior to settlement of Performance Share Units and after you have satisfied the one-year
        
   E-10-1   

employment requirement of Section 2, you will be deemed vested (i) in any Performance Share Units that relate to a Performance Year completed before such termination and which have been
determined or thereafter are determined by the Committee to have been earned under Section 4, and (ii), with respect to Performance Share Units relating to a Performance Year in progress at the date of such termination, in a Pro Rata Portion of
the Performance Share Units you would have actually earned for that Performance Year if you had continued to be employed through the date the Committee determines the earning of the Performance Share Units for that Performance Year under
Section 4 (for this purpose, if the grant of Performance Share Units relating to the Performance Year in progress at the date of your Termination Not for Cause has not yet become effective, such grant shall be deemed to be effective immediately
before your termination and shall have the same terms as applicable to participating employees who remain employed). Any Performance Share Units earned and vested under this Section 6(b) shall be settled at the earlier of (i) the date such
Performance Share Units would have vested if you had continued to be employed by the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate or within the period extending to April 1 of that vesting year, (ii), in the event of a Change in Control meeting the
conditions of Section 6(e)(ii), as to previously earned Performance Share Units promptly upon such Change in Control and, in the case of any unearned Performance Share Units (subject to Section 1), promptly following the date at which the
Committee determines the extent to which such Performance Share Units have been earned (in each case subject to Section 6(e) below and Section 11(k) of the Plan), or (iii), in the event of your death, in the year following the Performance
Year in which your Termination Not for Cause occurred (following the Committee s determination of the extent to which any remaining unearned Performance Share Units have been earned) or, if your death occurred after that year, as promptly as
practicable following your death. Following such Termination Not for Cause, any Performance Share Units that have not been earned and vested and which thereafter will not be deemed earned and vested under this Section 6(b) will be canceled and
forfeited.      (c)  Qualifying Termination Following a Change in Control.  In the event that you have a Qualifying
Termination as defined in Plan Section 9(c) during the Protected Period (as defined in Section 6(f) below) following a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), you will be deemed vested (i) in any Performance Share Units that
relate to a Performance Year completed before such termination and which have been determined or thereafter are determined by the Committee to have been earned under Section 4, and (ii), with respect to Performance Share Units relating to a
Performance Year in progress at the date of your Qualifying Termination (subject to Section 1, but including Performance Share Units otherwise not meeting the one-year requirement of Section 2), in a Pro Rata Portion of the target number
of Performance Share Units that could have been earned in the Performance Year. All of your earned and vested Performance Share Units shall be settled promptly (subject to Section 6(e) below and Section 11(k) of the Plan); provided,
however, any additional forfeiture conditions in the nature of a  clawback  contained in Section 10 of this Agreement shall continue to apply to any payment. Upon your Qualifying Termination, any Performance Share Units that have not
been deemed earned and vested under this Section 6(c) will be canceled and forfeited.      (d)  Other Terminations.  If
you cease to be an employee of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates for any reason other than Retirement, Termination Not for Cause, a Qualifying Termination within the Protected Period following a Change in Control, or death, Performance
Share Units granted herein that have not become both earned and vested shall be canceled and forfeited and you shall have no right to settlement of any portion of the Performance Share Units.      (e)  Special Distribution Rules to Comply with Code Section 409A . The Performance Share Units constitute a  deferral of
compensation  under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the  Code ), based on Internal Revenue Service regulations and guidance in effect at the date of grant. As a result, the timing of settlement of your Performance
Share Units will be subject to applicable limitations under Code Section 409A. Specifically, each tranche of Performance Share Units will be subject to Section 11(k) of the Plan, including the following restrictions on settlement:

(i)  
  Settlement of the Performance Share Units under Section 6(c) upon a Qualifying Termination will be subject to the requirement that the termination constitute a
 separation from service  under Treas. Reg.   1.409A-1(h), and subject to the six-month delay rule under Plan Section 11(k)(i)(E) if at the time of separation from service you are a  Specified Employee. 
          
   E-10-1   

(ii)  
  Settlement of the Performance Share Units under Section 6(a) or 6(b) in the event of a Change in Control will occur only if an event relating to the Change in
Control constitutes a change in ownership or effective control of the Company or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company within the meaning of Treas. Reg.   1.409A-3(i)(5).        (f)  Definition of  Protected Period  and  Termination Not for Cause.   For purposes of this Section 6, the
 Protected Period  means a specific period of time following a Change in Control, such period to be the same as the applicable  protected period  specified by the Committee for change-in-control agreements, based on
Committee s policies in effect at the time of grant of this Award, or such other specific period (not less than one year) specified by the Committee at the time of grant of this Award in the resolutions authorizing the grant of this Award. For
purposes of this Section 6, a  Termination Not for Cause  means a Company-initiated termination for reason other than willful misconduct, activity deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company, or disability, provided that you
execute a general release and, where required by the Company, a non-solicitation and/or non-compete agreement with the Company.       

7.  
   DISABILITY OF PARTICIPANT         For purposes of this Agreement,  Disability  or  Disabled  shall mean qualifying for and receiving payments under a disability plan of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate either in the United States or in a
jurisdiction outside of the United States, and in jurisdictions outside of the United States shall also include qualifying for and receiving payments under a mandatory or universal disability plan or program managed or maintained by the government.
If you become Disabled, you will not be deemed to have terminated employment for the period during which, under the applicable Disability pay plan of the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, you are deemed to be employed and continue to receive
Disability payments. Upon the cessation of payments under such Disability pay plan, (i) if you return to employment status with the Company or a subsidiary or affiliate, you will not be deemed to have terminated employment, and (ii), if you do
not return to such employment status, you will be deemed to have terminated employment at the date of cessation of such Disability payments, with such termination treated for purposes of the Performance Share Units as a Retirement, death, or
voluntary termination based on your circumstances at the time of such termination. If you have been Disabled for a period in excess of 26 weeks in the aggregate during one or more Performance Years, for each affected Performance Year you will earn
only a Pro Rata Portion of the Performance Share Units you otherwise would have earned in respect of such a Performance Year.       

8.  
   DEATH OF PARTICIPANT         In
the event of your death while employed by the Company or a subsidiary and prior to settlement of Performance Share Units but after you have satisfied the one-year employment requirement of Section 2, you will be deemed vested (i) in any
Performance Share Units that relate to a Performance Year completed before your death and which have been determined or thereafter are determined by the Committee to have been earned under Section 4, and (ii), with respect to Performance Share
Units relating to a Performance Year in progress at the date of your death, in a Pro Rata Portion of the Performance Share Units you would have actually earned for that Performance Year if you had continued to be employed through the date the
Committee determines the earning of the Performance Share Units
        
   E-10-1   

for that Performance Year under Section 4. In this case, your beneficiary shall be entitled to settlement of any of your earned and vested Performance Share Units referred to in clause
(i) by the later of the end of the calendar year in which your death occurred or 60 days after your death, and to your earned and vested Performance Share Units referred to in clause (ii) in the year following your year of death as
promptly as practicable following the determination of the number of Performance Share Units earned under clause (ii) above. In the case of your death, any Performance Share Units that have not been earned and vested and thereafter will not be
deemed earned and vested under this Section 8 will be canceled and forfeited.       
    At such time as
the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate is required to withhold taxes with respect to the Performance Share Units, or at an earlier date as determined by the Company, you shall make remittance to the Company or to your employer of an amount
sufficient to cover such taxes or make such other arrangement regarding payments of such taxes as are satisfactory to the Committee. The Company and its Subsidiaries and affiliates shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct such
amount from any payment of any kind otherwise due to you, including by means of mandatory withholding of shares deliverable in settlement of your Performance Share Units, to satisfy the mandatory tax withholding requirements.       

10.  
   FORFEITURE IN THE EVENT OF COMPETITION AND/OR SOLICITATION OR OTHER DETRIMENTAL ACTS         You acknowledge that your continued employment with the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates and this grant of Performance Share Units
are sufficient consideration for this Agreement, including, without limitation, the restrictions imposed upon you by Section 10.       

a)  
  By accepting the Performance Share Units granted hereby, you expressly agree and covenant that during the Restricted Period (as defined below), you shall not, without
the prior consent of the Company, directly or indirectly:         

i)  
  own or have any financial interest in a Competitive Business (as defined below), except that nothing in this clause shall prevent you from owning one percent or less of
the outstanding securities of any entity whose securities are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange (including NASDAQ) or an equivalent foreign exchange;         

ii)  
  be actively connected with a Competitive Business by managing, operating, controlling, being an employee or consultant (or accepting an offer to be an employee or
consultant) or otherwise advising or assisting a Competitive Business in such a way that such connection might result in an increase in value or worth of any product, technology or service, that competes with any product, technology or service upon
which you worked or about which you became familiar as a result of your employment with the Company. You may, however, be actively connected with a Competitive Business after your employment with the Company terminates for any reason, so long as
your connection to the business does not involve any product, technology or service, that competes with any product, technology or service upon which you worked or about which you became familiar as a result of your employment with the Company and
the Company is provided written assurances of this fact from the Competing Company prior to your beginning such connection;         

iii)  
  take any action that might divert any opportunity from the Company or any of its affiliates, successors or assigns (the  Related Parties ) that is within the
scope of the present or future operations or business of any Related Parties;           
   E-10-1   

iv)  
  employ, solicit for employment, advise or recommend to any other person that they employ or solicit for employment or form an association with any person who is
employed by the Company or who has been employed by the Company within one year of the date your employment with the Company ceased for any reason whatsoever;         

v)  
  contact, call upon or solicit any customer of the Company, or attempt to divert or take away from the Company the business of any of its customers;

vi)  
  contact, call upon or solicit any prospective customer of the Company that you became aware of or were introduced to in the course of your duties for the Company, or
otherwise divert or take away from the Company the business of any prospective customer of the Company; or         

vii)  
  engage in any activity that is harmful to the interests of the Company, including, without limitation, any conduct during the term of your employment that violates the
Company s Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, securities trading policy and other policies.         

b)  
   Forfeiture . You agree and covenant that, if the Company determines that you have violated any provisions of Section 10(a) above during the Restricted
Period, then:         

i)  
  any portion of the Performance Share Units that have not been settled or paid to you as of the date of such determination shall be immediately canceled and forfeited;

ii)  
  you shall automatically forfeit any rights you may have with respect to the Performance Share Units as of the date of such determination;         

iii)  
  if any Performance Share Units have become vested within the twelve-month period immediately preceding a violation of Section 10(a) above (or following the date of
any such violation), upon the Company s demand, you shall immediately deliver to it a certificate or certificates for Shares equal to the number of Shares delivered to you in settlement of such vested Performance Share Units if such delivery
was made in Shares or you shall pay cash equal to the value of cash paid to you in settlement of such vested Performance Share Units if such payment was made in cash; and         

iv)  
  The foregoing remedies set forth in Section 10(b) shall not be the Company s exclusive remedies. The Company reserves all other rights and remedies available
to it at law or in equity.         

c)  
   Definitions . For purposes of this Section 10, the following definitions shall apply:         

i)  
  The Company directly advertises and solicits business from customers wherever they may be found and its business is thus worldwide in scope. Therefore,
  Competitive Business   means any person or entity that engages in any business activity that competes with the Company s business in any way, in any geographic area in which the Company engages in business, including, without
limitation, any state in the United States in which the Company sells or offers to sell its products from time to time.         

ii)  
    Restricted Period   means the period during which you are employed by the Company or its subsidiaries and affiliates and twelve months following the
date that you no longer are employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates for any reason whatsoever.         

d)  
     Severability . You acknowledge and agree that the period, scope and geographic areas of restriction imposed upon you by the provisions of
Section 10 are fair and reasonable and are reasonably required for the protection of the Company. In the event that any part of this Agreement, including, without limitation, Section 10, is held to be unenforceable or invalid, the
remaining parts of this Agreement and Section 10 shall nevertheless continue to be valid and
           
   E-10-1   

enforceable as though the invalid portions were not a part of this Agreement. If any one of the provisions in Section 10 is held to be excessively broad as to period, scope and geographic
areas, any such provision shall be construed by limiting it to the extent necessary to be enforceable under applicable law.          

e)  
   Additional Remedies.  You acknowledge that breach by you of this Agreement would cause irreparable harm to the Company and that in the event of such breach, the
Company shall have, in addition to monetary damages and other remedies at law, the right to an injunction, specific performance and other equitable relief to prevent violations of your obligations hereunder.         

11.  
   DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS AND OTHER ADJUSTMENTS          

a)  
   Crediting of Dividend Equivalents . Subject to this Section 11, dividend equivalents shall be credited on your Performance Share Units (other than
Performance Share Units that, at the relevant record date, previously have been settled or forfeited) as follows, except that the Committee may specify an alternative treatment from that specified in (i), (ii), or (iii) below for any dividend
or distribution:         

i)  
   Cash Dividends . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of cash, then you shall be entitled to a cash payment
amount equal to (A) the amount of such dividend on each outstanding share of Common Stock, multiplied by (B) the number of Performance Share Units credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution (other than
previously settled or forfeited Performance Share Units).         

ii)  
   Non-Share Dividends . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of property other than shares, then a number of
additional Performance Share Units shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution equal to (A) the number of Performance Share Units credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution
(other than previously settled or forfeited Performance Share Units), multiplied by (B) the Fair Market Value of such property actually paid as a dividend or distribution on each outstanding share of Common Stock at such payment date, divided
by (C) the Fair Market Value of a share at such payment date.         

iii)  
   Common Stock Dividends and Splits . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of additional shares, or there occurs
a forward split of Common Stock, then a number of additional Performance Share Units shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution or forward split equal to (A) the number of Performance Share Units credited
to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution or split (other than previously settled or forfeited Performance Share Units), multiplied by (B) the number of additional shares actually paid as a dividend or distribution or
issued in such split in respect of each outstanding share of Common Stock.         

b)  
   Adjustment of Dividend Equivalents . If any Performance Share Unit is forfeited for any reason, including as a result of the failure to attain the Performance
Goals at least at Threshold, any dividend or distribution attributable to such Performance Share Unit, whether in the form of cash or additional Performance Share Units, shall be forfeited on the date on which the underlying Performance Share Unit
is forfeited. If any Performance Share Units are paid at greater or smaller than 100% of Target, the amount of dividend equivalents (if any) credited on such Performance Share Units, whether in the form of cash or additional Performance Share Units,
shall be increased or decreased proportionately to reflect the payout percentage on the underlying Performance Share Units.           
   E-10-1   

c)  
   Payment of Dividend Equivalents . Any cash or Performance Share Units payable under this Section 11 shall be paid or settled on the settlement date for the
underlying Performance Share Unit.         

d)  
   Other Adjustments .   The target number of Performance Share Units, the kind of securities deliverable in settlement of Performance Share Units, and any
performance measure based on per share results shall be appropriately adjusted in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights with respect to the Performance Share Units upon the occurrence of an event referred to in Section 11(c)
of the Plan. In furtherance of the foregoing, in the event of an equity restructuring, as defined in FAS 123R, which affects the Shares, you shall have a legal right to an adjustment to your Performance Share Units which shall preserve without
enlarging the value of the Performance Share Units, with the manner of such adjustment to be determined by the Committee in its discretion. Any Performance Share Units or related rights which directly or indirectly result from an adjustment to a
Performance Share Unit hereunder shall be subject to the same risk of forfeiture and other conditions as apply to the granted Performance Share Unit and will be settled at the same time as the granted Performance Share Unit.

12.  
   EFFECT ON OTHER BENEFITS         In no event shall the value, at any time, of the Performance Share Units or any other payment or right to payment under this Agreement be included as compensation or earnings for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit
plan offered to employees of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates unless otherwise specifically provided for in such plan.       

13.  
   RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT         Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate or any specific position or level of employment with the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate or
affect in any way the right of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate to terminate your employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or no reason.       
    The
Committee shall have full authority and discretion, subject only to the express terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this Agreement, and all such Committee determinations shall be
final, conclusive, and binding upon the Company, any subsidiary or affiliate, you, and all interested parties. Any provision for distribution in settlement of your Performance Share Units and other obligations hereunder shall be by means of
bookkeeping entries on the books of the Company and shall not create in you or any beneficiary any right to, or claim against any, specific assets of the Company, nor result in the creation of any trust or escrow account for you or any beneficiary.
You and any of your beneficiaries entitled to any settlement or other payment hereunder shall be a general creditor of the Company.       
    This Agreement
shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, as amended from time to time, except that Performance Share Units which are the subject of this Agreement may not be materially adversely affected by any amendment or termination of the Plan approved after
the Award Date without your written consent.         
   E-10-1   

16.  
   SEVERABILITY AND VALIDITY         The various provisions of this Agreement are severable and any determination of invalidity or unenforceability of any one provision shall have no effect on the remaining provisions.       
    This
Agreement shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of New York.       
    This
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, and heirs of the respective parties.       
    By entering
into this agreement, you (i) authorize the Company, and any agent of the Company administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of its subsidiaries such information and data as the Company or
any such subsidiary shall request in order to facilitate the grant of Performance Share Units and the administration of the Plan; (ii) waive any data privacy rights you may have with respect to such information; and (iii) authorize the
Company to store and transmit such information in electronic form.       

20.  
   ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND NO ORAL MODIFICATION OR WAIVER         This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties. This Agreement shall not be modified or amended except in writing duly signed by the parties except that the Company may adopt a
modification or amendment to the Agreement that is not materially adverse to you in writing signed only by the Company. Any waiver of any right or failure to perform under this Agreement shall be in writing signed by the party granting the waiver
and shall not be deemed a waiver of any subsequent failure to perform.        

For the Company    

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company   

By:  

Date:  

I have read this Agreement in its entirety. I hereby agree to the foregoing terms and conditions and accept the Performance Share Units Award subject thereto.         
   E-10-1   

Exhibit A       PERFORMANCE SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT       Under the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company
     2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan       2010-2012 Performance Share Units Award          2010 Performance Goals
      The number of 2010 Performance Share Units earned by Participant shall be determined as of December 31, 2010 (the
 Earning Date ), based on the Company s 2010 Net Sales Growth Performance (net of foreign exchange), 2010 Non-GAAP Diluted EPS Performance, and 2010 Working Capital plus Capital Expenditures as a Percent of Net Sales Performance (net
of foreign exchange), each as defined below, determined based on the following grid:       

Performance Measure    
      
   Threshold   
      
   Target   
      
   Maximum    
 
    2010 Net Sales Growth   

2010 Non-GAAP Diluted EPS   

2010 Working Capital plus CAPEX as a Percent of Net Sales   

Participant shall earn 37.49% (weighted average) of the target number of 2010 Performance Share Units for
 Threshold Performance,  100% of the target number of 2010 Performance Share Units for  Target Performance,  and 167.50% of the target number of 2010 Performance Share Units for  Maximum Performance.  For this purpose,
2010 Net Sales Growth Performance and 2010 Working Capital plus Capital Expenditures as a Percent of Net Sales Performance are weighted 25% each, and 2010 Non-GAAP Diluted EPS Performance is weighted 50%, so level of earning of 2010 Performance
Share Units shall be determined on a weighted-average basis.      Determinations of the Committee regarding 2010 Net Sales Growth Performance,
2010 Non-GAAP Diluted EPS Performance, and 2010 Working Capital plus Capital Expenditures as a Percent of Net Sales Performance, and the resulting 2010 Performance Share Units earned, and related matters, will be final and binding on Participant. In
making its determinations, the Committee may exercise its discretion (reserved under Plan Sections 7(a) and 7(b)(v)) to reduce the amount of Performance Share Units deemed earned, in its sole discretion.         
   E-10-1   

</EX-10.AA>

<EX-10.DD>
 3
 dex10dd.htm
 FORM OF 2007 MARKET SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT

Form of 2007 Market Share Units Agreement 

Exhibit 10dd.    

FORM OF MARKET SHARE UNITS AGREEMENT       UNDER THE BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY      2007 STOCK AWARD AND
INCENTIVE PLAN      BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), has granted to you the Market
Share Units ( MSUs ) specified in the Grant Summary above, which is incorporated into this Market Share Units Agreement (the  Agreement ) and deemed to be a part hereof. The MSUs have been granted to you under Sections 6(i) and 7
of the 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), on the terms and conditions specified in the Grant Summary and this Agreement.       

1.  
   MARKET SHARE UNITS AWARD         The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the  Committee ) has granted to you on the Award Date an Award of MSUs as designated herein subject to the terms,
conditions, and restrictions set forth in this Agreement and the Plan. Each MSU shall represent the conditional right to receive, upon settlement of the MSU, one share of Bristol-Myers Squibb Common Stock ( Common Stock ) (subject to any
tax withholding as described in Section 4). MSUs include the right to receive dividend equivalents as specified in Section 5 ( Dividend Equivalents ). The purpose of such Award is to motivate and retain you as an employee of the
Company or a subsidiary of the Company, to encourage you to continue to give your best efforts for the Company s future success, to increase your proprietary interest in the Company, and to further align your compensation with the interests of
the Company s shareholders. Except as may be required by law, you are not required to make any payment (other than payments for taxes pursuant to Section 4 hereof) or provide any consideration other than the rendering of future services to
the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.       

2.  
   RESTRICTIONS, FORFEITURES, AND SETTLEMENT         Except as otherwise provided in this Section 2, MSUs shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth herein during the Restricted Period (as defined below). Vesting of the MSUs is
conditioned upon you remaining continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company following the Award Date until the relevant Vesting Date, subject to the provisions of this Section 2. In addition, for purposes of vesting, the
MSU grant shall be divided into four tranches, each of which shall include 25% of the number of MSUs specified in the Grant Summary above and any additional MSUs and/or cash that results from Dividend Equivalents that are attributable to the MSUs in
that tranche.      Assuming satisfaction of such employment conditions, the MSUs shall vest only if the Share Price (as defined
below) on the applicable Vesting Date equals at least 60% of the Share Price on the Award Date.
        
   E-10-2   

If this threshold condition is satisfied, MSUs shall vest to the extent provided in the following schedule:       

(A)       Tranche    
      
     (B)       MSUs in       Tranche    
      
     (C)       Vesting Date    
      
     (D)       Payout Factor    
      
     (E)       Number of MSUs       Vested     

1  
      
  25% of Total  
      
  1   st    Anniversary of Award Date  
      
  Share Price on Vesting Date divided by Share Price on Award Date  
      
  MSUs in Tranche (Column B)  times  Payout Factor (Column D)   

2  
      
  25% of Total  
      
  2   nd    Anniversary of Award Date  
      
  Share Price on Vesting Date divided by Share Price on Award Date  
      
  MSUs in Tranche (Column B)  times  Payout Factor (Column D)   

3  
      
  25% of Total  
      
  3   rd    Anniversary of Award Date  
      
  Share Price on Vesting Date divided by Share Price on Award Date  
      
  MSUs in Tranche (Column B)  times  Payout Factor (Column D)   

4  
      
  25% of Total  
      
  4   th    Anniversary of Award Date  
      
  Share Price on Vesting Date divided by Share Price on Award Date  
      
  MSUs in Tranche (Column B)  times  Payout Factor (Column D)       For purposes of the table set forth above        

(A)  
   Share Price  shall equal the average of the closing share price of the Company s Common Stock on the Vesting Date or Award Date, as applicable, and the
nine trading days immediately preceding the Vesting Date or Award Date. If there were no trades on the Vesting Date or Award Date, the closing price on most recent date on which there were trades and the nine trading days immediately preceding that
date shall be used.         

(B)  
   Payout Factor  shall be rounded to the nearest hundredth (two places after the decimal), except that if the  Payout Factor  equals more than 2.00,
the Payout Factor used in Column E shall be 2.00. Notwithstanding the formula in the table, the Payout Factor for any Vesting Date that occurs on or after a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan) shall equal the Share Price on the Change in
Control Date divided by the Share Price on the Award Date.        Any MSUs that fail to vest, either because the
employment condition is not satisfied or because the Payout Factor on the applicable Vesting Date is less than 60% shall be forfeited, subject to the special provisions set forth in paragraphs (c) through (g) of this Section 2.

(a)  
   Nontransferability . During the Restricted Period and any further period prior to settlement of your MSUs, you may not sell, transfer, pledge or assign any of the
MSUs or your rights relating thereto.         

(b)  
     Time of Settlement . MSUs shall be settled promptly upon expiration of the Restricted Period without forfeiture of the MSUs (i.e., upon vesting)
by delivery of one share of Common Stock for each MSU being settled; provided, however, that settlement of an MSU shall be subject to Plan Section 11(k), including, if applicable, the six-month delay rule in Plan Section 11(k)(i)(C) to the
extent the MSUs are subject to Section 409A of the
           
   E-10-2   

Code, payment is on account of your  separation from service  and you are a  key employee,  both within the meaning of Section 409A. ( Note: This rule may apply to any
portion of the MSUs that vests after the time you become Retirement eligible under the Plan, and could apply in other cases as well ). Settlement of MSUs which directly or indirectly result from non-cash Dividend Equivalents on MSUs or
adjustments to MSUs shall occur at the time of settlement of the granted MSUs. Until shares are delivered to you in settlement of MSUs, you shall have none of the rights of a stockholder of the Company with respect to the shares issuable in
settlement of the MSUs, including the right to vote the shares and receive actual dividends and other distributions on the underlying shares of Common Stock (you are entitled to Dividend Equivalents, however). Shares of stock issuable in settlement
of MSUs shall be delivered to you upon settlement in certificated form or in such other manner as the Company may reasonably determine.          

(c)  
     Retirement . In the event of your Retirement (as that term is defined in section 2(v)(i) of the Plan) at or after your 65   th    birthday and prior to the end of the Restricted Period, the
continuous employment requirement shall be eliminated and you shall vest in and be entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) any MSUs that have not previously been vested or forfeited, provided that you
have been continuously employed by the Company for at least one year following the Award Date and your employment has not been terminated by the Company for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company. Any MSU that
vests on your Retirement Date shall vest based on the Payout Factor determined by substituting your Retirement date (or the date of a Change in Control, if a Change in Control has occurred before your Retirement) for the Vesting Date.

(d)  
     Early Retirement; Termination not for Misconduct/Detrimental Conduct . This paragraph 2(d) shall apply in the event of (1) your Retirement
(as that term is defined in section 2(v)(ii) or 2(v)(iii) of the Plan) (A) at or after age 55 with at least 10 years of service or (B) after attaining eligibility for the  Rule of 70  or (2) the termination of your
employment by the Company for reasons other than misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company (and you are not eligible for Retirement). If one of the events described in the preceding sentence occurs before the end
of the Restricted Period, the continuous employment requirement shall be eliminated and you shall vest in and be entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the MSUs that would
otherwise have vested on the Vesting Date that next follows the date on which the event occurs, provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company for at least one year following the Award Date and your employment has not been
terminated by the Company for misconduct or other conduct deemed detrimental to the interests of the Company. Any MSU that vests on your early Retirement or termination date shall vest based on the Payout Factor determined by substituting your
Retirement or termination date (or the date of a Change in Control, if a Change in Control has occurred before your early Retirement or termination) for the Vesting Date. If you are employed in the United States (including in Puerto Rico), you shall
be entitled to the pro rata vesting described in the preceding sentence only if you execute and do not revoke a release in favor of the Company and its predecessors, successors, affiliates, subsidiaries, directors and employees in a form
satisfactory to the Company and, where deemed applicable by the Company, a non-compete and/or a non-solicitation agreement; if you fail to execute or revoke the release or fail to execute the non-compete or non-solicitation agreement, you shall
forfeit any MSUs that are unvested as of the date your employment terminates. The formula for determining the proportionate number of your MSUs to become vested and non-forfeitable
           
   E-10-2   

upon your early Retirement or involuntary termination not for misconduct or other detrimental conduct is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 345 Park Avenue, New
York, New York 10154.          

(e)  
   Death . In the event of your death during the Restricted Period, the continuous employment requirement shall be eliminated and your estate shall vest in and be
entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire with respect to) a proportionate number of the MSUs that would otherwise have vested, provided that you have been continuously employed by the Company for at least one year
following the Award Date. Any MSU that vests on your death shall vest based on the Payout Factor determined by substituting your date of death (or the date of a Change in Control, if a Change in Control has occurred before your death) for the
Vesting Date. The formula for determining the proportionate number of your MSUs to become vested and non-forfeitable upon your death is available by request from the Office of the Corporate Secretary at 345 Park Avenue, New York, New York 10154. In
the event of your death prior to the delivery of shares in settlement of MSUs (not previously forfeited), shares in settlement of your MSUs shall be delivered to your estate, upon presentation to the Committee of letters testamentary or other
documentation satisfactory to the Committee, and your estate shall succeed to any other rights provided hereunder in the event of your death.         

(f)  
   Disability . In the event you become Disabled (as that term is defined below), for the period during which you continue to be deemed to be employed by the Company
or a subsidiary (i.e., the period during which you receive Disability benefits), you will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of the MSUs. Upon the termination of your receipt of Disability benefits, (i) you will not be
deemed to have terminated employment if you return to employment status, and (ii), if you do not return to employment status, you will be deemed to have terminated employment at the date of cessation of payments to you under all disability pay plans
of the Company and its subsidiaries, with such termination treated for purposes of the MSUs as a Retirement, death, or voluntary termination based on your circumstances at the time of such termination. For purposes of this Agreement,
 Disability  or  Disabled  shall mean qualifying for and receiving payments under a disability plan of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate either in the United States or in a jurisdiction outside of the United States, and
in jurisdictions outside of the United States shall also include qualifying for and receiving payments under a mandatory or universal disability plan or program managed or maintained by the government.         

(g)  
   Qualifying Termination Following Change in Control . In the event your employment is terminated by reason of a Qualifying Termination (as defined in the Plan)
during the three- (3) year period following a Change in Control (as defined in the Plan), the continuous employment requirement shall be eliminated and you shall vest in and be entitled to settlement of (i.e., the Restricted Period shall expire
with respect to) any MSUs that have not previously been forfeited. Any MSU that vests following a Qualifying Termination during the three- (3) year period following a Change in Control shall vest based on the Payout Factor determined by
substituting the Change in Control Date for the Vesting Date.         

(h)  
   Other Termination of Employment . In the event of your voluntary termination, or termination by the Company for misconduct or other conduct deemed by the Company
to be detrimental to the interests of the Company, you shall forfeit all unvested MSUs on the date of termination.           
   E-10-2   

(i)  
   Other Terms .         

(i)  
  In the event that you fail promptly to pay or make satisfactory arrangements as to the withholding taxes as provided in Section 4, all MSUs then subject to
restriction shall be forfeited by you and shall be deemed to be reacquired by the Company.         

(ii)  
  You may, at any time prior to the expiration of the Restricted Period, waive all rights with respect to all or some of the MSUs by delivering to the Company a written
notice of such waiver.         

(iii)  
  Termination of employment includes any event if immediately thereafter you are no longer an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, subject to
Section 2(i) hereof. References in this Section 2 to employment by the Company include employment by a subsidiary of the Company. Termination of employment means an event after which you are no longer employed by the Company or any
subsidiary of the Company. Such an event could include the disposition of a subsidiary or business unit by the Company or a subsidiary.         

(iv)  
  Upon any termination of your employment, any MSUs as to which the Restricted Period has not expired at or before such termination shall be forfeited, subject to
Section 2(c)-(g). Other provisions of this Agreement notwithstanding, in no event will an MSU that has been forfeited thereafter vest or be settled.         

(j)  
  The following events shall not be deemed a termination of employment:         

(i)  
  A transfer of you from the Company to a subsidiary, or vice versa, or from one subsidiary to another;         

(ii)  
  A leave of absence, duly authorized in writing by the Company, for military service or sickness or for any other purpose approved by the Company if the period of such
leave does not exceed ninety (90) days; and         

(iii)  
  A leave of absence in excess of ninety (90) days, duly authorized in writing, by the Company, provided your right to reemployment is guaranteed either by a statute
or by contract.        However, failure of you to return to active service with the Company or a subsidiary at the end
of an approved leave of absence shall be deemed a termination of employment. During a leave of absence as defined in (ii) or (iii), although you will be considered to have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary and not to
have had a termination of employment under this Section 2, the Committee may specify that such leave period shall not be counted in determining the period of employment for purposes of the vesting of the MSUs. In such case, the vesting dates
for unvested MSUs shall be extended by the length of any such leave of absence.         
   E-10-2   

3.  
   FORFEITURE IN THE EVENT OF COMPETITION AND/OR SOLICITATION OR OTHER DETRIMENTAL ACTS         You acknowledge that your continued employment with the Company and the grant of MSUs is sufficient consideration for this Agreement,
including, without limitation, the restrictions imposed upon you by this Section 3.       

(a)  
  By accepting the MSUs, you expressly agree and covenant that during the Restricted Period (as defined below) and the Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period (as
defined below), you shall not, without the prior consent of the Company, directly or indirectly:         

(i)  
  own or have any financial interest in a Competitive Business (as defined below), except that nothing in this clause shall prevent you from owning one per cent or less
of the outstanding securities of any entity whose securities are traded on a U.S. national securities exchange (including NASDAQ) or an equivalent foreign exchange;         

(ii)  
  be actively connected with a Competitive Business by managing, operating, controlling, being an employee or consultant (or accepting an offer to be an employee or
consultant) or otherwise advising or assisting a Competitive Business in such a way that such connection might result in an increase in value or worth of any product, technology or service, that competes with any product, technology or service upon
which you worked or about which you became familiar as a result of your employment with the Company. You may, however, be actively connected with a Competitive Business after your employment with the Company terminates for any reason, so long as
your connection to the business does not involve any product, technology or service, that competes with any product, technology or service upon which you worked or about which you became familiar as a result of your employment with the Company and
the Company is provided written assurances of this fact from the Competing Company prior to your beginning such connection.         

(iii)  
  take any action that might divert any opportunity from the Company or any of its affiliates, successors or assigns (the  Related Parties ) that is within the
scope of the present or future operations or business of any Related Parties;         

(iv)  
  employ, solicit for employment, advise or recommend to any other person that they employ or solicit for employment or form an association with any person who is
employed by the Company or who has been employed by the Company within one year of the date your employment with the Company ceased for any reason whatsoever;         

(v)  
  contact, call upon or solicit any customer of the Company, or attempt to divert or take away from the Company the business of any of its customers;

(vi)  
  contact, call upon or solicit any prospective customer of the Company that you became aware of or were introduced to in the course of your duties for the Company, or
otherwise divert or take away from the Company the business of any prospective customer of the Company; or         

(vii)  
    engage in any activity that is harmful to the interests of the Company, including, without limitation, any conduct during the term of your employment
that violates
           
   E-10-2   

the Company s Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics, securities trading policy and other policies.          

(b)  
   Forfeiture . If the Committee determines that you have violated any provisions of Section 3(a) above during the Restricted Period or the Non-Competition and
Non-Solicitation Period, then you agree and covenant that:         

(i)  
  any unvested portion of the MSUs shall be immediately rescinded;         

(ii)  
  you shall automatically forfeit any rights you may have with respect to the MSUs as of the date of such determination; and         

(iii)  
  if any part of the MSUs vests within the twelve-month period immediately preceding a violation of Section 3(a) above (or following the date of any such violation),
upon the Company s demand, you shall immediately deliver to it a certificate or certificates for shares of the Company s Common Stock that you acquired upon settlement of such MSUs (or an equivalent number of other shares).

(c)  
   Definitions . For purposes of this Agreement, the following definitions shall apply:         

(i)  
  The Company directly advertises and solicits business from customers wherever they may be found and its business is thus worldwide in scope. Therefore,
 Competitive Business  means any person or entity that engages in any business activity that competes with the Company s business in any way, in any geographic area in which the Company engages in business, including, without
limitation, any state in the United States in which the Company sells or offers to sell its products from time to time.         

(ii)  
   Non-Competition and Non-Solicitation Period  means the period during which you are employed by the Company and twelve months following the date that you
cease to be employed by the Company for any reason whatsoever.         

(iii)  
   Restricted Period  means, with respect to each MSU, the period from the Award Date until the date such MSU has become vested and non-forfeitable
( i.e.,  the Vesting Date).         

(d)  
   Severability . You acknowledge and agree that the period, scope and geographic areas of restriction imposed upon you by the provisions of Section 3 are fair
and reasonable and are reasonably required for the protection of the Company. In the event that all or any part of this Section 3 is held to be unenforceable or invalid, the remaining parts of Section 3 and this Agreement shall
nevertheless continue to be valid and enforceable as though the invalid portions were not a part of this Agreement. If any one of the provisions in Section 3 is held to be excessively broad as to period, scope and geographic areas, any such
provision shall be construed by limiting it to the extent necessary to be enforceable under applicable law.         

(e)  
     Additional Remedies . You acknowledge that breach by you of this Agreement would cause irreparable harm to the Company and that in the event of
such breach, the Company shall have, in addition to monetary damages and other remedies at law, the
           
   E-10-2   

right to an injunction, specific performance and other equitable relief to prevent violations of your obligations hereunder.          
    At such time as
the Company is required to withhold taxes with respect to the MSUs, or at an earlier date as determined by the Company, you shall make remittance to the Company of an amount sufficient to cover such taxes or make such other arrangement regarding
payments of such taxes as are satisfactory to the Committee. The Company and its subsidiaries shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct such amount from any payment of any kind otherwise due to you, including by means of
mandatory withholding of shares deliverable in settlement of your MSUs to satisfy the mandatory tax withholding requirements. Prior to settlement of the MSUs, the Dividend Equivalents payable to you will be compensation (wages) for tax purposes and
will be included on your W-2 form. The Company will be required to withhold applicable taxes on such Dividend Equivalents. The Company may deduct such taxes either from the gross Dividend Equivalents payable on such MSUs or from any other cash
payments to be made to or on account of you or may require you to make prompt remittance to the Company of such tax amounts. Any cash payment to you under Section 5 of the Agreement will be included in your W-2 form as compensation and subject
to applicable tax withholding.       

5.  
   DIVIDEND EQUIVALENTS AND ADJUSTMENTS          

(a)  
  Dividend Equivalents shall be paid or credited on MSUs (other than MSUs that, at the relevant record date, previously have been settled or forfeited) as follows, except
that the Committee may specify an alternative treatment from that specified in (i), (ii), or (iii) below for any dividend or distribution:         

(i)  
   Cash Dividends . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of cash, then you shall be entitled to a cash payment
amount equal to (A) the amount of such dividend on each outstanding share of Common Stock, multiplied by (B) the number of MSUs credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution (other than previously settled or
forfeited MSUs), multiplied by (C) the Payout Factor that applies to the MSU with respect to which the cash dividend is being paid. Any cash payment made under this section shall be paid on the settlement date for the underlying MSU.

(ii)  
   Non-Share Dividends . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of property other than shares, then a number of
additional MSUs shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution equal to (A) the number of MSUs credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or distribution (other than previously settled or
forfeited MSUs), multiplied by (B) the Fair Market Value of such property actually paid as a dividend or distribution on each outstanding share of Common Stock at such payment date, divided by (C) the Fair Market Value of a share at such
payment date. Any MSUs payable under this section shall be settled on the settlement date for the underlying MSU and shall be subject to the Payout Factor that applies to the underlying MSU.         

(iii)  
     Common Stock Dividends and Splits . If the Company declares and pays a dividend or distribution on Common Stock in the form of additional shares,
or there occurs a forward split of Common Stock, then a number of additional MSUs
           
   E-10-2   

shall be credited to you as of the payment date for such dividend or distribution or forward split equal to (A) the number of MSUs credited to you as of the record date for such dividend or
distribution or split (other than previously settled or forfeited MSUs), multiplied by (B) the number of additional shares actually paid as a dividend or distribution or issued in such split in respect of each outstanding share of Common Stock.
Any MSUs payable under this section shall be settled on the settlement date for the underlying MSU and shall be subject to the Payout Factor that applies to the underlying MSU.          

(b)  
  The number of your MSUs and other related terms shall be appropriately adjusted, in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of your rights with respect to MSUs, to
reflect any changes in the outstanding shares of Common Stock resulting from any event referred to in Section 11(c) of the Plan or any other  equity restructuring  as defined in FAS 123R, taking into account any MSUs credited to you
in connection with such event under Section 5(a).         

6.  
   EFFECT ON OTHER BENEFITS         In no event shall the value, at any time, of the MSUs or any other payment under this Agreement be included as compensation or earnings for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to employees of the Company
unless otherwise specifically provided for in such plan.       

7.  
   RIGHT TO CONTINUED EMPLOYMENT         Nothing in the Plan or this Agreement shall confer on you any right to continue in the employ of the Company or any subsidiary or any specific position or level of employment with the Company or any subsidiary or affect in any way the right
of the Company or any subsidiary to terminate your employment without prior notice at any time for any reason or no reason.       

8.  
   ADMINISTRATION; UNFUNDED OBLIGATIONS         The Committee shall have full authority and discretion, subject only to the express terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this
Agreement, and all such Committee determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Company, you, and all interested parties. Any provision for distribution in settlement of your MSUs and other obligations hereunder shall be by means
of bookkeeping entries on the books of the Company and shall not create in you or any beneficiary any right to, or claim against any, specific assets of the Company, nor result in the creation of any trust or escrow account for you or any
beneficiary. You and any of your beneficiaries entitled to any settlement or distribution hereunder shall be a general creditor of the Company.       

9.  
   AMENDMENT         This Agreement
shall be subject to the terms of the Plan, as amended from time to time, except that the Award which is the subject of this Agreement may not be materially adversely affected by any amendment or termination of the Plan approved after the Award Date
without your written consent.         
   E-10-2   

10.  
   SEVERABILITY AND VALIDITY         The various provisions of this Agreement are severable, and any determination of invalidity or unenforceability of any one provision shall have no effect on the remaining provisions.       
    This
Agreement shall be governed by the substantive laws (but not the choice of law rules) of the State of New York.       
    This
Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, and heirs of the respective parties.       
    By entering
into this agreement, you (i) authorize the Company, and any agent of the Company administering the Plan or providing Plan recordkeeping services, to disclose to the Company or any of its subsidiaries such information and data as the Company or
any such subsidiary shall request in order to facilitate the grant of MSUs and the administration of the Plan; (ii) waive any data privacy rights you may have with respect to such information; and (iii) authorize the company to store and
transmit such information in electronic form.       

14.  
   ENTIRE AGREEMENT AND NO ORAL MODIFICATION OR WAIVER         This Agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties. This Agreement shall not be modified or amended except in writing duly signed by the parties, except that the Company may adopt a
modification or amendment to the Agreement that is not materially adverse to you in writing signed only by the Company. Any waiver of any right or failure to perform under this Agreement shall be in writing signed by the party granting the waiver
and shall not be deemed a waiver of any subsequent failure to perform.        

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company   
 
  By  

I
have read this Agreement in its entirety. I understand that this Award has been granted to provide a means for me to acquire and/or expand an ownership position in Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, and it is expected that I will retain the stock I
receive upon the vesting of this award consistent with the Company s share retention guidelines. I acknowledge and agree that sales of shares will be subject to the Company s policy regulating trading by employees. In accepting this Award,
I hereby agree that Smith Barney, or such other vendor as the Company may choose to administer the Plan, may
        
   E-10-2   

provide the Company with any and all account information necessary to monitor my compliance with the Company s Share Retention Policy and other applicable policies.      I hereby agree to all the terms, restrictions and conditions set forth in the Agreement.         
   E-10-2   

</EX-10.DD>

<EX-10.TT>
 4
 dex10tt.htm
 BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY 1987 DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 1987 Deferred Compensation Plan 

Exhibit 10tt.         BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB COMPANY          1987
DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN          FOR NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTORS         AMENDED EFFECTIVE DECEMBER 17, 2009        Section 1 .       Effective Date .      The effective date of this Bristol-Myers Squibb Company 1987 Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the  Plan ) is January 20, 1987, except the provisions of Section 12 are effective as of January 1,
2005.       Section 2 .       Eligibility .      Any Director of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the  Company ) who is not an officer or employee of the Company or a subsidiary
thereof is eligible to participate in the Plan.       Section 3 .       Deferred
Compensation Account .      There shall be established on the books of the Company for each participant a deferred compensation
account in the participant s name. At the time a participant commences participation in the Plan, he or she shall elect to have the amounts deferred under Section 4 credited to his or her account among the notional investments described
below. In accordance with the procedures set forth by the Corporate Secretary s Office of the Company, (i) a participant may elect to change the allocation of future deferrals among the notional investments, and (ii) during the
deferral period, a participant may reallocate amounts previously deferred among the notional investments.       

(a)  
   Treasury Units . The amount credited to a participant s deferred compensation account as Treasury Units shall be credited with interest at a rate equal to
six-month United States Treasury bill yield for the end of the calendar quarter.         

(b)  
   Dollar Units . The amount credited to a participant s deferred compensation account as Dollar Units shall be credited with interest at a rate that is equal
to the Company s weighted average return on cash investment during the current calendar quarter.         

(c)  
   Share Units .         

i.  
  The amount credited to a participant s deferred compensation account as Share Units shall be credited in shares of the Company s common stock equal to the
number of shares of the Company s common stock which could have been purchased with the amounts deferred determined by dividing the dollar value of the amounts deferred by the Fair Market Value of a share of the Company s common stock on
the effective date of such deferral.         

ii.  
  Upon payment by the Company of dividends on its common stock, additional Share Units shall be credited to a participant s deferred compensation account equal to
the number of Share Units in the participant s account as of the record date multiplied by the amount paid per share in such dividend or distribution divided by the Fair Market Value of a share of common stock at the payment date of such
dividend. For purposes of this Plan,  Fair Market Value  shall mean the average of the high and low sale prices of a share of the company s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape on the date of measurement or, if
there were no trades on such date, on the day on which a trade occurred last preceding such date.           
   E-10-3   

iii.  
  The amount of Share Units in a participant s deferred compensation account shall be adjusted to take into account a merger, consolidation, reorganization,
recapitalization, stock split, other change in corporate structure or capitalization affecting the Company s common stock, or other equity restructuring (as that term is used in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R), with
such adjustment to preserve without enlarging the rights of a participant with respect to such Share Units. The manner of such adjustment shall be in the discretion of the Corporate Secretary s Office of the Company.     

iv.  
  Except as provided in Section 6(b) below, Share Units credited before December 17, 2009 are settleable solely in cash, and are referred to herein as
 Cash-Settled Share Units,  and Share Units credited on or after December 17, 2009 (and converted Share Units, as provided in Section 6(b) below) are settleable solely by delivery of whole shares of Common Stock, and are referred
to herein as  Stock-Settled Share Units.          Section 4 .       Participant Deferrals .       

(a)  
   Mandatory Deferrals . The Board of Directors shall determine the number of Share Units payable, as of February 1 of each year, to the participant in payment
for membership and service on the Board of Directors. A new member of the Board of Directors who is eligible to participate in the Plan shall receive, on the date the Director joins the Board, a pro-rata number of Share Units based on the number of
Share Units payable to participants as of the prior February 1. For this purpose, the prorata portion shall be determined in accordance with the procedures set forth by the Corporate Secretary s Office of the Company. Such Share Units
shall be deferred and credited to such participant s deferred compensation account pursuant to Section 3. In addition, twenty-five (25) percent of the retainer fee payable to the participant for membership on the Board of Directors
shall be deferred and credited to such participant s deferred compensation account as Share Units until the end of the earliest calendar year at which the participant has met a guideline level of Share Unit or Company common stock ownership as
determined by the Board of Directors and then in effect.         

(b)  
   Elective Deferrals . A participant may elect, by filing the appropriate form pursuant to Section 8, to defer receipt for any calendar year of either
(1) all of the compensation payable to the participant for serving on the Board of Directors and any committee thereof, (2) only the retainer fee payable to the participant for service on the board of directors, or (3) any percentage,
equal to or exceeding twenty-five percent of the compensation payable to the participant specified in clause (1) hereof.         

(c)  
   Discretionary Deferrals . The Board of Directors may, in its sole discretion, provide additional compensation to eligible directors in the form of Share Units,
with such Share Units being deferred and credited to the participant s deferred compensation account pursuant to Section 3.         Section 5 .       Period of Deferral .      A participant may elect to defer receipt of compensation either (1) until a specified year in the future, but in no event more than five years after termination of service, (2) until the cessation of the participant s service
as a Director or (3) until the end of the calendar year in which the cessation of the participant s service as a Director occurs. If alternative (1) is elected, payment will be made or will commence on February 1 of the year
specified; if alternative (2) is elected, payment will be made or will commence on the date that is sixty days after the cessation of the participant s service as a director; and if alternative (3) is elected, payment will be made or
will commence on February 1 after the end of the calendar year in which the cessation of the participant s service as a Director occurs. Installment payments under the Plan will be made on the anniversary of the applicable
        
   E-10-3   

commencement date. If any payment date specified under the Plan is not a business day, the payment will be made on the first business day thereafter. For purposes of this Plan, cessation of
service as a Director means a  separation from service  as defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(h).       Section 6 .       Form of Payment .      (a)  Lump-Sum or
Installments . A participant may elect to receive distributions of the deferred compensation under the Plan in either (1) a lump sum or (2) a number of installments, not more than ten, as specified by the participant. If installment
payments are elected, the amount of each installment shall be equal to the balance in the participant s deferred compensation account divided by the number of installments remaining to be paid (including the installment in question). Elections
under this Section 6(a) shall be made by the applicable deadline under Section 8, except as otherwise permitted under Section 12.      (b)  Settlement in Cash or Shares . Cash-Settled Share Units and other deferrals, but not Stock-Settled Share Units, will be settled in cash. Stock-Settled Share Units will be settled by delivery of
one share of Common Stock for each whole Share Unit being settled. The Corporate Secretary may agree with a participant to convert Cash-Settled Share Units into Stock-Settled Share Units at a date designated by the Secretary for such conversion, if
the participant previously has filed an election to make such conversion as to all of the Participant s then outstanding Cash-Settled Share Units. Until the conversion date, the Company shall be under no obligation to make such conversion, and
the Corporate Secretary shall retain discretion not to accept participants  offers to convert the Cash-Settled Share Units to Stock-Settled Share Units. Upon conversion, the Share Units will be settleable solely by delivery of shares of Common
Stock, and the participant shall have no right to a cash settlement of the Share Units (except as may be provided in connection with an adjustment under Section 3(c)(iii) or cash in lieu of a fractional share). Stock-Settled Share Units will be
deemed to be Stock Units granted under Section 6(e) of the 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan ( 2007 SAIP ), and this Plan shall be deemed a sub-plan under the 2007 SAIP (or any successor plan to the 2007 SAIP then in effect) such
that shares issued in settlement of those Stock-Settled Share Units will be drawn from the 2007 SAIP (or such successor Plan). For any settlement of Cash-Settled Share Units, the dollar value of the Cash-Settled Share Units shall be determined by
multiplying the number of such Share Units credited to a participant s deferred compensation account on the date of such settlement by the Fair Market Value on such date.       Section 7 .       Death of Participant .      A participant may elect that, in the event he or she dies prior to receipt of any or all of the amounts payable pursuant
to this Plan, any amounts remaining in the participant s deferred compensation account shall be paid to the participant s estate in either (1) a lump sum paid on the 60   th    day following the participant s death or (2) a number of annual installments, not more than ten, as
specified by the participant. If alternative (2) is elected and payment to the participant pursuant to clause (2) of Section 6 has not commenced prior to death, the initial installment payment hereunder shall be made sixty days after
the participant s death, with subsequent installment payments on the anniversary of the commencement date, and the amount of each such installment shall be determined as provided in the last sentence of Section 6. If alternative
(2) is elected and payment to the participant pursuant to clause (2) of Section 6 had commenced prior to death, the installment payments to the participant s estate shall be made at the same time and in the same amount as such
payments would have been made to the participant had he or she survived. For purposes of this Section 7, the dollar value of Cash-Settled Share Units (but not Stock-Settled Share Units) shall be determined by multiplying the number of Share
Units credited to a participant s deferred compensation account on the date of his death by the Fair Market Value on such date. Any election permitted under this Section 7 must be made prior to the year of deferral, except that
        
   E-10-3   

an election may be made not later than December 31, 2008 to the extent permitted under applicable rules under Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (the  Code ).
      Section 8 .       Time of Election of Deferral .      An election to defer compensation may be made by (i) a first-time nominee for election as a Director prior to his/her election for the
remainder of the calendar year in which he/she is being elected (except that a person newly elected a Director by the Board of Directors may make an election to defer compensation within 30 days after his/her election as a Director, in which event
such election to defer compensation shall be effective only with respect to compensation paid for services performed after the election to defer compensation is made) and (ii) a person then currently serving as a Director for the next
succeeding calendar year no later than the preceding December 31. This election will be deemed to be an election to defer compensation under this Plan for each succeeding calendar year, unless (1) the participant elects, in accordance with
Section 11, to discontinue the deferral, (2) the Board of Directors discontinues the Plan in accordance with Code Section 409A, or (3) the election is stated, in writing, to apply only to the first calendar year applicable under
(i) or (ii) above.       Section 9         Status of Previous
Deferrals .      Any deferral election made under the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company Amended and Restated Deferred Compensation
Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the  Prior Plan ), and the resulting deferrals, shall be subject to and governed by the terms of the Prior Plan.       Section 10 .     Manner of Electing Deferral .      A participant may elect to defer compensation by giving written notice to the Corporate Secretary s Office of the Company on a form provided by the Company, which notice shall include the amount to be deferred, the form in which the
amount deferred is to be credited, the period of deferral, and the form of payment (including the number of installments, if any).       Section 11 .     Effect of Election .      An election to defer
compensation, including the form of deferral, shall be irrevocable by the participant once the calendar year to which it applies has commenced. An election may be discontinued or modified by the participant with respect to calendar years not yet
begun by notifying the Corporate Secretary s Office of the Company in writing no later than December 31   st 
   of the preceding year. The following default rules will apply if no valid election is on file specifying the matter or the intent of the participant with respect to the matter is not clearly
indicated in the applicable election that is on file;       

(i)  
  The default allocation of deferred amounts will be as Dollar Units under Section 3(b);         

(ii)  
  The default period of deferral under Section 5 will be until the cessation of the participant s service as a Director;         

(iii)  
  The default form of payment under Section 6 will be a lump sum; and         

(iv)  
    The default distribution payable upon the death of participant will be as a lump sum paid on the 60   th    day following the participant s death.            
   E-10-3   

Section 12 .     Further Election .      The participant shall have the one-time right with regard to funds previously deferred to elect a further deferral of the payment of such
funds by delivering to the Corporate Secretary s Office a written statement in a form provided by the Company specifying the further period of deferral and the form of payment, including the number of installments, if any, subject to the
following rules:       

(i)  
  Any such election may not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which the election is made;         

(ii)  
  If any such election relates to payments that are subject to alternatives under Section 5, the first payment with respect to such election shall be made not
earlier than five years after the date payment would have been made absent the further deferral election under this Section 12; and         

(iii)  
  Any such election relating to a payment subject to alternative (1) under Section 5 shall not be effective if made fewer than 12 months before the date of the
first scheduled payment (including the earliest of a series of installment payments).        The foregoing
notwithstanding, and subject to any rules or limitations that may be imposed by the Corporate Secretary s Office of the Company, (a) deferrals and redeferrals may be permitted by the Corporate Secretary s Office of the Company in
accordance with the rules set forth on Exhibit A, and (b) a participant may make an election in the period 2005 through 2008 to change the timing of any payment previously elected by the participant (except that such election may not apply to a
payment scheduled to be made in the year of the election and may not result in a distribution scheduled for a later year to be made in the year of election), and subject to the rules under Code Section 409A (including Proposed Treasury
Regulation  1.409A, Preamble  XI.C., and Question and Answer 19(c) of IRS Notice 2005-1).       Section 13 .     Participant s Rights Unsecured .      The right of any
Participant to receive future payments under the provisions of the Plan shall be an unsecured claim against the general assets of the Company.       Section 14 .     Statement of Account .      A
statement will be sent to each participant each year as to the value of his/her deferred compensation account as of the end of the preceding year.       Section 15 .     Assignability .      No right to
receive payments hereunder shall be transferable or assignable by a participant, except by will or under the laws of descent and distribution, or subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, pledge, encumbrance, attachment, or garnishment by creditors
of the participant or the participant s beneficiary.       Section 16 .     Administration .      This Plan will be administered by the Corporate
Secretary s Office of the Company, which shall have the authority to adopt rules and regulations to carry out the Plan and to interpret, construe and implement the provisions of the Plan; to resolve questions arising in the administration of
the Plan; and to adopt such rules and procedures as it may deem advisable for the administration of the Plan.         
   E-10-3   

Section 17 .     Amendment .      This Plan may at any time or from time to time be amended, modified or terminated by the Board of Directors. No amendment, modification or
termination shall, without the consent of the participant, adversely affect such participant s accruals in his/her deferred compensation account as of the date of amendment, modification or termination.       Section 18 .     Compliance with Code Section 409A .      Other provisions of this Plan notwithstanding, deferrals under this Plan shall comply with the requirements under the Code, including without
limitation Code Section 409A, and Treasury Regulations (including any applicable guidance thereunder) as presently in effect or hereafter implemented: (i) If the timing of any payment under this Plan would result in a participant s
constructive receipt of income prior to such payment, the payment will be the earliest date after the specified payment date that distribution can be effected without resulting in such constructive receipt; (ii) the Company shall have no
authority to accelerate any payment hereunder except as permitted under Section 409A and regulations thereunder; and (iii) any rights of the participant or retained authority of the Company with respect to deferrals hereunder shall be
automatically modified and limited to the extent necessary so that a participant will not be deemed to be in constructive receipt of income relating to the deferrals prior to the payment to ensure that the participant shall not be subject to any
penalty under Code Section 409A. In the event that a participant has become  key employee  (as defined in Code Section 416(i) without regard to paragraph (5) thereof) and any of the Company s stock is publicly traded on
an established securities market or otherwise, a distribution under the Plan triggered by a separation from service (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(h)) and which would be within six months after such separation shall
instead occur at the expiration of the six-month period under Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i). In the case of installments, this delay shall not affect the timing of any installment otherwise payable after the six-month delay period.         
   E-10-3   

Exhibit A      Deferral Election Rules      If a participant in a plan, program or other
compensatory arrangement (a  plan ) of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company (the  Company ) is permitted to elect to defer awards or other compensation, any such election relating to compensation deferred under the applicable plan must
be received by the Company prior to the date specified by or at the direction of the administrator of such plan (the  Administrator ). For purposes of compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code (the  Code ),
any such election to defer shall be subject to the rules set forth below, subject to any additional restrictions as may be specified by the Administrator. Under no circumstances may a participant elect to defer compensation to which he or she has
attained, at the time of deferral, a legally enforceable right to current receipt of such compensation.       

(1)  
   Initial Deferral Elections . Any initial election to defer compensation (including the election as to the type and amount of compensation to be deferred and the
time and manner of settlement of the deferral) must be made (and shall be irrevocable) no later than December 31 of the year before the participant s services are performed which will result in the earning of the compensation, except as
follows:         

Initial deferral elections with respect to compensation that, absent the election, constitutes a short-term deferral may be made in accordance with
Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(a)(4) and (b);          

Initial deferral elections with respect to compensation that remains subject to a requirement that the participant provide services for at least 12
months (a  forfeitable right  under Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(a)(5)) may be made on or before the 30   th    day after the participant obtains the legally binding right to the compensation, provided that the election is made at
least 12 months before the earliest date at which the forfeiture condition could lapse and otherwise in compliance with Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(a)(5);          

Initial deferral elections by a participant in his or her first year of eligibility may be made within 30 days after the date the participant becomes
eligible to participate in the applicable plan, with respect to compensation paid for services to be performed after the election and in compliance with Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(a)((7);          

Initial deferral elections by a participant with respect to performance-based compensation (as defined under Treasury Regulation
  1.409A-1(e)) may be made on or before the date that is six months before the end of the performance period, provided that (i) the participant continuously served as a director from either the beginning of the performance period or
the later date on which the performance goal was established, (ii) the election to defer is made before such compensation has become readily ascertainable (i.e., substantially certain to be paid), (iii) the performance period is at least
12 months in length and the performance goal was established no later than 90 days after the commencement of the service period to which the performance goal relates, (iv) the performance-based compensation is not payable in the absence of
performance except due to death, disability, a 409A Ownership/Control Change (as defined in Section 11(k) of the 2007 Stock Award and Incentive Plan) or as otherwise permitted under Treasury Regulation   1.409A-1(e), and (v) this
initial deferral election must in any event comply with Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(a)(8);          

Initial deferral elections resulting in Company matching contributions may be made in compliance with Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(a)(9);
           
   i   

Initial deferral elections may be made to the fullest permitted under other applicable provisions of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(a); and

(2)  
   Further Deferral Elections . The foregoing notwithstanding, for any election to further defer an amount that is deemed to be a deferral of compensation subject to
Code Section 409A (to the extent permitted under Company plans, programs and arrangements), any further deferral election made under the plan shall be subject to the following, provided that deferral elections in 2007 and 2008 may be made under
applicable transition rules under Section 409A:         

The further deferral election will not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which the election is made;      

If the election relates to a distribution event other than a Disability (as defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(4)), death, or
Unforeseeable Emergency (as defined in Treasury Regulation   1.409A-3(i)(3)), the payment with respect to which such election is made must be deferred for a period of not less than five years from the date such payment would otherwise have
been paid (or in the case of a life annuity or installment payments treated as a single payment, five years from the date the first amount was scheduled to be paid), to the extent required under Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b);

The requirement that the further deferral election be made at least 12 months before the original deferral amount would be first payable may not be
waived by the Administrator, and shall apply to a payment at a specified time or pursuant to a fixed schedule (and in the case of a life annuity or installment payments treated as a single payment, 12 months before the date that the first amount was
scheduled to be paid);          

The further deferral election shall be irrevocable when filed with the Company; and          

The further deferral election otherwise shall comply with the applicable requirements of Treasury Regulation   1.409A-2(b).

(3)  
   Transition Rules . Initial deferral elections and elections to change any existing deferred date for distribution of compensation in any transition period
designated under Department of the Treasury and IRS regulations may be permitted by the Company to the fullest extent authorized under transition rules and other applicable guidance under Code Section 409A (including transition rules in effect
in the period 2005   2008).           
   ii   

</EX-10.TT>

<EX-12>
 5
 dex12.htm
 STATEMENT RE COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

Statement re Computation of Ratios 

EXHIBIT 12.        Computation of Earnings to Fixed Charges        Ratio of Earnings to
Fixed Charges:        

(1)  
  Rents included in the computation consist of one-third of rental expense which the Company believes to be a reasonable estimate of an interest factor in its leases.
          
   E-12-1   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

EXHIBIT 21.         Subsidiaries of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company        345 Park Corporation      77 Wilson St., Corp.      A.G. Medical Services, P.A.      Ability Biomedical (USA) Corp.
     Ability Biomedical Corporation      Adnexus, a Bristol-Myers Squibb R D Company      Allard Labs Acquisition G.P.
     Apothecon, Inc.      Bioenhance Medicines, Inc.      Blisa Acquisition G.P.      BMS Benelux Holdings B.V.      BMS Bermuda Holdings Ltd.      BMS Bermuda Nominees L.L.C.      BMS Data Acquisition Company LLC      BMS Forex Company
     B-MS GeneRx      BMS Holdings sarl      BMS Holdings Spain, S.L.      BMS International Insurance Company Limited      BMS Investco
SAS      BMS Korea Holdings L.L.C.      BMS Latin American Nominees L.L.C.      BMS Luxembourg Partners, L.L.C.      BMS Omega Bermuda Holdings Finance Ltd.      BMS Pharmaceutical Korea Limited      BMS Pharmaceuticals Germany Holdings B.V.
     BMS Pharmaceuticals International Holdings Netherlands B.V.      BMS Pharmaceuticals Korea Holdings B.V.      BMS Pharmaceuticals
Mexico Holdings B.V.      BMS Pharmaceuticals Netherlands Holdings B.V.      BMS Real Estate LLC      BMS Spain Investments, Inc.   
  BMS-Generiques SAS      BMSIC Pharma-Handels Verwaltungs GmbH      Boclaro Inc.      Bristol (Iran) S.A.      Bristol Iran Private Company Limited
     Bristol Laboratories Corporation      Bristol Laboratories Inc.      Bristol Laboratories International, S.A.      Bristol Laboratories Medical Information Systems Inc.      Bristol-Myers (Andes) L.L.C.      Bristol-Myers (Private) Limited      Bristol-Myers Company (2001) Limited      Bristol-Myers de Venezuela S.C.A.      Bristol-Myers K.K.      Bristol-Myers Middle East S.A.L.      Bristol-Myers Overseas Corporation      Bristol-Myers Squibb   Gilead
Sciences, LLC      Bristol-Myers Squibb (China) Investment Co., Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb (Israel) Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb
(NZ) Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb (Proprietary) Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb (Shanghai) Trading Co. Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb (Singapore) Pte. Limited         
   E-21-1   

Bristol-Myers Squibb (Taiwan) Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb (West Indies) Ltd.      Bristol-Myers
Squibb A.E.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Aktiebolag      Bristol-Myers Squibb and Gilead Sciences Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb Antilles
Holdings N.V.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Argentina S. R. L.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Auslandsbeteiligungs Holding GmbH      Bristol-Myers Squibb Australia Pty. Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb B.V.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Belgium S.A.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Biologics Company      Bristol-Myers Squibb Bulgaria EOOD
     Bristol-Myers Squibb Business Services Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb Canada Co.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Caribbean Company
     Bristol-Myers Squibb de Colombia S.A.      Bristol-Myers Squibb de Costa Rica Sociedad Anonima      Bristol-Myers Squibb de
Guatemala, S.A.      Bristol-Myers Squibb de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Delta Company Limited      Bristol-Myers
Squibb Delta Holdings, L.L.C.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Ecuador Cia. Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb EMEA      Bristol-Myers Squibb Europe
Strategic Sourcing      Bristol-Myers Squibb Export GmbH      Bristol-Myers Squibb Farmaceutica Portuguesa S.A.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Farmaceutica S.A.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Finance Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb Foreign Sales Corporation      Bristol-Myers Squibb Ges. m.b.H.      Bristol-Myers Squibb GmbH   Co. KGaA
     Bristol-Myers Squibb Holding Germany GmbH   Co. KG      Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings 2002 Limited      Bristol-Myers
Squibb Holdings Germany Verwaltungs Gmbh      Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings Ireland Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb Holdings Pharma Ltd. Liability Company      Bristol-Myers Squibb
Hungary Pharmaceutical Trading Kft      Bristol-Myers Squibb Ilaclari, Inc.      Bristol-Myers Squibb India Pvt. Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb
Inlandsbeteiligungs Holding GmbH      Bristol-Myers Squibb International Company      Bristol-Myers Squibb International Corporation      Bristol-Myers Squibb International Holdings Ireland Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb
International S.r.L.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Investco, L.L.C.      Bristol-Myers Squibb K.K.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Luxembourg
International S.C.A.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Luxembourg S.a.r.l.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Manufacturing Company      Bristol-Myers
Squibb Marketing Services S.R.L.      Bristol-Myers Squibb MEA GmbH      Bristol-Myers Squibb Norway Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb
Nutricionales de Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Peru S.A.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma (HK) Ltd      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma (Thailand) Co. Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma
Belgium SPRL      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Company       
  
   E-21-1   

Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma EEIG      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Holding Company, LLC      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharma Ventures Corporation      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceuticals      Bristol-Myers Squibb Pharmaceuticals Limited      Bristol-Myers Squibb Polska Sp. z o.o.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Products S.A.
     Bristol-Myers Squibb Puerto Rico, Inc.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Puerto Rico/Sanofi Pharmaceutical Partnership Puerto Rico      Bristol-Myers Squibb S.A. (Baar)      Bristol-Myers Squibb S.r.l.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Holding Partnership      Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi-Synthelabo Partnership      Bristol-Myers Squibb Sanofi-Synthelabo Puerto Rico      Bristol-Myers Squibb Sarl (France)      Bristol-Myers Squibb Service Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Services Sp. z o.o.
     Bristol-Myers Squibb Sp. z o.o.      Bristol-Myers Squibb spol. s r.o.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Superannuation Plan Pty.
Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb Trustees Ltd.      Bristol-Myers Squibb UPSA Tunisie      Bristol-Myers Squibb Verwaltungs GmbH
     Bristol-Myers Squibb, S.A.      Bristol-Myers Squibb/Astrazeneca EEIG      Bristol-Myers Squibb/Pfizer EEIG
     Bristol-Myers Squibb/Sanofi Pharmaceuticals Partnership      Britcair Limited      Compania Bristol-Myers Squibb de Centro
America      Convatec-Produtos Medicos, Limitada      E. R. Squibb   Sons Inter-American Corporation      E. R. Squibb  
Sons Limited      E. R. Squibb   Sons, L.L.C.      EWI Corporation      GenPharm International, Inc.      Grove Insurance Company Ltd.      Grove Products (Far East) Limited      Heyden Farmaceutica Portugesa Limitada
     Iris Acquisition Corp.      Kosan Biosciences Incorporated      Laboratorios Upsa, Sociedad Limitada   
  Lawrence Laboratories      Linson Investments Limited      Linson Pharma Co.      Little Sycamore Limited      Mead Johnson (Manufacturing)
Jamaica Limited      Mead Johnson International Limited (Canada)      Mead Johnson Jamaica Ltd.      Mead Johnson Limited   
  Mead Johnson Nutrition International Holdings Pte. Ltd.      Medarex (Canada) Inc.      Medarex Belgium, S.A.      Medarex, Inc.      Monarch Crown Corporation      O.o.o. Bristol-Myers Squibb      O.o.o. Bristol-Myers Squibb Manufacturing      Off Prescriptions
Medicines Limited      Oy Bristol-Myers Squibb (Finland) AB      Princeton Pharmaceutical Products, Inc.      Princeton
Pharmaceuticals, S.L.         
   E-21-1   

Princeton-Produtos Farmaceuticos, LDA      Route 22 Real Estate Holding Corporation      Sanofi Pharma Bristol-Myers Squibb SNC      Sino-American Shanghai Squibb
Pharmaceuticals Limited      SMC Holdings LLC      Societe Francaise de Complements Alimentaires(S.O.F.C.A.)      Sphinx Holdings
Company, Inc.      Squibb (Nigeria) Limited      Squibb Development Limited      Squibb Farmaceutica Portuguesa, Limitada   
  Squibb Manufacturing Company      Squibb Middle East S.A. (Panama)      Squibb Overseas Investments, Inc.      Squibb Properties, Inc.      Squibb Surgicare Limited      Swords Laboratories      Triple J Ingredients Pte. Ltd.      Tri-Supply Limited
     Unterstutzungskasse Bristol-Myers Squibb GmbH      UPSA CONSEIL      UPSA Generiques      Westwood-Intrafin, S.A.      Westwood-Squibb Holdings, Inc.      Westwood-Squibb Pharmaceuticals, Inc.         
   E-21-1   

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 dex23.htm
 CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP 

EXHIBIT 23.       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM      We consent to the
incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 33-33682, 33-62496, 333-114107, 333-117818 and 333-150471 on Form S-3, and Nos. 33-30856, 33-38411, 33-38587, 33-44788, 333-47403, 33-52691, 33-30756-02, 33-58187, 333-02873, 333-65424,
333-107414 and 333-144893 on Form S-8, of our reports dated February 19, 2010, relating to (1) the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and subsidiaries (the
 Company ) (which report expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company s adoption of the accounting standard related to Business Combinations, effective for business combinations entered
into after January 1, 2009) and (2) the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2009.       /s/ DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP       Parsippany, New Jersey      February 19, 2010         
   E-23-1   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.A>
 8
 dex31a.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION LETTER

Section 302 Certification Letter 

EXHIBIT 31a.        CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER        PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, James M. Cornelius, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company;      2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

a.  
  designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;         

b.  
  designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c.  
  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d.  
  disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
       5. The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):       

a.  
  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting that are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b.  
  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 19, 2010       

/ S / JAMES M. CORNELIUS   
 
  James M. Cornelius   
 
  Chief Executive Officer          
   E-31-1   

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 9
 dex31b.htm
 SECTION 302 CERTIFICATION LETTER

Section 302 Certification Letter 

EXHIBIT 31b.        CERTIFICATION BY THE CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER        PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 OF THE
SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       I, Charles Bancroft, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company;      2. Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this annual report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;      4. The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and
internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:       

a.  
  designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;         

b.  
  designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c.  
  evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the
disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d.  
  disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal
quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting;
       5. The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of
internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent function):       

a.  
  all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting that are reasonably likely to adversely
affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b.  
  any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting.        Date: February 19, 2010       

/ S / CHARLES BANCROFT   
 
  Charles Bancroft   
 
  Acting Chief Financial Officer          
   E-31-2   

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32.A>
 10
 dex32a.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION LETTER

Section 906 Certification Letter 

EXHIBIT 32a.        Certification by the Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, as        Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, I, James M. Cornelius, hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the Report), as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 19, 2010, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and that the information contained in
the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.       

/ S / JAMES M. CORNELIUS   
 
  James M. Cornelius   
 
  Chief Executive Officer   
 
  February 19, 2010          
   E-32-1   

</EX-32.A>

<EX-32.B>
 11
 dex32b.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION LETTER

Section 906 Certification Letter 

EXHIBIT 32b.        Certification by the Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, as        Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       Pursuant to 18 U. S. C. Section 1350, I, Charles Bancroft, hereby certify that, to the best of my knowledge, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 (the Report), as
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 19, 2010, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and that the information contained in
the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company.       

/ S / CHARLES BANCROFT   
 
  Charles Bancroft   
 
  Acting Chief Financial Officer   
 
  February 19, 2010          
   E-32-2   

</EX-32.B>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 bmy-20091231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 bmy-20091231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 bmy-20091231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 bmy-20091231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 bmy-20091231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 bmy-20091231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

