<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100301_10-K_edgar_data_886982_0000950123-10-018464_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>11074594</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1281862</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>304189</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2334349</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>2862848</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3344327</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>153</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>29</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-10-018464.hdr.sgml : 20100301
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100226182023
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-10-018464
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		34
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100301
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000886982
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				134019460
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14965
		FILM NUMBER:		10641319

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		85 BROAD ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10004
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2129021000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		85 BROAD ST
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10004

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20010104

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 F/VptgFh2wBkopR9Q6yeYTxKlyqLtpHPkio97hDx+tv1eq+ss8nt0z8rlBTWE042
 OXJ6VsrPzgHLGjLpFj7ypQ==

 0000950123-10-018464.txt : 20100301

10-K
 1
 y81914e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
    COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

FORM 10-K   

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
    SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE  

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
    1934  

The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

(212) 902-1000  

(Registrant s telephone
    number, including area code)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of each class: 

Name of each exchange on which registered: 

Common stock, par value $.01 per share 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a
    Share of Floating Rate
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series A 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a
    Share of 6.20%
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series B 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a
    Share of Floating Rate
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series C 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a
    Share of Floating Rate
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series D 

New York Stock Exchange 

5.793%
     Fixed-to-Floating 
    Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities of
    Goldman Sachs Capital II (and Registrant s guarantee with
    respect thereto) 

New York Stock Exchange 

Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital
    Securities of Goldman Sachs Capital III (and Registrant s
    guarantee with respect thereto) 

New York Stock Exchange 

Medium-Term 
    Notes, Series B, Index-Linked Notes due February 2013;
    Index-Linked Notes due April 2013; Index-Linked Notes due
    May 2013; Index-Linked Notes due 2010; and Index-Linked
    Notes due 2011 

NYSE Alternext US 

Medium-Term 
    Notes, Series B, Floating Rate Notes due 2011 

New York Stock Exchange 

Medium-Term 
    Notes, Series A, Index-Linked Notes due 2037 of GS Finance
    Corp. (and Registrant s guarantee with respect thereto) 

NYSE Arca 

Medium-Term 
    Notes, Series B, Index-Linked Notes due 2037 

NYSE Arca 

Medium-Term 
    Notes, Series D, 7.50% Notes due 2019 

New York Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate
    by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer,
    as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes          No     

Indicate
    by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
    pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.

Yes          No     

Indicate
    by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
    reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes          No     

Indicate
    by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
    that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).

Yes          No     

Indicate
    by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
    Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K.      

Indicate
    by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
    filer, an accelerated filer, a
     non-accelerated 
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large accelerated
    filer          Accelerated
    filer           Non-accelerated 
    filer (Do not check if a smaller reporting
    company)          Smaller
    reporting
    company     

Indicate
    by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
    defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act).
    Yes          No     

As of
    June 26, 2009, the aggregate market value of the
    common stock of the registrant held by
     non-affiliates 
    of the registrant was approximately $73.9 billion.

As of
    February 12, 2010, there were 526,251,090 shares
    of the registrant s common stock outstanding.

Documents
    incorporated by reference:   Portions of The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. s Proxy Statement for its 2010
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
    May 7, 2010 are incorporated by reference in the
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    in response to Part III, Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC.  

ANNUAL REPORT ON
     FORM 10-K 
    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2009 

INDEX 

Page 

Form 10-K Item
    Number:  

No.  

PART I  

1 

Item 1. 

Business 

1

Introduction 

1

Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the
    U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 

2

Segment Operating Results 

3

Where We Conduct Business 

4

Business Segments 

5

Global Investment Research 

13

Business Continuity and Information Security 

14

Employees 

14

Competition 

14

Regulation 

16

Item 1A. 

Risk Factors 

26

Item 1B. 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

38

Item 2. 

Properties 

39

Item 3. 

Legal Proceedings 

40

Item 4. 

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security
    Holders 

49

Executive Officers of The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc 

50

PART II  

52 

Item 5. 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

52

Item 6. 

Selected Financial Data 

53

Item 7. 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

54

Item 7A. 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

121

Item 8. 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

122

Item 9. 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

225

Item 9A. 

Controls and Procedures 

225

Item 9B. 

Other Information 

225

PART III  

226 

Item 10. 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

226

Item 11. 

Executive Compensation 

226

Item 12. 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

226

Item 13. 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

227

Item 14. 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

227

PART IV  

228 

Item 15. 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

228

SIGNATURES 

II-1

EX-10.6: AMENDED AND RESTATED SHAREHOLDERS' AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.30: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (NOT FULLY VESTED)    
     EX-10.31: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FULLY VESTED)    
     EX-10.32: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FRENCH ALTERNATIVE AWARD)    
     EX-10.34: FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.35: FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR RSU AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.36: DESCRIPTION OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION    
     EX-10.42: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS    
     EX-10.51: AMENDED GUARANTEE AGREEMENT BETWEEN GROUP INC. AND GS BANK    
     EX-10.53: FORM OF PERFORMANCE-BASED ONE-TIME RSU AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.54: FORM OF MAKE-WHOLE ONE-TIME RSU AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.55: FORM OF INCENTIVE ONE-TIME RSU AWARD AGREEMENT    
     EX-10.56: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS (EMPLOYEES IN ASIA EX CHINA)    
     EX-10.57: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS (EMPLOYEES IN CHINA)    
     EX-10.60: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (UK)    
     EX-10.61: FORM OF YEAR-END SUPPLEMENTAL RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (UK)    
     EX-10.62: FORM OF YEAR-END SUPPLEMENTAL RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (UK AND FRANCE)    
     EX-12.1: STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS    
     EX-21.1: LIST OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES    
     EX-23.1: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
     EX-31.1: RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS    
     EX-32.1: SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS    
     EX-99.1: REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM    
     EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.    

Business  

Introduction  

Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking, securities
    and investment management firm that provides a wide range of
    financial services to a substantial and diversified client base
    that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments
    and
     high-net-worth 
    individuals. On May 7, 1999, we converted from a
    partnership to a corporation and completed an initial public
    offering of our common stock. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
    (Group Inc.) is a bank holding company and a financial
    holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the
    Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board) under the
    U.S. Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act). Our
    depository institution subsidiary, Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS
    Bank USA), is a New York State-chartered bank.

Our activities are divided into three segments:
    (i) Investment Banking, (ii) Trading and Principal
    Investments and (iii) Asset Management and Securities
    Services.

All references to 2009, 2008 and 2007 refer to our fiscal years
    ended, or the dates, as the context requires,
    December 31, 2009, November 28, 2008 and
    November 30, 2007, respectively. When we use the terms
     Goldman Sachs,   the firm,   we, 
     us  and  our,  we mean Group Inc., a
    Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
    References herein to this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    are to our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.

In connection with becoming a bank holding company, the firm was
    required to change its fiscal year-end from November to
    December. This change in the firm s fiscal year-end
    resulted in a
     one-month 
    transition period that began on November 29, 2008 and
    ended on December 26, 2008. Financial information for
    this fiscal transition period is included in Part II,
    Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    In April 2009, the Board of Directors of Group Inc.
    approved a change in the firm s fiscal year-end from the
    last Friday of December to December 31. Fiscal 2009 began
    on December 27, 2008 and ended on
    December 31, 2009.

Financial information concerning our business segments and
    geographic regions for each of 2009, 2008 and 2007 is set forth
    in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations,  the consolidated
    financial statements and the notes thereto, and the supplemental
    financial information, which are in Part II, Items 7,
    7A and 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our internet address is  www.gs.com  and the investor
    relations section of our web site is located at
     www.gs.com/shareholders . We make available free of
    charge, on or through the investor relations section of our web
    site, annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    and current reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), as well as proxy statements, as soon
    as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the U.S. Securities and
    Exchange Commission. Also posted on our web site, and available
    in print upon request of any shareholder to our Investor
    Relations Department, are our certificate of incorporation and
    by-laws, charters for our Audit Committee, Compensation
    Committee, and Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee,
    our Policy Regarding Director Independence Determinations, our
    Policy on Reporting of Concerns Regarding Accounting and Other
    Matters, our Corporate Governance Guidelines and our Code of
    Business Conduct and Ethics governing our directors, officers
    and employees. Within the time period required by the SEC, we
    will post on our web site any amendment to the Code of Business
    Conduct and Ethics and any waiver applicable to any executive
    officer, director or senior financial officer (as defined in the
    Code). In addition, our web site includes information concerning
    purchases and sales of our equity securities by our executive
    officers and directors, as well as disclosure relating to
    certain
     non-GAAP 
    financial measures (as defined in the SEC s
    Regulation G) that we may make public orally,
    telephonically, by webcast, by broadcast or by similar means
    from time to time.

Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., 200 West Street, 19th Floor, New
    York, New York 10282, Attn: Investor Relations, telephone:
     212-902-0300, 
     e-mail: 
     gs-investor-relations@gs.com .

1

Table of Contents   

Cautionary
    Statement Pursuant to the U.S. Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995  

We have included or incorporated by reference in this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    and from time to time our management may make, statements that
    may constitute  forward-looking statements  within the
    meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
    statements are not historical facts but instead represent only
    our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their
    nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These
    statements include statements other than historical information
    or statements of current condition and may relate to our future
    plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may
    also include our belief regarding the effect of various legal
    proceedings, as set forth under  Legal Proceedings  in
    Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    as well as statements about the objectives and effectiveness of
    our risk management and liquidity policies, statements about
    trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses, statements
    about our future status, activities or reporting under
    U.S. or
     non-U.S. banking 
    and financial regulation, and statements about our investment
    banking transaction backlog. By identifying these statements for
    you in this manner, we are alerting you to the possibility that
    our actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly
    materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition
    indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors
    that could cause our actual results and financial condition to
    differ from those indicated in the forward-looking statements
    include, among others, those discussed below and under
     Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

In the case of statements about our investment banking
    transaction backlog, such statements are subject to the risk
    that the terms of these transactions may be modified or that
    they may not be completed at all; therefore, the net revenues,
    if any, that we actually earn from these transactions may
    differ, possibly materially, from those currently expected.
    Important factors that could result in a modification of the
    terms of a transaction or a transaction not being completed
    include, in the case of underwriting transactions, a decline or
    continued weakness in general economic conditions, outbreak of
    hostilities, volatility in the securities markets generally or
    an adverse development with respect to the issuer of the
    securities and, in the case of financial advisory transactions,
    a decline in the securities markets, an inability to obtain
    adequate financing, an adverse development with respect to a
    party to the transaction or a failure to obtain a required
    regulatory approval. For a discussion of other important factors
    that could adversely affect our investment banking transactions,
    see  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

2

Table of Contents   

Segment Operating
    Results 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Operating expenses include net
    provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings
    of $104 million, $(4) million and $37 million for
    the years ended December 2009, November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively, that have not been allocated
    to our segments.

3

Table of Contents   

Where We Conduct
    Business  

As of December 31, 2009, we operated offices in over
    30 countries and 42% of our 32,500 total staff were based
    outside the Americas (which includes the countries in North and
    South America). In 2009, we derived 44% of our net revenues
    outside of the Americas. See geographic information in
    Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our clients are located worldwide, and we are an active
    participant in financial markets around the world. We have
    developed and continue to build strong investment banking
    relationships in new and developing markets. We also continue to
    expand our presence throughout these markets to invest
    strategically when opportunities arise and to work more closely
    with our private wealth and asset management clients in these
    regions. Our global reach is illustrated by the following:

we are a member of and an active participant in most of the
    world s major stock, options and futures exchanges and
    marketplaces;

we are a primary dealer in many of the largest government bond
    markets around the world;

we have interbank dealer status in currency markets around the
    world;

we are a member of or have relationships with major commodities
    exchanges worldwide; and

we have commercial banking or deposit-taking institutions
    organized or operating in the United States, the United Kingdom,
    Ireland, Brazil, Switzerland, Germany, France, Russia and South
    Korea.

Our businesses are supported by our Global Investment Research
    division, which, as of December 2009, provided research
    coverage of more than 3,000 companies worldwide and over
    45 national economies, and maintained a presence in
    locations around the world.

4

Table of Contents   

Business
    Segments  

The primary products and activities of our business segments are
    set forth in the following chart:

Business
    Segment/ Component   

Primary Products and
    Activities  

Investment Banking: 

Financial Advisory  

Mergers and acquisitions advisory services

Financial restructuring advisory services

Underwriting  

Equity and debt underwriting

Trading and Principal Investments: 

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities  

Commodities and commodity derivatives,
    including power generation and related activities

Credit products, including trading and
    investing in credit derivatives, investment-grade corporate
    securities, high-yield securities, bank and secured loans,
    municipal securities, emerging market and distressed debt,
    public and private equity securities and real estate

Currencies and currency derivatives

Interest rate products, including interest
    rate derivatives, global government securities and money market
    instruments, including matched book positions

Mortgage-related securities and loan products
    and other asset-backed instruments

Equities  

Equity securities and derivatives

Equities and options exchange-based
    market-making activities

Securities, futures and options clearing
    services

Insurance activities

Principal Investments  

Principal investments in connection with
    merchant banking activities

Investment in the ordinary shares of
    Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited

Asset Management and Securities Services: 

Asset Management  

Investment advisory services, financial
    planning and investment products (primarily through separately
    managed accounts and commingled vehicles) across all major asset
    classes, including money markets, fixed income, equities and
    alternative investments (including hedge funds, private equity,
    real estate, currencies, commodities and asset allocation
    strategies), for institutional and individual investors
    (including
     high-net-worth 
    clients, as well as retail clients through third-party channels)

Management of merchant banking funds

Securities Services  

Prime brokerage

Financing services

Securities lending

5

Table of Contents   

Investment
    Banking  

Investment Banking represented 11% of 2009 net revenues. We
    provide a broad range of investment banking services to a
    diverse group of corporations, financial institutions,
    investment funds, governments and individuals and seek to
    develop and maintain
     long-term 
    relationships with these clients as their lead investment bank.

Our current structure, which is organized by regional, industry
    and product groups, seeks to combine client-focused investment
    bankers with execution and industry expertise. We continually
    assess and adapt our organization to meet the demands of our
    clients in each geographic region. Through our commitment to
    teamwork, we believe that we provide services in an integrated
    fashion for the benefit of our clients.

Our goal is to make available to our clients the entire
    resources of the firm in a seamless fashion, with investment
    banking serving as  front of the house.  To accomplish
    this objective, we focus on coordination among our equity and
    debt underwriting activities and our corporate risk and
    liability management activities. This coordination is intended
    to assist our investment banking clients in managing their asset
    and liability exposures and their capital.

Our Investment Banking segment is divided into two components:
    Financial Advisory and Underwriting.

Financial
    Advisory   

Financial Advisory includes advisory assignments with respect to
    mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense
    activities, restructurings and
     spin-offs. 
    Our mergers and acquisitions capabilities are evidenced by our
    significant share of assignments in large, complex transactions
    for which we provide multiple services, including
      one-stop  
    acquisition financing and cross-border structuring expertise, as
    well as services in other areas of the firm, such as interest
    rate and currency hedging. In particular, a significant number
    of the loan commitments and bank and bridge loan facilities that
    we enter into arise in connection with our advisory assignments.

Underwriting   

Underwriting includes public offerings and private placements of
    a wide range of securities and other financial instruments,
    including common and preferred stock, convertible and
    exchangeable securities,
     investment-grade 
    debt,
     high-yield 
    debt, sovereign and emerging market debt, municipal debt, bank
    loans,
     asset-backed 
    securities and real estate-related securities, such as
     mortgage-related 
    securities and the securities of real estate investment trusts.

Equity Underwriting.   Equity underwriting has
    been a
     long-term 
    core strength of Goldman Sachs. As with mergers and
    acquisitions, we have been particularly successful in winning
    mandates for large, complex transactions. We believe our
    leadership in worldwide initial public offerings and worldwide
    public common stock offerings reflects our expertise in complex
    transactions, prior experience and distribution capabilities.

Debt Underwriting.   We engage in the
    underwriting and origination of various types of debt
    instruments, including
     investment-grade 
    debt securities,
     high-yield 
    debt securities, bank and bridge loans and emerging market debt
    securities, which may be issued by, among others, corporate,
    sovereign and agency issuers. In addition, we underwrite and
    originate structured securities, which include
     mortgage-related 
    securities and other
     asset-backed 
    securities and collateralized debt obligations.

6

Table of Contents   

Trading and
    Principal Investments  

Trading and Principal Investments represented 76% of 2009 net
    revenues. Trading and Principal Investments facilitates client
    transactions with a diverse group of corporations, financial
    institutions, investment funds, governments and individuals
    through market making in, trading of and investing in fixed
    income and equity products, currencies, commodities and
    derivatives on these products. We also take proprietary
    positions on certain of these products. In addition, we engage
    in
     market-making 
    activities on equities and options exchanges, and we clear
    client transactions on major stock, options and futures
    exchanges worldwide. In connection with our merchant banking and
    other investing activities, we make principal investments
    directly and through funds that we raise and manage.

To meet the needs of our clients, Trading and Principal
    Investments is diversified across a wide range of products. We
    believe our willingness and ability to take risk to facilitate
    client transactions distinguishes us from many of our
    competitors and substantially enhances our client relationships.

Our Trading and Principal Investments segment is divided into
    three components: Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities;
    Equities; and Principal Investments.

Fixed Income,
    Currency and Commodities and Equities   

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities (FICC) and Equities are
    large and diversified operations through which we assist clients
    with their investing and trading strategies and also engage in
    proprietary trading and investing activities.

In our client-driven businesses, FICC and Equities strive to
    deliver
     high-quality 
    service by offering broad
     market-making 
    and market knowledge to our clients on a global basis. In
    addition, we use our expertise to take positions in markets, by
    committing capital and taking risk, to facilitate client
    transactions and to provide liquidity. Our willingness to make
    markets, commit capital and take risk in a broad range of fixed
    income, currency, commodity and equity products and their
    derivatives is crucial to our client relationships and to
    support our underwriting business by providing secondary market
    liquidity.

We generate trading net revenues from our client-driven
    businesses in three ways:

First, in large, highly liquid markets, we undertake a high
    volume of transactions for modest spreads and fees.

Second, by capitalizing on our strong relationships and capital
    position, we undertake transactions in less liquid markets where
    spreads and fees are generally larger.

Finally, we structure and execute transactions that address
    complex client needs.

Our FICC and Equities businesses operate in close coordination
    to provide clients with services and cross-market knowledge and
    expertise.

In our proprietary activities in both FICC and Equities, we
    assume a variety of risks and devote resources to identify,
    analyze and benefit from these exposures. We capitalize on our
    analytical models to analyze information and make informed
    trading judgments, and we seek to benefit from perceived
    disparities in the value of assets in the trading markets and
    from macroeconomic and issuer-specific trends.

FICC   

We make markets in and trade interest rate and credit products,
     mortgage-related 
    securities and loan products and other
     asset-backed 
    instruments, currencies and commodities, structure and enter
    into a wide variety of derivative transactions, and engage in
    proprietary trading and investing. FICC has five principal
    businesses: commodities; credit products; currencies; interest
    rate products, including money market instruments; and
     mortgage-related 
    securities and loan products and other
     asset-backed 
    instruments.

7

Table of Contents   

Commodities.   We make markets in and trade a
    wide variety of commodities, commodity derivatives and interests
    in commodity-related assets, including oil and oil products,
    metals, natural gas and electricity, coal and agricultural
    products. As part of our commodities business, we acquire and
    dispose of interests in, and engage in the development and
    operation of, electric power generation facilities and related
    activities.

Credit Products.   We make markets in and trade
    a broad array of credit and
     credit-linked 
    products all over the world, including credit derivatives,
     investment-grade 
    corporate securities,
     high-yield 
    securities, bank and secured loans (origination and trading),
    municipal securities, and emerging market and distressed debt.
    For example, we enter, as principal, into complex structured
    transactions designed to meet client needs.

In addition, we provide credit through bridge and other loan
    facilities to a broad range of clients. Commitments that are
    extended for contingent acquisition financing are often intended
    to be
     short-term 
    in nature, as borrowers often seek to replace them with other
    funding sources. As part of our ongoing credit origination
    activities, we may seek to reduce our credit risk on commitments
    by syndicating all or substantial portions of commitments to
    other investors or, upon funding, by securitizing the positions
    through investment vehicles sold to other investors.
    Underwriting fees from syndications of these commitments are
    recorded in debt underwriting in our Investment Banking segment.
    However, to the extent that we recognize losses on these
    commitments, such losses are recorded within our Trading and
    Principal Investments segment, net of any related underwriting
    fees. See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements
    in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for additional information on our commitments.

Our credit products business includes making significant
     long-term 
    and
     short-term 
    investments for our own account (sometimes investing together
    with our merchant banking funds) in a broad array of asset
    classes (including distressed debt) globally. We
    opportunistically invest in debt and equity securities and
    secured loans, and in private equity, real estate and other
    assets.

Currencies.   We act as a dealer in foreign
    exchange and trade in most currencies on exchanges and in cash
    and derivative markets globally.

Interest Rate Products.   We make markets in and
    trade a variety of interest rate products, including interest
    rate swaps, options and other derivatives, and government bonds,
    as well as money market instruments, such as commercial paper,
    treasury bills, repurchase agreements and other highly liquid
    securities and instruments. This business includes our matched
    book, which consists of
     short-term 
    collateralized financing transactions.

Mortgage Business.   We make markets in and
    trade commercial and residential
     mortgage-related 
    securities and loan products and other
     asset-backed 
    and derivative instruments. We acquire positions in these
    products for trading purposes as well as for securitization or
    syndication. We also originate and service commercial and
    residential mortgages.

Equities   

We make markets in and trade equities and
     equity-related 
    products, structure and enter into equity derivative
    transactions, and engage in proprietary trading. We generate
    commissions from executing and clearing client transactions on
    major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide through our
    Equities client franchise and clearing activities.

Equities includes two principal businesses: our client franchise
    business and principal strategies. We also engage in
    exchange-based
     market-making 
    activities and in insurance activities.

8

Table of Contents   

Client Franchise Business.   Our client
    franchise business includes primarily client-driven activities
    in the shares, equity derivatives and convertible securities
    markets. These activities also include clearing client
    transactions on major stock, options and futures exchanges
    worldwide, as well as our exchange-based options
     market-making 
    business. Our client franchise business increasingly involves
    providing our clients with access to electronic
      low-touch  
    equity trading platforms, and electronic trades account for the
    majority of our client trading activity in this business.
    However, a majority of our net revenues in this business
    continues to be derived from our traditional
      high-touch  
    handling of more complex trades. We expect both types of trading
    activities to remain important components of our client
    franchise business.

We trade equity securities and
     equity-related 
    products, including convertible securities, options, futures and
     over-the-counter 
    (OTC) derivative instruments, on a global basis as an agent, as
    a market maker or otherwise as a principal. As a principal, we
    facilitate client transactions, often by committing capital and
    taking risk, to provide liquidity to clients with large blocks
    of stocks or options. For example, we are active in the
    execution of large block trades. We also execute transactions as
    agent and offer clients direct electronic access to trading
    markets.

Our derivatives business structures and executes derivatives on
    indices, industry groups, financial measures and individual
    company stocks. We develop strategies and provide information
    with respect to portfolio hedging and restructuring and asset
    allocation transactions. We also work with our clients to create
    specially tailored instruments to enable sophisticated investors
    to undertake hedging strategies and to establish or liquidate
    investment positions. We are one of the leading participants in
    the trading and development of equity derivative instruments. In
    listed options, we are registered as a primary or lead market
    maker or otherwise make markets on the International Securities
    Exchange, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, NYSE Arca, the
    Boston Options Exchange, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and
    NYSE Alternext US. In futures and options on futures, we are
    market makers on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago
    Board of Trade.

Principal Strategies.   Our principal strategies
    business is a multi-strategy investment business that invests
    and trades our capital across global public markets. Investment
    strategies include fundamental equities and relative value
    trading (which involves trading strategies designed to take
    advantage of perceived discrepancies in the relative value of
    financial instruments, including equity,
     equity-related 
    and debt instruments), event-driven investments (which focus on
    event-oriented special situations such as corporate
    restructurings, bankruptcies, recapitalizations, mergers and
    acquisitions, and legal and regulatory events), convertible bond
    trading and various types of volatility trading.

Exchange-Based
     Market-Making 
    Activities.   Our exchange-based
     market-making 
    business consists of our stock and
     exchange-traded 
    funds (ETF)
     market-making 
    activities. In the United States, we are one of the leading
    Designated Market Makers for stocks traded on the NYSE. For
    ETFs, we are registered market makers on NYSE Arca.

Insurance Activities.   We engage in a range of
    insurance and reinsurance businesses, including buying,
    originating
     and/or 
    reinsuring fixed and variable annuity and life insurance
    contracts, reinsuring property catastrophe and residential
    homeowner risks and providing power interruption coverage to
    power generating facilities.

Principal
    Investments   

Principal Investments primarily includes net revenues from three
    sources: returns on corporate and real estate investments;
    overrides on corporate and real estate investments made by
    merchant banking funds that we manage; and our investment in the
    ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
    Limited (ICBC).

9

Table of Contents   

Returns on Corporate and Real Estate
    Investments.   As of December 2009, the
    aggregate carrying value of our principal investments held
    directly or through our merchant banking funds, excluding our
    investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC and our investment in
    the convertible preferred stock of Sumitomo Mitsui Financial
    Group, Inc. (SMFG), was $13.98 billion, comprised of
    corporate principal investments with an aggregate carrying value
    of $12.60 billion and real estate investments with an
    aggregate carrying value of $1.38 billion. In addition, as
    of December 2009, we had outstanding unfunded equity
    capital commitments of up to $12.27 billion, comprised of
    corporate principal investment commitments of $9.82 billion
    and real estate investment commitments of $2.45 billion.

Overrides.   Consists of the increased share of
    the income and gains derived from our merchant banking funds
    when the return on a fund s investments over the life of
    the fund exceeds certain threshold returns (typically referred
    to as an override). Overrides are recognized in net revenues
    when all material contingencies have been resolved.

ICBC.   Our investment in the ordinary shares of
    ICBC is valued using the quoted market price adjusted for
    transfer restrictions. Under the original transfer restrictions,
    the ICBC shares we held would have become free from transfer
    restrictions in equal installments on April 28, 2009
    and October 20, 2009. During the quarter ended
    March 2009, the shares became subject to new supplemental
    transfer restrictions. Under these new supplemental transfer
    restrictions, on April 28, 2009, 20% of the ICBC
    shares that we held became free from transfer restrictions and
    we completed the disposition of these shares during the second
    quarter of 2009. Our remaining ICBC shares are subject to
    transfer restrictions, which prohibit liquidation at any time
    prior to April 28, 2010. As of December 2009, the
    fair value of our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC was
    $8.11 billion, of which $5.13 billion is held by
    investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs. For further
    information regarding our investment in the ordinary shares of
    ICBC, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Critical Accounting Policies   Fair Value  
    Cash Instruments  in Part II, Item 7 of this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Asset Management
    and Securities Services  

Asset Management and Securities Services represented 13% of 2009
    net revenues. Our asset management business provides investment
    and wealth advisory services and offers investment products
    (primarily through separately managed accounts and commingled
    vehicles) across all major asset classes to a diverse group of
    institutions and individuals worldwide. Asset Management
    primarily generates revenues in the form of management and
    incentive fees. Securities Services provides prime brokerage
    services, financing services and securities lending services to
    institutional clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds,
    pension funds and foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide, and generates revenues primarily in the
    form of interest rate spreads or fees.

Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment is divided
    into two components: Asset Management and Securities Services.

Asset
    Management   

Asset Management primarily consists of two related
    businesses   Goldman Sachs Asset Management (GSAM) and
    Private Wealth Management (PWM)   through which we
    offer a broad array of investment strategies and wealth advisory
    services to a diverse group of clients worldwide. In addition,
    Asset Management includes management fees related to our
    merchant banking activities.

GSAM.   GSAM provides asset management services
    and offers investment products (primarily through separately
    managed accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds
    and private investment funds) across all major asset classes:
    money markets, fixed income, equities and alternative
    investments (including hedge funds, private equity, real estate,
    currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies). GSAM
    distributes investment products directly to the firm s
    institutional clients, including pension funds, governmental
    organizations, corporations, insurance

10

Table of Contents   

companies, banks, foundations and endowments, and indirectly to
    institutional and individual clients through
     third-party 
    distribution channels, including brokerage firms, banks,
    insurance companies and other financial intermediaries. In
    addition, our Global Portfolio Solutions team offers clients
    investment and advisory services extending to risk management,
    portfolio implementation, reporting and monitoring.

PWM.   PWM provides investment and wealth
    advisory services globally to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals, family offices and selected institutions
    (principally foundations and endowments).

Management of Merchant Banking Funds.   Goldman
    Sachs sponsors numerous corporate and real estate private
    investment funds. As of December 2009, the amount of Assets
    under management (AUM) in these funds (including both funded
    amounts and unfunded commitments on which we earn fees) was
    $93 billion.

Our strategy with respect to these funds generally is to invest
    opportunistically to build a portfolio of investments that is
    diversified by industry, product type, geographic region, and
    transaction structure and type. Our corporate investment funds
    pursue, on a global basis,
     long-term 
    investments in equity and debt securities in privately
    negotiated transactions, leveraged buyouts, acquisitions and
    investments in funds managed by external parties. Our real
    estate investment funds invest in real estate operating
    companies, debt and equity interests in real estate assets, and
    other real estate-related investments. In addition, our merchant
    banking funds include funds that invest in infrastructure and
    infrastructure-related assets and companies on a global basis.

Merchant banking activities generate three primary revenue
    streams. First, we receive a management fee that is generally a
    percentage of a fund s committed capital, invested capital,
    total gross acquisition cost or asset value. These annual
    management fees are included in our Asset Management net
    revenues. Second, Goldman Sachs, as a substantial investor in
    some of these funds, is allocated its proportionate share of the
    funds  unrealized appreciation or depreciation arising from
    changes in fair value as well as gains and losses upon
    realization. Third, after a fund has achieved a minimum return
    for fund investors, we receive an increased share of the
    fund s income and gains that is a percentage of the income
    and gains from the fund s investments. The second and third
    of these revenue streams are included in Principal Investments
    within our Trading and Principal Investments segment.

Assets under management.   AUM typically
    generates fees as a percentage of asset value, which is affected
    by investment performance and by inflows and redemptions. The
    fees that we charge vary by asset class, as do our related
    expenses. In certain circumstances, we are also entitled to
    receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a fund s
    return or when the return on assets under management exceeds
    specified benchmark returns or other performance targets.
    Incentive fees are recognized when the performance period ends
    (in most cases, on December 31) and they are no longer
    subject to adjustment.

AUM includes assets in our mutual funds, alternative investment
    funds and separately managed accounts for institutional and
    individual investors. Alternative investments include our
    merchant banking funds, which generate revenues as described
    above under
        Management 
    of Merchant Banking Funds.  AUM includes assets in
    clients  brokerage accounts to the extent that they
    generate fees based on the assets in the accounts rather than
    commissions on transactional activity in the accounts.

AUM does not include assets in brokerage accounts that generate
    commissions,
     mark-ups  and
    spreads based on transactional activity, or our own investments
    in funds that we manage. Net revenues from these assets are
    included in our Trading and Principal Investments segment. AUM
    also does not include
     non-fee-paying 
    assets, including interest-bearing deposits held through our
    bank depository institution subsidiaries.

11

Table of Contents   

The amount of AUM is set forth in the graph below. In the
    following graph, as well as in the following tables,
    substantially all assets under management are valued as of
    December 31 (in the case of 2009) and November 30 (in the
    case of earlier years):

Assets Under
    Management 
       (in
    billions)

The following table sets forth AUM by asset class:

Assets Under
    Management by Asset Class 
       (in
    billions)

(1)   

Primarily includes hedge funds,
    private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset
    allocation strategies.

12

Table of Contents   

The table below sets forth the amount of AUM by distribution
    channel and client category:

Assets Under
    Management by Distribution Channel 
       (in
    billions)

Securities
    Services   

Securities Services provides prime brokerage services, financing
    services and securities lending services to institutional
    clients, including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and
    foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide.

Prime brokerage services.   We offer prime
    brokerage services to our clients, allowing them the flexibility
    to trade with most brokers while maintaining a single source for
    financing and consolidated portfolio reports. Our prime
    brokerage business provides clearing and custody in
    53 markets globally and provides consolidated
    multi-currency accounting and reporting, fund administration and
    other ancillary services.

Financing services.   A central element of our
    prime brokerage business involves providing financing to our
    clients for their securities trading activities through margin
    and securities loans that are collateralized by securities, cash
    or other acceptable collateral.

Securities lending services.   Securities
    lending services principally involve the borrowing and lending
    of securities to cover clients  and Goldman Sachs 
    short sales and otherwise to make deliveries into the market. In
    addition, we are an active participant in the
     broker-to-broker 
    securities lending business and the
     third-party 
    agency lending business. As a general matter, net revenues in
    securities lending services in our second quarter are higher due
    to seasonally higher activity levels in Europe.

Global Investment
    Research  

Global Investment Research provides fundamental research on
    companies, industries, economies, currencies and commodities and
    macro strategy research on a worldwide basis.

Global Investment Research employs a team approach that as of
    December 2009 provided research coverage of more than 3,000
    companies worldwide and over 45 national economies. This is
    accomplished by the following departments:

The Equity Research Departments provide fundamental analysis,
    earnings forecasts and investment opinions for equity securities;

The Credit Research Department provides fundamental analysis,
    forecasts and investment opinions as to
     investment-grade 
    and
     high-yield 
    corporate bonds and credit derivatives; and

13

Table of Contents   

The Global ECS Department formulates macroeconomic forecasts for
    economic activity, foreign exchange and interest rates, provides
    research on the commodity markets, and provides equity market
    forecasts, opinions on both asset and industry sector
    allocation, equity trading strategies, credit trading strategies
    and options research.

Further information regarding research at Goldman Sachs is
    provided below under    Regulation  
    Regulations Applicable in and Outside the United States 
    and  Legal Proceedings   Research Independence
    Matters  in Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K. 

Business
    Continuity and Information Security  

Business continuity and information security are high priorities
    for Goldman Sachs. Our Business Continuity Program has been
    developed to provide reasonable assurance of business continuity
    in the event of disruptions at the firm s critical
    facilities and to comply with the regulatory requirements of the
    Financial Industry Regulatory Authority. Because we are a bank
    holding company, our Business Continuity Program is also subject
    to review by the Federal Reserve Board. The key elements of the
    program are crisis management, people recovery facilities,
    business recovery, systems and data recovery, and process
    improvement. In the area of information security, we have
    developed and implemented a framework of principles, policies
    and technology to protect the information assets of the firm and
    our clients. Safeguards are applied to maintain the
    confidentiality, integrity and availability of information
    resources.

Employees  

Management believes that a major strength and principal reason
    for the success of Goldman Sachs is the quality and dedication
    of our people and the shared sense of being part of a team. We
    strive to maintain a work environment that fosters
    professionalism, excellence, diversity, cooperation among our
    employees worldwide and high standards of business ethics.

Instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all employees is a
    continuous process, in which training plays an important part.
    All employees are offered the opportunity to participate in
    education and periodic seminars that we sponsor at various
    locations throughout the world. Another important part of
    instilling the Goldman Sachs culture is our employee review
    process. Employees are reviewed by supervisors, co-workers and
    employees they supervise in a
     360-degree 
    review process that is integral to our team approach.

As of December 2009, we had 32,500 total staff, excluding
    staff at consolidated entities held for investment purposes. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Results of
    Operations   Operating Expenses  in Part II,
    Item 7 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for additional information on our consolidated entities held for
    investment purposes.

Competition  

The financial services industry   and all of our
    businesses   are intensely competitive, and we expect
    them to remain so. Our competitors are other entities that
    provide investment banking, securities and investment management
    services, as well as those entities that make investments in
    securities, commodities, derivatives, real estate, loans and
    other financial assets. These entities include brokers and
    dealers, investment banking firms, commercial banks, insurance
    companies, investment advisers, mutual funds, hedge funds,
    private equity funds and merchant banks. We compete with some of
    our competitors globally and with others on a regional, product
    or niche basis. Our competition is based on a number of factors,
    including transaction execution, our products and services,
    innovation, reputation and price.

14

Table of Contents   

We also face intense competition in attracting and retaining
    qualified employees. Our ability to continue to compete
    effectively in our businesses will depend upon our ability to
    attract new employees and retain and motivate our existing
    employees and to continue to compensate employees competitively
    amid intense public and regulatory scrutiny on the compensation
    practices of large financial institutions. Our pay practices and
    those of our principal competitors are subject to review by, and
    the standards of, the Federal Reserve Board and regulators
    outside the United States, including the Financial Services
    Authority (FSA) in the United Kingdom. See
     Regulation   Banking Regulation  
    Compensation Practices  below and  Risk
    Factors   Our businesses may be adversely affected if
    we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees  in
    Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for more information on the regulation of our compensation
    practices.

Over time, there has been substantial consolidation and
    convergence among companies in the financial services industry.
    This trend accelerated in recent years as the credit crisis
    caused numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry
    participants. Many commercial banks and other
     broad-based 
    financial services firms have had the ability for some time to
    offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and
    insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking
    services, which may enhance their competitive position. They
    also have had the ability to support investment banking and
    securities products with commercial banking, insurance and other
    financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share,
    which has resulted in pricing pressure in our investment banking
    and trading businesses and could result in pricing pressure in
    other of our businesses.

Moreover, we have faced, and expect to continue to face,
    pressure to retain market share by committing capital to
    businesses or transactions on terms that offer returns that may
    not be commensurate with their risks. In particular, corporate
    clients seek such commitments (such as agreements to participate
    in their commercial paper backstop or other loan facilities)
    from financial services firms in connection with investment
    banking and other assignments.

We provide these commitments primarily through GS Bank USA and
    its subsidiaries (including the William Street entities) and
    through Goldman Sachs Lending Partners LLC. With respect to most
    of these commitments, SMFG provides us with credit loss
    protection that is generally limited to 95% of the first loss we
    realize on approved loan commitments, up to a maximum of
    approximately $950 million. In addition, subject to the
    satisfaction of certain conditions, upon our request, SMFG will
    provide protection for 70% of additional losses on such
    commitments, up to a maximum of $1.13 billion, of which
    $375 million of protection has been provided as of
    December 2009. We also use other financial instruments to
    mitigate credit risks related to certain of these commitments
    that are not covered by SMFG. See Note 8 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for more information regarding the William Street entities and
    for a description of the credit loss protection provided by
    SMFG. An increasing number of our commitments in connection with
    investment banking and other assignments are made through GS
    Bank USA and its subsidiaries (other than the William Street
    entities) or our other subsidiaries. In addition, an increasing
    number of these commitments do not benefit from the SMFG loss
    protection.

The trend toward consolidation and convergence has significantly
    increased the capital base and geographic reach of some of our
    competitors. This trend has also hastened the globalization of
    the securities and other financial services markets. As a
    result, we have had to commit capital to support our
    international operations and to execute large global
    transactions. To take advantage of some of our most significant
    challenges and opportunities, we will have to compete
    successfully with financial institutions that are larger and
    better capitalized and that may have a stronger local presence
    and longer operating history outside the United States.

We have experienced intense price competition in some of our
    businesses in recent years. For example, over the past several
    years the increasing volume of trades executed electronically,
    through the internet and through alternative trading systems,
    has increased the pressure on trading commissions, in that
    commissions for
      low-touch  
    electronic trading are generally lower than for

15

Table of Contents   

high-touch  
     non-electronic 
    trading. It appears that this trend toward electronic and other
      low-touch,  
     low-commission 
    trading will continue. In addition, we believe that we will
    continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other
    areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain
    market share by further reducing prices.

Regulation  

Goldman Sachs, as a participant in the banking, securities,
    commodity futures and options and insurance industries, is
    subject to extensive regulation in the United States and the
    other countries in which we operate. See  Risk
    Factors   Our businesses and those of our clients are
    subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around the
    world  in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K 
    for a further discussion of the effect that regulation may have
    on our businesses. As a matter of public policy, regulatory
    bodies around the world are charged with safeguarding the
    integrity of the securities and other financial markets and with
    protecting the interests of clients participating in those
    markets, including depositors in U.S. depository
    institutions such as GS Bank USA. They are not, however,
    generally charged with protecting the interests of Goldman
    Sachs  shareholders or creditors.

Recent market disruptions have led to numerous proposals in the
    United States and internationally for potentially significant
    changes in the regulation of the financial services industry.
    See  Risk Factors   Our business and those of our
    clients are subject to extensive and pervasive regulation around
    the world  in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a further discussion of some of these proposals and their
    potential impact on us.

Banking
    Regulation  

On September 21, 2008, Group Inc. became a bank
    holding company under the BHC Act. As of that date, the Federal
    Reserve Board became the primary U.S. regulator of
    Group Inc., as a consolidated entity. As of
    August 14, 2009, Group Inc. elected to become a
    financial holding company under the
     U.S. Gramm-Leach-Bliley 
    Act of 1999 (GLB Act), as described below.

Supervision
    and Regulation   

As a bank holding company and a financial holding company under
    the BHC Act, Group Inc. is subject to supervision and
    examination by the Federal Reserve Board. Under the system of
     functional regulation  established under the BHC Act,
    the Federal Reserve Board supervises Group Inc., including
    all of its nonbank subsidiaries, as an  umbrella
    regulator  of the consolidated organization and generally
    defers to the primary U.S. regulators of
    Group Inc. s U.S. depository institution
    subsidiary, as applicable, and to the other U.S. regulators
    of Group Inc. s
     U.S. non-depository 
    institution subsidiaries that regulate certain activities of
    those subsidiaries. Such  functionally regulated 
     non-depository 
    institution subsidiaries include
     broker-dealers 
    registered with the SEC, such as our principal
     U.S. broker-dealer, 
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. (GS Co.), insurance
    companies regulated by state insurance authorities, investment
    advisors registered with the SEC with respect to their
    investment advisory activities and entities regulated by the
    U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) with
    respect to certain futures-related activities.

Activities   

The BHC Act generally restricts bank holding companies from
    engaging in business activities other than the business of
    banking and certain closely related activities. As a financial
    holding company under the GLB Act, we may engage in a broader
    range of financial and related activities than are permissible
    for bank holding companies as long as we continue to meet the
    eligibility requirements for financial holding companies. These
    activities include underwriting, dealing and making markets in
    securities, insurance underwriting and making merchant banking
    investments in nonfinancial companies. In addition, we are
    permitted under the GLB Act to continue to engage in

16

Table of Contents   

certain commodities activities in the United States that were
    impermissible for bank holding companies as of
    September 30, 1997, if the assets held pursuant to
    these activities do not equal 5% or more of our consolidated
    assets. Our ability to maintain financial holding company status
    is dependent on a number of factors, including our
    U.S. depository institution subsidiaries continuing to
    qualify as  well capitalized  and
     well-managed  as described under
        Prompt 
    Corrective Action  below.

Although we do not believe that any activities that are material
    to our current or currently proposed business are impermissible
    activities for us as a financial holding company, the BHC Act
    also grants a new bank holding company, such as Group Inc.,
    two years from the date the entity becomes a bank holding
    company to comply with the restrictions on its activities
    imposed by the BHC Act with respect to any activities in which
    it was engaged when it became a bank holding company. In
    addition, under the BHC Act, we can apply to the Federal Reserve
    Board for up to three
     one-year 
    extensions.

As a bank holding company, Group Inc. is required to obtain
    prior Federal Reserve Board approval before directly or
    indirectly acquiring more than 5% of any class of voting shares
    of any unaffiliated depository institution. In addition, as a
    bank holding company, we may generally engage in banking and
    other financial activities abroad, including investing in and
    owning
     non-U.S. banks, 
    if those activities and investments do not exceed certain limits
    and, in some cases, if we have obtained the prior approval of
    the Federal Reserve Board.

Capital
    Requirements   

We are subject to regulatory capital requirements administered
    by the U.S. federal banking agencies. Our bank depository
    institution subsidiaries, including GS Bank USA, are subject to
    similar capital requirements. Under the Federal Reserve
    Board s capital adequacy requirements and the regulatory
    framework for prompt corrective action (PCA) that is applicable
    to GS Bank USA, Goldman Sachs and its bank depository
    institution subsidiaries must meet specific capital requirements
    that involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and
    certain
     off-balance-sheet 
    items as calculated under regulatory reporting practices.
    Goldman Sachs and its bank depository institution
    subsidiaries  capital amounts, as well as GS Bank
    USA s PCA classification, are also subject to qualitative
    judgments by the regulators about components, risk weightings
    and other factors.

We report capital ratios computed in accordance with the
    regulatory capital requirements currently applicable to bank
    holding companies, which are based on the Capital Accord of the
    Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel I). These ratios
    are used by the Federal Reserve Board and other
    U.S. federal banking agencies in the supervisory review
    process, including the assessment of the firm s capital
    adequacy.

Our Tier 1 capital consists of common shareholders 
    equity, qualifying preferred stock and our junior subordinated
    debt issued to trusts, less deductions for goodwill, disallowed
    intangible assets and other items. Our total capital consists of
    our Tier 1 capital and our qualifying subordinated debt,
    less certain deductions. Our total capital ratio is equal to
    total capital as a percentage of
     Risk-Weighted 
    Assets (RWAs), which are calculated in accordance with the
    Federal Reserve Board s
     risk-based 
    capital requirements, and our Tier 1 capital ratio is equal
    to Tier 1 capital as a percentage of RWAs. The calculation
    of RWAs is based on the amount of the firm s market risk
    and credit risk. Certain measures included in the calculation of
    the firm s RWAs for market risk are under review by the
    Federal Reserve Board. Additional information on the calculation
    of our Tier 1 capital, total capital and RWAs is set forth
    in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Equity
    Capital   Consolidated Capital Requirements,  and
    in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, which
    are in Part II, Items 7 and 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

As of December 2009, our total capital ratio was 18.2%, and
    our Tier 1 capital ratio was 15.0%.

17

Table of Contents   

We are currently working to implement the requirements set out
    in the Revised Framework for the International Convergence of
    Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued by the Basel
    Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel II) as applicable
    to us as a bank holding company. U.S. banking regulators
    have incorporated the Basel II framework into the existing
     risk-based 
    capital requirements by requiring that internationally active
    banking organizations, such as Group Inc., transition to
    Basel II over several years. During a parallel period, we
    anticipate that Group Inc. s capital calculations
    computed under both the Basel I rules and the Basel II rules
    will be reported to the Federal Reserve Board for examination
    and compliance for at least four consecutive quarterly periods.
    Once the parallel period and subsequent three-year transition
    period are successfully completed, Group Inc. will utilize
    the Basel II framework as its means of capital adequacy
    assessment, measurement and reporting and will discontinue use
    of Basel I. The Basel II framework was implemented in several
    countries during the second half of 2007 and in 2008, while
    others began implementation in 2009. The Basel II rules
    therefore already apply to certain of our operations in
     non-U.S. jurisdictions. 

The Federal Reserve Board also has established minimum leverage
    ratio requirements. The Tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as
    Tier 1 capital under Basel I divided by adjusted average
    total assets (which includes adjustments for disallowed goodwill
    and certain intangible assets). The minimum Tier 1 leverage
    ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that have received the
    highest supervisory rating under Federal Reserve Board
    guidelines or that have implemented the Federal Reserve
    Board s
     risk-based 
    capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies
    must have a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%. Bank
    holding companies may be expected to maintain ratios well above
    the minimum levels, depending upon their particular condition,
    risk profile and growth plans. As of December 2009, our
    Tier 1 leverage ratio under Basel I was 7.6%.

Payment of
    Dividends   

Federal and state law imposes limitations on the payment of
    dividends by our bank depository institution subsidiaries. The
    amount of dividends that may be paid by a state-chartered bank
    that is a member of the Federal Reserve System, such as GS Bank
    USA or our national bank trust company subsidiary, is limited to
    the lesser of the amounts calculated under a  recent
    earnings  test and an  undivided profits  test.
    Under the recent earnings test, a dividend may not be paid if
    the total of all dividends declared by a bank in any calendar
    year is in excess of the current year s net income combined
    with the retained net income of the two preceding years, unless
    the bank obtains the approval of its chartering authority. Under
    the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be paid in excess
    of a bank s  undivided profits.  New York law
    imposes similar limitations on New York State-chartered banks.
    As of December 2009, GS Bank USA could have declared
    dividends of $3.30 billion to Group Inc. in accordance
    with these limitations. In addition to the dividend restrictions
    described above, the banking regulators have authority to
    prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking
    organizations they supervise if, in the banking regulator s
    opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or
    unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the
    banking organization.

It is also the policy of the Federal Reserve Board that a bank
    holding company generally only pay dividends on common stock out
    of net income available to common shareholders over the past
    year and only if the prospective rate of earnings retention
    appears consistent with the bank holding company s capital
    needs, asset quality, and overall financial condition. In the
    current financial and economic environment, the Federal Reserve
    Board has indicated that bank holding companies should carefully
    review their dividend policy and has discouraged dividend
    pay-out ratios that are at the 100% level unless both asset
    quality and capital are very strong. A bank holding company also
    should not maintain a dividend level that places undue pressure
    on the capital of bank depository institution subsidiaries, or
    that may undermine the bank holding company s ability to
    serve as a source of strength for such bank depository
    institution subsidiaries. Under temporary guidelines in effect
    for the  near- to
     medium-term,  
    certain large bank holding companies (including Group Inc.)
    are required to

18

Table of Contents   

consult with the Federal Reserve Board before increasing
    dividends. In addition, certain of Group Inc. s
    nonbank subsidiaries are subject to separate regulatory
    limitations on dividends and distributions, including our
     broker-dealer 
    and our insurance subsidiaries as described below.

Source of
    Strength   

Under Federal Reserve Board policy, Group Inc. is expected
    to act as a source of strength to GS Bank USA and to commit
    capital and financial resources to support this subsidiary. Such
    support may be required by the Federal Reserve Board at times
    when we might otherwise determine not to provide it. Capital
    loans by a bank holding company to any of its subsidiary banks
    are subordinate in right of payment to deposits and to certain
    other indebtedness of such subsidiary banks. In the event of a
    bank holding company s bankruptcy, any commitment by the
    bank holding company to a federal bank regulator to maintain the
    capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy
    trustee and entitled to a priority of payment.

However, because the BHC Act provides for functional regulation
    of bank holding company activities by various regulators, the
    BHC Act prohibits the Federal Reserve Board from requiring
    payment by a holding company or subsidiary to a depository
    institution if the functional regulator of the payor objects to
    such payment. In such a case, the Federal Reserve Board could
    instead require the divestiture of the depository institution
    and impose operating restrictions pending the divestiture.

Cross-guarantee
    Provisions   

Each insured depository institution  controlled  (as
    defined in the BHC Act) by the same bank holding company can be
    held liable to the U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance
    Corporation for any loss incurred, or reasonably expected to be
    incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of any other insured
    depository institution controlled by that holding company and
    for any assistance provided by the FDIC to any of those banks
    that is in danger of default. Such a  cross-guarantee 
    claim against a depository institution is generally superior in
    right of payment to claims of the holding company and its
    affiliates against that depository institution. At this time, we
    control only one insured depository institution for this
    purpose, namely GS Bank USA. However, if, in the future, we were
    to control other insured depository institutions, such
    cross-guarantee would apply to all such insured depository
    institutions.

Compensation
    Practices   

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the
    Federal Reserve Board. In October 2009, the Federal Reserve
    Board issued a comprehensive proposal on incentive compensation
    policies that applies to all banking organizations supervised by
    the Federal Reserve Board, including bank holding companies such
    as Group Inc. The proposal sets forth three key principles
    for incentive compensation arrangements that are designed to
    help ensure that incentive compensation plans do not encourage
    excessive
     risk-taking 
    and are consistent with the safety and soundness of banking
    organizations. The three principles provide that a banking
    organization s incentive compensation arrangements should
    provide incentives that do not encourage
     risk-taking 
    beyond the organization s ability to effectively identify
    and manage risks, be compatible with effective internal controls
    and risk management, and be supported by strong corporate
    governance. The proposal also contemplates a detailed review by
    the Federal Reserve Board of the incentive compensation policies
    and practices of a number of  large, complex banking
    organizations,  including us. Any deficiencies in
    compensation practices that are identified may be incorporated
    into the organization s supervisory ratings, which can
    affect its ability to make acquisitions or perform other
    actions. The proposal provides that enforcement actions may be
    taken against a banking organization if its incentive
    compensation arrangements or related
     risk-management 
    control or governance processes pose a risk to the
    organization s safety and soundness and the organization is
    not taking prompt and effective measures to correct the
    deficiencies. The scope and content of the Federal Reserve
    Board s policies on executive compensation are continuing
    to develop, and we expect that these policies will evolve over a
    number of years.

19

Table of Contents   

In September 2009, the Financial Stability Board,
    established at the direction of the leaders of the Group of 20,
    released standards for implementing certain compensation
    principles for banks and other financial companies designed to
    encourage sound compensation practices. These standards are to
    be implemented by local regulators. Thus far, regulators in a
    number of countries, including the United Kingdom, France and
    Germany, have proposed or adopted policies related to
    compensation at financial institutions. These policies are in
    addition to the proposals made by the Federal Reserve Board in
    October 2009. The United Kingdom has proposed a
    non-deductible 50% tax on certain financial institutions in
    respect of discretionary bonuses in excess of  25,000
    awarded under arrangements made between
    December 9, 2009 and April 5, 2010 to
     relevant banking employees.  Separately, the FDIC has
    solicited comments on whether to amend its
     risk-based 
    deposit insurance assessment system to potentially increase
    assessment rates on financial institutions with compensation
    programs that put the Deposit Insurance Fund at risk.

FDIC Temporary
    Liquidity Guarantee Program   

Group Inc. and GS Bank USA participated in the FDIC s
    Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP), which applied to,
    among others, all U.S. depository institutions insured by
    the FDIC and all U.S. bank holding companies, unless they
    opted out of the TLGP or the FDIC terminated their
    participation. Under the TLGP, the FDIC guarantees certain
    senior unsecured debt of Group Inc., and, until
    December 31, 2009, guaranteed noninterest-bearing
    transaction account deposits at GS Bank USA, and in return for
    these guarantees the FDIC was paid a fee based on the amount of
    the deposit or the amount and maturity of the debt. Under the
    debt guarantee component of the TLGP, the FDIC will pay the
    unpaid principal and interest on an FDIC-guaranteed debt
    instrument upon the uncured failure of the participating entity
    to make a timely payment of principal or interest in accordance
    with the terms of the instrument. We have not issued
     long-term 
    debt under the TLGP since March 2009, and all of our
    previously issued debt under the TLGP will mature on or prior to
    June 15, 2012. The debt guarantee component expired
    with respect to new issuances by us on
    October 31, 2009. Effective January 1, 2010,
    GS Bank USA is not participating in the transaction account
    guarantee component of the TLGP. See  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   Liquidity and Funding Risk  
    Asset-Liability Management  in Part II, Item 7 of
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a further discussion of our participation in the TLGP.

GS Bank
    USA   

Our U.S. depository institution subsidiary, GS Bank USA, a
    New York State-chartered bank and a member of the Federal
    Reserve System and the FDIC, is regulated by the Federal Reserve
    Board and the New York State Banking Department and is subject
    to minimum capital requirements that (subject to certain
    exceptions) are similar to those applicable to bank holding
    companies. A number of our businesses are conducted partially or
    entirely through GS Bank USA and its subsidiaries, including:
    bank loan trading and origination; interest rate, credit,
    currency and other derivatives; leveraged finance; commercial
    and residential mortgage origination, trading and servicing;
    structured finance; and agency lending, custody and hedge fund
    administration services. These businesses are subject to
    regulation by the Federal Reserve Board, the New York State
    Banking Department and the FDIC.

Deposit
    Insurance   

GS Bank USA accepts deposits, and those deposits have the
    benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. The
    FDIC s Deposit Insurance Fund is funded by assessments on
    insured depository institutions, which depend on the risk
    category of an institution and the amount of insured deposits
    that it holds. The FDIC required us to prepay our estimated
    assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on
    December 30, 2009. The FDIC may increase or decrease
    the assessment rate schedule on a
     semi-annual 
    basis. We also participated in the TLGP as discussed above under
       FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
    Program. 

20

Table of Contents   

Prompt
    Corrective Action   

The U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement
    Act of 1991 (FDICIA), among other things, requires the federal
    banking agencies to take  prompt corrective action  in
    respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified
    capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories
    for FDIC-insured banks: well capitalized, adequately
    capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized
    and critically undercapitalized. A depository institution is
    generally deemed to be  well capitalized,  the highest
    category, if it has a total capital ratio of 10% or greater, a
    Tier 1 capital ratio of 6% or greater and a Tier 1
    leverage ratio of 5% or greater. In connection with the
    November 2008 asset transfer described under
       Transactions with Affiliates  below, GS
    Bank USA agreed with the Federal Reserve Board to minimum
    capital ratios in excess of these  well capitalized 
    levels. Accordingly, for a period of time, GS Bank USA is
    expected to maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8%,
    a total capital ratio of at least 11% and a Tier 1 leverage
    ratio of at least 6%. As of December 2009, GS Bank
    USA s Tier 1 capital ratio was 14.9%, its total
    capital ratio was 19.3% and its Tier 1 leverage ratio was
    15.4%. GS Bank USA computes its capital ratios in accordance
    with the regulatory capital requirements currently applicable to
    state member banks, which are based on Basel I as implemented by
    the Federal Reserve Board. An institution may be downgraded to,
    or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than is
    indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an
    unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory
    examination rating with respect to certain matters. FDICIA
    imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on
    operations, management and capital distributions, as the capital
    category of an institution declines. Failure to meet the capital
    requirements could also subject a depository institution to
    capital raising requirements. Ultimately, critically
    undercapitalized institutions are subject to the appointment of
    a receiver or conservator.

The prompt corrective action regulations apply only to
    depository institutions and not to bank holding companies such
    as Group Inc. However, the Federal Reserve Board is
    authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company
    level, based upon the undercapitalized status of the holding
    company s depository institution subsidiaries. In certain
    instances relating to an undercapitalized depository institution
    subsidiary, the bank holding company would be required to
    guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized
    subsidiary s capital restoration plan and might be liable
    for civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments
    on that guarantee. Furthermore, in the event of the bankruptcy
    of the parent holding company, the guarantee would take priority
    over the parent s general unsecured creditors.

Insolvency of
    an Insured Depository Institution   

If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an
    insured depository institution such as GS Bank USA, upon its
    insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the power:

to transfer any of the depository institution s assets and
    liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the
    depository institution s creditors;

to enforce the terms of the depository institution s
    contracts pursuant to their terms; or

to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the
    depository institution is a party, the performance of which is
    determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmance or
    repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the
    orderly administration of the depository institution.

21

Table of Contents   

In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of deposit
    liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses
    against an insured depository institution would be afforded a
    priority over other general unsecured claims against such an
    institution, including claims of debt holders of the
    institution, in the  liquidation or other resolution 
    of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or
    not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of GS
    Bank USA, the debt holders would be treated differently from,
    and could receive, if anything, substantially less than, the
    depositors of the depository institution.

Transactions
    with Affiliates   

Transactions between GS Bank USA and Group Inc. and its
    subsidiaries and affiliates are regulated by the Federal Reserve
    Board. These regulations limit the types and amounts of
    transactions (including loans to and credit extensions from GS
    Bank USA) that may take place and generally require those
    transactions to be on an arms-length basis. These regulations
    generally do not apply to transactions between GS Bank USA and
    its subsidiaries. In November 2008, Group Inc.
    transferred assets and operations to GS Bank USA. In connection
    with this transfer, Group Inc. entered into a guarantee
    agreement with GS Bank USA whereby Group Inc. agreed to
    (i) purchase from GS Bank USA certain transferred assets
    (other than derivatives and mortgage servicing rights) or
    reimburse GS Bank USA for certain losses relating to those
    assets; (ii) reimburse GS Bank USA for
     credit-related 
    losses from assets transferred to GS Bank USA; and
    (iii) protect GS Bank USA or reimburse it for certain
    losses arising from derivatives and mortgage servicing rights
    transferred to GS Bank USA. In accordance with the
    guarantee agreement, as of December 2009, Group Inc.
    is also required to pledge approximately $4 billion of
    collateral to GS Bank USA.

Trust Companies   

Group Inc. s two limited purpose trust company
    subsidiaries operate under state or federal law. They are not
    permitted to and do not accept deposits or make loans (other
    than as incidental to their trust activities) and, as a result,
    are not insured by the FDIC. The Goldman Sachs
    Trust Company, N.A., a national banking association that is
    limited to fiduciary activities, is regulated by the Office of
    the Comptroller of the Currency and is a member bank of the
    Federal Reserve System. The Goldman Sachs Trust Company of
    Delaware, a Delaware limited purpose trust company, is regulated
    by the Office of the Delaware State Bank Commissioner.

U.S. Securities
    and Commodities Regulation  

Goldman Sachs 
     broker-dealer 
    subsidiaries are subject to regulations that cover all aspects
    of the securities business, including sales methods, trade
    practices, use and safekeeping of clients  funds and
    securities, capital structure, recordkeeping, the financing of
    clients  purchases, and the conduct of directors, officers
    and employees.

In the United States, the SEC is the federal agency responsible
    for the administration of the federal securities laws.
    GS Co. is registered as a
     broker-dealer 
    and as an investment adviser with the SEC and as a
     broker-dealer 
    in all 50 states and the District of Columbia. Self-regulatory
    organizations, such as FINRA and the NYSE, adopt rules that
    apply to, and examine,
     broker-dealers 
    such as GS Co. In addition, state securities and other
    regulators also have regulatory or oversight authority over
    GS Co. Similarly, our businesses are also subject to
    regulation by various
     non-U.S. governmental 
    and regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in
    virtually all countries where we have offices. Goldman Sachs
    Execution   Clearing, L.P. (GSEC) and one of its
    subsidiaries are registered
     U.S. broker-dealers 
    and are regulated by the SEC, the NYSE and FINRA. Goldman Sachs
    Financial Markets, L.P. is registered with the SEC as an OTC
    derivatives dealer and conducts certain OTC derivatives
    businesses.

22

Table of Contents   

The commodity futures and commodity options industry in the
    United States is subject to regulation under the
    U.S. Commodity Exchange Act (CEA). The CFTC is the federal
    agency charged with the administration of the CEA. Several of
    Goldman Sachs  subsidiaries, including GS Co. and
    GSEC, are registered with the CFTC and act as futures commission
    merchants, commodity pool operators or commodity trading
    advisors and are subject to the CEA. The rules and regulations
    of various self-regulatory organizations, such as the Chicago
    Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange, other
    futures exchanges and the National Futures Association, also
    govern the commodity futures and commodity options businesses of
    these entities.

GS Co. and GSEC are subject to
     Rule 15c3-1 
    of the SEC and Rule 1.17 of the CFTC, which specify uniform
    minimum net capital requirements and also effectively require
    that a significant part of the registrants  assets be kept
    in relatively liquid form. GS Co. and GSEC have elected to
    compute their minimum capital requirements in accordance with
    the  Alternative Net Capital Requirement  as permitted
    by
     Rule 15c3-1. 
    As of December 2009, GS Co. had regulatory net
    capital, as defined by
     Rule 15c3-1, 
    of $13.65 billion, which exceeded the amount required by
    $11.81 billion. As of December 2009, GSEC had
    regulatory net capital, as defined by
     Rule 15c3-1, 
    of $1.97 billion, which exceeded the amount required by
    $1.86 billion. In addition to its alternative minimum net
    capital requirements, GS Co. is also required to hold
    tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net
    capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the
    market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of
     Rule 15c3-1. 
    GS Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that
    its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of
    December 2009, GS Co. had tentative net capital and
    net capital in excess of both the minimum and the notification
    requirements. These net capital requirements may have the effect
    of prohibiting these entities from distributing or withdrawing
    capital and may require prior notice to the SEC for certain
    withdrawals of capital. See Note 17 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our exchange-based
     market-making 
    businesses are subject to extensive regulation by a number of
    securities exchanges. As a Designated Market Maker on the NYSE
    and as a market maker on other exchanges, we are required to
    maintain orderly markets in the securities to which we are
    assigned. Under the NYSE s Designated Market Maker rules,
    this may require us to supply liquidity to these markets in
    certain circumstances.

J. Aron   Company is authorized by the
    U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to sell
    wholesale physical power at
     market-based 
    rates. As a FERC-authorized power marketer,
    J. Aron   Company is subject to regulation under
    the U.S. Federal Power Act and FERC regulations and to the
    oversight of FERC. As a result of our investing activities,
    GS Co. is also an  exempt holding company  under
    the U.S. Public Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 and
    applicable FERC rules.

In addition, as a result of our power-related and commodities
    activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy,
    environmental and other governmental laws and regulations, as
    discussed under  Risk Factors   Our commodities
    activities, particularly our power generation interests and our
    physical commodities businesses, subject us to extensive
    regulation, potential catastrophic events and environmental,
    reputational and other risks that may expose us to significant
    liabilities and costs  in Part I, Item 1A of this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

23

Table of Contents   

Other Regulation
    in the United States  

Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to state
    insurance regulation and oversight in the states in which they
    are domiciled and in the other states in which they are
    licensed, and Group Inc. is subject to oversight as an
    insurance holding company in states where our insurance
    subsidiaries are domiciled. State insurance regulations limit
    the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to
    Group Inc. in certain circumstances, and could require
    regulatory approval for any change in  control  of
    Group Inc., which may include control of 10% or more of our
    voting stock. In addition, a number of our other businesses,
    including our lending and mortgage businesses, require us to
    obtain licenses, adhere to applicable regulations and be subject
    to the oversight of various regulators in the states in which we
    conduct these businesses.

The U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), as amended by the USA
    PATRIOT Act of 2001 (PATRIOT Act), contains anti-money
    laundering and financial transparency laws and mandated the
    implementation of various regulations applicable to all
    financial institutions, including standards for verifying client
    identification at account opening, and obligations to monitor
    client transactions and report suspicious activities. Through
    these and other provisions, the BSA and the PATRIOT Act seek to
    promote the identification of parties that may be involved in
    terrorism, money laundering or other suspicious activities.
    Anti-money laundering laws outside the United States contain
    some similar provisions. The obligation of financial
    institutions, including Goldman Sachs, to identify their
    clients, to monitor for and report suspicious transactions, to
    respond to requests for information by regulatory authorities
    and law enforcement agencies, and to share information with
    other financial institutions, has required the implementation
    and maintenance of internal practices, procedures and controls
    that have increased, and may continue to increase, our costs,
    and any failure with respect to our programs in this area could
    subject us to substantial liability and regulatory fines.

Regulation Outside
    the United States  

Goldman Sachs provides investment services in and from the
    United Kingdom under the regulation of the FSA. Goldman Sachs
    International (GSI), our regulated U.K.
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to the capital requirements imposed by the FSA. As of
    December 2009, GSI was in compliance with the FSA capital
    requirements. Other subsidiaries, including Goldman Sachs
    International Bank, are also regulated by the FSA.

Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC (GS Bank Europe), our regulated
    Irish bank, is subject to minimum capital requirements imposed
    by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority. As of
    December 2009, this bank was in compliance with all
    regulatory capital requirements. Group Inc. has issued a
    general guarantee of the obligations of this bank.

Various other Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the
    banking, insurance and securities regulatory authorities of the
    European countries in which they operate, including, among
    others, the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and
    the Bundesbank in Germany, Banque de France and the
    Autorit  des March s Financiers in France, Banca
    d Italia and the Commissione Nazionale per le Societ 
    e la Borsa (CONSOB) in Italy, the Federal Financial Markets
    Service in Russia and the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory
    Authority. Certain Goldman Sachs entities are also regulated by
    the European securities, derivatives and commodities exchanges
    of which they are members.

The investment services that are subject to oversight by the FSA
    and other regulators within the European Union (EU) are
    regulated in accordance with national laws, many of which
    implement EU directives requiring, among other things,
    compliance with certain capital adequacy standards, customer
    protection requirements and market conduct and trade reporting
    rules. These standards, requirements and rules are similarly
    implemented, under the same directives, throughout the EU.

24

Table of Contents   

Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL), our regulated Japanese
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to the capital requirements imposed by Japan s
    Financial Services Agency. As of December 2009, GSJCL was
    in compliance with its capital adequacy requirements. GSJCL is
    also regulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities
    Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange, the Japan Securities
    Dealers Association, the Tokyo Commodity Exchange and the
    Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Japan.

Also in Asia, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong
    Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the China Securities
    Regulatory Commission, the Korean Financial Supervisory Service,
    the Reserve Bank of India and the Securities and Exchange Board
    of India, among others, regulate various of our subsidiaries and
    also have capital standards and other requirements comparable to
    the rules of the SEC.

Various Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the banking and
    regulatory authorities in other
     non-U.S. countries 
    in which Goldman Sachs operates, including, among others, Brazil
    and Dubai. In addition, certain of our insurance subsidiaries
    are part of the Lloyd s market (which is regulated by the
    FSA) and certain are regulated by the Bermuda Monetary Authority.

Regulations
    Applicable in and Outside the United States  

The U.S. and
     non-U.S. government 
    agencies, regulatory bodies and self-regulatory organizations,
    as well as state securities commissions and other state
    regulators in the United States, are empowered to conduct
    administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the
    issuance of cease and desist orders, or the suspension or
    expulsion of a
     broker-dealer 
    or its directors, officers or employees. From time to time, our
    subsidiaries have been subject to investigations and
    proceedings, and sanctions have been imposed for infractions of
    various regulations relating to our activities, none of which
    has had a material adverse effect on us or our businesses.

The SEC and FINRA have rules governing research analysts,
    including rules imposing restrictions on the interaction between
    equity research analysts and investment banking personnel at
    member securities firms. Various
     non-U.S. jurisdictions 
    have imposed both substantive and disclosure-based requirements
    with respect to research and may impose additional regulations.
    In 2003, GS Co. agreed to a global settlement with certain
    federal and state securities regulators and self-regulatory
    organizations to resolve investigations into equity research
    analysts  alleged conflicts of interest. The global
    settlement includes certain restrictions and undertakings that
    impose costs and limitations on the conduct of our businesses,
    including restrictions on the interaction between research and
    investment banking areas.

Our investment management businesses are subject to significant
    regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating
    to, among other things, the safeguarding of client assets and
    our management of client funds.

As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to
    regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the
    world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold
    capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency
    requirements or internal policies, including policies concerning
    the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based
    upon its underlying risk.

Certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with
    regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments,
    the European Union or other jurisdictions
     and/or 
    enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges
    relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees
    or others, and any failure to comply with these regulations
    could expose us to liability
     and/or 
    reputational damage.

25

Table of Contents   

Item 1A.  Risk
    Factors  

We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in
    our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit,
    operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. The
    following are some of the more important factors that could
    affect our businesses.

Our businesses
    have been and may continue to be adversely affected by
    conditions in the global financial markets and economic
    conditions generally.   

Our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable
    earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by
    conditions in the global financial markets and economic
    conditions generally. In the past several years, these
    conditions have changed suddenly and, for a period of time, very
    negatively.

In 2008 and through early 2009, the financial services industry
    and the securities markets generally were materially and
    adversely affected by significant declines in the values of
    nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of liquidity.
    This was initially triggered by declines in the values of
    subprime mortgages, but spread to all mortgage and real estate
    asset classes, to leveraged bank loans and to nearly all asset
    classes, including equities. The global markets during this
    period were characterized by substantially increased volatility
    and
     short-selling 
    and an overall loss of investor and public confidence. The
    decline in asset values caused increases in margin calls for
    investors, requirements that derivatives counterparties post
    additional collateral and redemptions by mutual and hedge fund
    investors, all of which increased the downward pressure on asset
    values and outflows of client funds across the financial
    services industry. While the markets have generally stabilized
    and improved since the first quarter of 2009, asset values for
    many asset classes have not returned to previous levels.
    Business, financial and economic conditions, particularly
    unemployment levels, lending activities and the housing markets,
    continue to be negatively impacted by the events of recent years.

Market conditions led to the failure or merger of a number of
    prominent financial institutions. Financial institution failures
    or near-failures resulted in further losses as a consequence of
    defaults on securities issued by them and defaults under
    bilateral derivatives and other contracts entered into with such
    entities as counterparties. Furthermore, declining asset values,
    defaults on mortgages and consumer loans, and the lack of market
    and investor confidence, as well as other factors, combined to
    increase credit default swap spreads, to cause rating agencies
    to lower credit ratings, and to otherwise increase the cost and
    decrease the availability of liquidity, despite very significant
    declines in central bank borrowing rates and other government
    actions.

Banks and other lenders have suffered significant losses and
    some have become reluctant to lend, even on a secured basis, due
    to the increased risk of default, the impact of declining asset
    values on the value of collateral and the impact of
     risky  assets and transactions on capital
    requirements. In addition, some financial institutions are
    unwilling to sell assets where the value of such assets are not
      marked-to-market  
    and would have to be sold at a loss because they are worth
    significantly less than their current book value. The markets
    for securitized debt offerings backed by mortgages, loans,
    credit card receivables and other assets, which for the most
    part were closed during 2008 and the beginning of 2009, have
    very recently begun to reopen.

Since 2008, governments, regulators and central banks in the
    United States and worldwide have taken numerous steps to
    increase liquidity and to restore investor and public
    confidence. In addition, there are numerous legislative and
    regulatory actions that have been taken or proposed to deal with
    what regulators, politicians and others believe to be the root
    causes of the financial crisis, including proposals relating to
    financial institution capital requirements and compensation
    practices, proposals relating to restrictions on the type of
    activities in which financial institutions are permitted to
    engage and the size of financial institutions, and proposals to
    impose additional taxes on certain financial institutions, as
    well as proposals calling for increased regulatory scrutiny and
    coordination with respect to the financial services industry and
    markets. It is presently unclear which of these proposals will
    be adopted and in what form and whether the net effect of such
    proposals will in fact be positive or negative for the financial
    markets over either the short or
     long-term. 

26

Table of Contents   

During 2009, the economies of the United States, Europe and
    Japan experienced a recession. Business activity across a wide
    range of industries and regions has been greatly reduced and
    many companies were, and some continue to be, in serious
    difficulty due to reduced consumer spending and low levels of
    liquidity in the credit markets. National and local governments
    are facing difficult financial conditions due to significant
    reductions in tax revenues, particularly from corporate and
    personal income taxes, as well as increased outlays for
    unemployment benefits due to high unemployment levels and the
    cost of stimulus programs.

Declines in asset values, the lack of liquidity, general
    uncertainty about economic and market activities and a lack of
    consumer, investor and CEO confidence have negatively impacted
    many of our businesses, including our investment banking,
    merchant banking, asset management, leveraged lending and equity
    principal strategies businesses.

Our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment
    in which our businesses operate. A favorable business
    environment is generally characterized by, among other factors,
    high global gross domestic product growth, transparent, liquid
    and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and
    investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, and strong
    business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market
    conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth,
    business activity or investor or business confidence;
    limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of
    credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates,
    exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic
    commodities; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical
    instability; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce
    investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or
    pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors.

The business environment became generally more favorable after
    the first quarter of 2009, but there can be no assurance that
    these conditions will continue in the near or long term. If they
    do not, our results of operations may be adversely affected.

Our businesses
    have been and may be adversely affected by declining asset
    values.   

Many of our businesses, such as our merchant banking businesses,
    our mortgages, leveraged loan and credit products businesses in
    our FICC segment, and our equity principal strategies business,
    have net  long  positions in debt securities, loans,
    derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity) and
    most other asset classes. In addition, many of our
     market-making 
    and other businesses in which we act as a principal to
    facilitate our clients  activities, including our
    exchange-based
     market-making 
    businesses, commit large amounts of capital to maintain trading
    positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as
    currencies, commodities and equities. Because nearly all of
    these investing and trading positions are
     marked-to-market 
    on a daily basis, declines in asset values directly and
    immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively
     hedged  our exposures to such declines. In certain
    circumstances (particularly in the case of leveraged loans and
    private equities or other securities that are not freely
    tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may
    not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the
    extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly
    reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the
    assets. Sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices
    of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading
    markets for certain assets, which may make it very difficult to
    sell, hedge or value such assets. The inability to sell or
    effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in
    such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may require
    us to maintain additional capital and increase our funding costs.

In our exchange-based
     market-making 
    businesses, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain
    an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in a declining
    market. In markets where asset values are declining and in
    volatile markets, this results in trading losses and an
    increased need for liquidity.

27

Table of Contents   

We receive
     asset-based 
    management fees based on the value of our clients 
    portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some
    cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the
    value of such investments. Declines in asset values reduce the
    value of our clients  portfolios or fund assets, which in
    turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets.

We post collateral to support our obligations and receive
    collateral to support the obligations of our clients and
    counterparties in connection with our trading businesses. When
    the value of the assets posted as collateral declines, the party
    posting the collateral may need to provide additional collateral
    or, if possible, reduce its trading position. A classic example
    of such a situation is a  margin call  in connection
    with a brokerage account. Therefore, declines in the value of
    asset classes used as collateral mean that either the cost of
    funding trading positions is increased or the size of trading
    positions is decreased. If we are the party providing collateral
    this can increase our costs and reduce our profitability and if
    we are the party receiving collateral this can also reduce our
    profitability by reducing the level of business done with our
    clients and counterparties. In addition, volatile or less liquid
    markets increase the difficulty of valuing assets which can lead
    to costly and time-consuming disputes over asset values and the
    level of required collateral, as well as increased credit risk
    to the recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving
    adequate collateral.

Our businesses
    have been and may be adversely affected by disruptions in the
    credit markets, including reduced access to credit and higher
    costs of obtaining credit.   

Widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the
    availability of credit, have in the past adversely affected our
    ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may do so
    in the future. We fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by
    issuing
     long-term 
    debt, promissory notes and commercial paper, by accepting
    deposits at our bank subsidiaries or by obtaining bank loans or
    lines of credit. We seek to finance many of our assets on a
    secured basis, including by entering into repurchase agreements.
    Any disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and
    more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. If our
    available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our
    operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to
    curtail our business activities and increase our cost of
    funding, both of which could reduce our profitability,
    particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending
    and taking principal positions, including market making.

Our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on
    access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance
    their transactions. A lack of available credit or an increased
    cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing
    of our clients  merger and acquisition
    transactions   particularly large
    transactions   and adversely affect our financial
    advisory and underwriting businesses.

In addition, we may incur significant unrealized gains or losses
    due solely to changes in our credit spreads or those of third
    parties, as these changes may affect the fair value of our
    derivative instruments and the debt securities that we hold or
    issue.

Our businesses
    have been and may be affected by changes in the levels of market
    volatility.   

Certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to
    provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in
    volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect
    the results of these businesses. On the other hand, increased
    volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads,
    also increases risk as measured by VaR and may expose us to
    increased risks in connection with our
     market-making 
    and proprietary businesses or cause us to reduce the size of
    these businesses in order to avoid increasing our VaR. Limiting
    the size of our
     market-making 
    positions and investing businesses can adversely affect our
    profitability, even though spreads are widening and we may earn
    more on each trade. In periods when volatility is increasing,
    but asset values are declining significantly, it may not be
    possible to sell assets at all or it may only be possible to do
    so at steep discounts. In such circumstances we may be forced to
    either take on additional risk or to incur losses in order to
    decrease our VaR. In addition, increases in volatility increase
    the level of our risk weighted assets and increase our capital
    requirements which in turn increases our funding costs.

28

Table of Contents   

Our businesses
    have been adversely affected and may continue to be adversely
    affected by market uncertainty or lack of confidence among
    investors and CEOs due to general declines in economic activity
    and other unfavorable economic, geopolitical or market
    conditions.   

Our investment banking business has been and may continue to be
    adversely affected by market conditions. Poor economic
    conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can
    adversely affect and have adversely affected investor and CEO
    confidence, resulting in significant
     industry-wide 
    declines in the size and number of underwritings and of
    financial advisory transactions, which could have an adverse
    effect on our revenues and our profit margins. In particular,
    because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues
    is derived from our participation in large transactions, a
    decline in the number of large transactions would adversely
    affect our investment banking business.

In certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines
    in market or economic activity may affect our trading businesses
    by decreasing levels of overall activity or by decreasing
    volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and even
    declining economic activity may result in higher trading volumes
    or higher spreads or both.

Market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions,
    as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to
    transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or
    their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues,
    principally in our asset management business. To the extent that
    clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them in
    products that generate less fee income.

Our investing
    businesses may be affected by the poor investment performance of
    our investment products.   

Poor investment returns in our asset management business, due to
    either general market conditions or underperformance (against
    the performance of benchmarks or of our competitors) by funds or
    accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or
    sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to
    attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients.
    This could affect the asset management and incentive fees that
    we earn on assets under management or the commissions that we
    earn for selling other investment products, such as structured
    notes or derivatives.

We have in the past provided financial support to certain of our
    investment products in difficult market circumstances and, at
    our discretion, we may decide to do so in the future for
    reputational or business reasons, including through equity
    investments or cash infusions.

We may incur
    losses as a result of ineffective risk management processes and
    strategies.   

We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk
    and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but
    complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and
    legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review
    processes and other mechanisms. Our trading risk management
    process seeks to balance our ability to profit from trading
    positions with our exposure to potential losses. While we employ
    a broad and diversified set of risk monitoring and risk
    mitigation techniques, those techniques and the judgments that
    accompany their application cannot anticipate every economic and
    financial outcome or the specifics and timing of such outcomes.
    Thus, we may, in the course of our activities, incur losses.
    Market conditions in recent years have involved unprecedented
    dislocations and highlight the limitations inherent in using
    historical data to manage risk.

29

Table of Contents   

The models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures
    reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack
    thereof among prices of various asset classes or other market
    indicators. In times of market stress or other unforeseen
    circumstances, such as occurred during 2008 and early 2009,
    previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or
    conversely previously correlated indicators may move in
    different directions. These types of market movements have at
    times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and
    have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so
    in the future. These changes in correlation can be exacerbated
    where other market participants are using risk or trading models
    with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. In
    these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk
    positions due to the activity of other market participants or
    widespread market dislocations, including circumstances where
    asset values are declining significantly or no market exists for
    certain assets. To the extent that we make investments directly
    through various of our businesses in securities, including
    private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading
    market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or
    hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and
    therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. In
    addition, we invest our own capital in our merchant banking,
    alternative investment and infrastructure funds, and limitations
    on our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in
    these funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons,
    may make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures
    relating to these investments.

For a further discussion of our risk management policies and
    procedures, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Risk Management  in Part II, Item 7 of this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our liquidity,
    profitability and businesses may be adversely affected by an
    inability to access the debt capital markets or to sell assets
    or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an increase in our
    credit spreads.   

Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity may be
    impaired by an inability to access secured
     and/or 
    unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our
    subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our
    investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. This
    situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable
    to control, such as a general market disruption or an
    operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by
    the perception among market participants that we, or other
    market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk.

The financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to
    which we are a party are complex, as we employ structured
    products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex
    structured products often do not have readily available markets
    to access in times of liquidity stress. Our investing activities
    may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities
    represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could
    restrict liquidity for our positions. Further, our ability to
    sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are
    seeking to sell similar assets at the same time, as is likely to
    occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. In addition,
    financial institutions with which we interact may exercise
    set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral,
    including in difficult market conditions, which could further
    impair our access to liquidity.

Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction
    in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and
    competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our
    access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under
    certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and
    collateralized financing contracts. Under these provisions,
    counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with
    Goldman Sachs or require us to post additional collateral.
    Termination of our trading and collateralized financing
    contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our
    liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or
    to make significant cash payments or securities movements.

30

Table of Contents   

Our cost of obtaining
     long-term 
    unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the
    amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury
    securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same maturity
    that we need to pay to our debt investors). Increases in our
    credit spreads can significantly increase our cost of this
    funding. Changes in credit spreads are continuous,
     market-driven, 
    and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile
    movements. Credit spreads are influenced by market perceptions
    of our creditworthiness. In addition, our credit spreads may be
    influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers of credit
    default swaps referenced to our
     long-term 
    debt. The market for credit default swaps is relatively new,
    although very large, and it has proven to be extremely volatile
    and currently lacks a high degree of structure or transparency.

Group Inc.
    is a holding company and is dependent for liquidity on payments
    from its subsidiaries, which are subject to
    restrictions.   

Group Inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on
    dividends, distributions and other payments from its
    subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments
    on its obligations, including debt obligations. Many of our
    subsidiaries, including our
     broker-dealer, 
    bank and insurance subsidiaries, are subject to laws that
    restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to
    block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to
    Group Inc. In addition, our
     broker-dealer, 
    bank and insurance subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on
    their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum
    regulatory capital requirements, as well as restrictions on
    their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or
    bank accounts to fund their businesses. Additional restrictions
    on related-party transactions, increased capital requirements
    and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in
    bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can
    reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of
    Group Inc. and even require Group Inc. to provide
    additional funding to such subsidiaries. Restrictions or
    regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that
    Group Inc. needs to make payments on its obligations,
    including debt obligations, or dividend payments. In addition,
    Group Inc. s right to participate in a distribution of
    assets upon a subsidiary s liquidation or reorganization is
    subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors.

Furthermore, Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment
    obligations of GS Co., GS Bank USA and GS Bank Europe,
    subject to certain exceptions, and has pledged significant
    assets to GS Bank USA to support obligations to GS Bank USA. In
    addition, Group Inc. guarantees many of the obligations of
    its other consolidated subsidiaries on a
     transaction-by-transaction 
    basis, as negotiated with counterparties. These guarantees may
    require Group Inc. to provide substantial funds or assets
    to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a
    time when Group Inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its
    own obligations. See  Business   Regulation 
    in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Our
    businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely
    affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults
    by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets
    or whose securities or obligations we hold.   

We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money,
    securities or other assets will not perform their obligations.
    These parties may default on their obligations to us due to
    bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other
    reasons. A failure of a significant market participant, or even
    concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to
    significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other
    institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us.

We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third
    parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In
    addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties
    whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses
     and/or 
    adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use
    those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A
    significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our
    counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results.
    While in many cases we are permitted to require additional
    collateral from counterparties that experience financial
    difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we
    are entitled to receive and the value of pledged

31

Table of Contents   

assets. The termination of contracts and the foreclosure on
    collateral may subject us to claims for the improper exercise of
    our rights. Default rates, downgrades and disputes with
    counterparties as to the valuation of collateral increase
    significantly in times of market stress and illiquidity.

As part of our clearing business, we finance our client
    positions, and we could be held responsible for the defaults or
    misconduct of our clients. Although we regularly review credit
    exposures to specific clients and counterparties and to specific
    industries, countries and regions that we believe may present
    credit concerns, default risk may arise from events or
    circumstances that are difficult to detect or foresee.

Concentration
    of risk increases the potential for significant
    losses.   

Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant
    losses in our
     market-making, 
    proprietary trading, investing, block trading, merchant banking,
    underwriting and lending businesses. This risk may increase to
    the extent we expand our
     market-making, 
    trading, investing and lending businesses. The number and size
    of such transactions may affect our results of operations in a
    given period. Moreover, because of concentration of risk, we may
    suffer losses even when economic and market conditions are
    generally favorable for our competitors. Disruptions in the
    credit markets can make it difficult to hedge these credit
    exposures effectively or economically. In addition, we extend
    large commitments as part of our credit origination activities.
    Our inability to reduce our credit risk by selling, syndicating
    or securitizing these positions, including during periods of
    market stress, could negatively affect our results of operations
    due to a decrease in the fair value of the positions, including
    due to the insolvency or bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as
    the loss of revenues associated with selling such securities or
    loans.

In the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a
    concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty,
    borrower or issuer, including sovereign issuers, and a failure
    or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could negatively
    impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the systems by
    which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure
    to individual entities, industries and countries may not
    function as we have anticipated. While our activities expose us
    to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely
    execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties in the
    financial services industry, including brokers and dealers,
    commercial banks, clearing houses, exchanges and investment
    funds. This has resulted in significant credit concentration
    with respect to this industry. To the extent regulatory or
    market developments lead to an increased centralization of
    trading activity through particular clearing houses, central
    agents or exchanges, this may increase our concentration of risk
    with respect to these entities.

The financial
    services industry is highly competitive.   

The financial services industry   and all of our
    businesses   are intensely competitive, and we expect
    them to remain so. We compete on the basis of a number of
    factors, including transaction execution, our products and
    services, innovation, reputation, creditworthiness and price.
    Over time, there has been substantial consolidation and
    convergence among companies in the financial services industry.
    This trend accelerated over recent years as a result of numerous
    mergers and asset acquisitions among industry participants. This
    trend has also hastened the globalization of the securities and
    other financial services markets. As a result, we have had to
    commit capital to support our international operations and to
    execute large global transactions. To the extent we expand into
    new business areas and new geographic regions, we will face
    competitors with more experience and more established
    relationships with clients, regulators and industry participants
    in the relevant market, which could adversely affect our ability
    to expand. Governments and regulators have recently put forward
    various proposals that may impact our ability to conduct certain
    of our businesses in a
     cost-effective 
    manner or at all, including proposals relating to restrictions
    on the type of activities in which financial institutions are
    permitted to engage and the size of financial institutions, and
    proposals to impose additional taxes on certain financial
    institutions. These or other similar proposals, which may not
    apply to all our competitors, could impact our ability to
    compete effectively.

32

Table of Contents   

Pricing and other competitive pressures in our investment
    banking business, as well as our other businesses, have
    continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of
    our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing
    prices. For example, in connection with investment banking and
    other assignments, we have experienced pressure to extend and
    price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us
    for the risks we take.

We face
    enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to transact
    with a broader array of clients and counterparties and expose us
    to new asset classes and new markets.   

A number of our recent and planned business initiatives and
    expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact,
    directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are
    not within our traditional client and counterparty base and
    expose us to new asset classes and new markets. These business
    activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, including risks
    associated with dealing with governmental entities, reputational
    concerns arising from dealing with less sophisticated
    counterparties and investors, greater regulatory scrutiny of
    these activities, increased
     credit-related, 
    sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or
    acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in
    which these assets are being operated or held.

Derivative
    transactions and delayed settlements may expose us to unexpected
    risk and potential losses.   

We are party to a large number of derivative transactions,
    including credit derivatives. Many of these derivative
    instruments are individually negotiated and
     non-standardized, 
    which can make exiting, transferring or settling positions
    difficult. Many credit derivatives require that we deliver to
    the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other
    obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we
    do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation
    and may not be able to obtain, the underlying security, loan or
    other obligation. This could cause us to forfeit the payments
    due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays
    with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as
    increased costs to the firm.

Derivative contracts and other transactions, including secondary
    bank loan purchases and sales, entered into with third parties
    are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a
    timely basis. While the transaction remains unconfirmed or
    during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened
    credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may
    find it more difficult to enforce our rights. In addition, as
    new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a
    wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes
    about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which
    could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk
    exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs.
    Any regulatory effort to create an exchange or trading platform
    for credit derivatives and other OTC derivative contracts, or a
    market shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the
    risk associated with such transactions, but under certain
    circumstances could also limit our ability to develop
    derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and
    ourselves and adversely affect our profitability and increase
    our credit exposure to such platform.

Our businesses
    may be adversely affected if we are unable to hire and retain
    qualified employees.   

Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts
    of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability
    to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our
    businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and
    geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new employees
    and to retain and motivate our existing employees. Competition
    from within the financial services industry and from businesses
    outside the financial services industry for qualified employees
    has often been intense. This is particularly the case in
    emerging markets, where we are often competing for qualified
    employees with entities that have a significantly greater
    presence or more extensive experience in the region.

33

Table of Contents   

As described further in  Business  
    Regulation   Banking Regulation  
    Compensation Practices  in Part I, Item 1 of this
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K, 
    our compensation practices are subject to review by, and the
    standards of, the Federal Reserve Board. As a large financial
    and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on
    compensation practices (which may or may not affect our
    competitors) by the Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC or other
    regulators worldwide. These limitations, including any imposed
    by or as a result of future legislation or regulation or the
    Federal Reserve Board s proposal on incentive compensation
    policies, may require us to alter our compensation practices in
    ways that could adversely affect our ability to attract and
    retain talented employees. We may also be required to make
    additional disclosure with respect to the compensation of
    employees, including
     non-executive 
    officers, in a manner that directly or indirectly results in the
    identity of such employees and their compensation being made
    public. Any such additional public disclosure of employee
    compensation may also make it difficult to attract and retain
    talented employees.

Our businesses
    and those of our clients are subject to extensive and pervasive
    regulation around the world.   

As a participant in the financial services industry and a bank
    holding company, we are subject to extensive regulation in
    jurisdictions around the world. We face the risk of significant
    intervention by regulatory and taxing authorities in all
    jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. Among other
    things, as a result of regulators enforcing existing laws and
    regulations, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some
    of our business activities, subject to limitations or conditions
    on our business activities or subjected to new or substantially
    higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with
    the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees. In
    addition, recent market disruptions have led to numerous
    proposals in the United States and internationally for changes
    in the regulation and taxation of the financial services
    industry, including increased capital or new liquidity or
    leverage requirements for banks.

There is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes
    in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our
    businesses or those of our clients, including tax burdens and
    compensation restrictions, could be imposed on a limited subset
    of financial institutions (either based on size, activities,
    geography or other criteria), which may adversely affect our
    ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are
    not affected in the same way.

The impact of such developments could impact our profitability
    in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us
    to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such
    jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs
    associated with changing our business practices, restructuring
    our businesses, moving all or certain of our businesses and our
    employees to other locations or complying with applicable
    capital requirements, including liquidating assets or raising
    capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs
    or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors.

For a discussion of the extensive regulation to which our
    businesses are subject, see  Business  
    Regulation  in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

We may be
    adversely affected by increased governmental and regulatory
    scrutiny or negative publicity.   

Governmental scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies and
    law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating to
    compensation, our business practices, our past actions and other
    matters has increased dramatically in the past several years.
    The financial crisis and the current political and public
    sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a
    significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as adverse
    statements or charges by regulators or elected officials. Press
    coverage and other public statements that assert some form of
    wrongdoing, regardless of the factual basis for the assertions
    being made, often results in some type of investigation by
    regulators,

34

Table of Contents   

legislators and law enforcement officials or in lawsuits.
    Responding to these investigations and lawsuits, regardless of
    the ultimate outcome of the proceeding, is time consuming and
    expensive and can divert the time and effort of our senior
    management from our business. Penalties and fines sought by
    regulatory authorities have increased substantially over the
    last several years, and certain regulators have been more likely
    in recent years to commence enforcement actions or to advance or
    support legislation targeted at the financial services industry.
    Adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny and legal and
    enforcement proceedings can also have a negative impact on our
    reputation and on the morale and performance of our employees,
    which could adversely affect our businesses and results of
    operations.

A failure in
    our operational systems or infrastructure, or those of third
    parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our businesses,
    result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our
    reputation and cause losses.   

Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process
    and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of
    transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous
    and diverse markets in many currencies. These transactions, as
    well as the information technology services we provide to
    clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as
    well as legal and regulatory standards. As our client base and
    our geographical reach expands, developing and maintaining our
    operational systems and infrastructure becomes increasingly
    challenging. Our financial, accounting, data processing or other
    operating systems and facilities may fail to operate properly or
    become disabled as a result of events that are wholly or
    partially beyond our control, such as a spike in transaction
    volume, adversely affecting our ability to process these
    transactions or provide these services. We must continuously
    update these systems to support our operations and growth. This
    updating entails significant costs and creates risks associated
    with implementing new systems and integrating them with existing
    ones.

In addition, we also face the risk of operational failure,
    termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing
    agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial
    intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions,
    and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we
    increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect
    to our clients  systems. In recent years, there has been
    significant consolidation among clearing agents, exchanges and
    clearing houses, which has increased our exposure to operational
    failure, termination or capacity constraints of the particular
    financial intermediaries that we use and could affect our
    ability to find adequate and
     cost-effective 
    alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or
    constraint. Industry consolidation, whether among market
    participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of
    operational failure as disparate complex systems need to be
    integrated, often on an accelerated basis.

Furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial
    institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses,
    and the increased centrality of these entities under proposed
    and potential regulation, increases the risk that an operational
    failure at one institution or entity may cause an
     industry-wide 
    operational failure that could materially impact our ability to
    conduct business. Any such failure, termination or constraint
    could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions,
    service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our
    businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our
    clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our
    businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage.

Despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place,
    our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a
    disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses
    and the communities in which we are located. This may include a
    disruption involving electrical, communications, internet,
    transportation or other services used by us or third parties
    with which we conduct business. These disruptions may occur as a
    result of events that affect only our buildings or the buildings
    of such third parties, or as a result of events with a broader
    impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those
    buildings are located.

35

Table of Contents   

Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including
    the New York metropolitan area, London, Frankfurt, Hong Kong,
    Tokyo and Bangalore, work in close proximity to one another, in
    one or more buildings. Notwithstanding our efforts to maintain
    business continuity, given that our headquarters and the largest
    concentration of our employees are in the New York metropolitan
    area, depending on the intensity and longevity of the event, a
    catastrophic event impacting our New York metropolitan area
    offices could very negatively affect our business. If a
    disruption occurs in one location and our employees in that
    location are unable to occupy our offices or communicate with or
    travel to other locations, our ability to service and interact
    with our clients may suffer, and we may not be able to
    successfully implement contingency plans that depend on
    communication or travel.

Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and
    transmission of confidential and other information in our
    computer systems and networks. Although we take protective
    measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant,
    our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to
    unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious
    code and other events that could have a security impact. If one
    or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize
    our or our clients  or counterparties  confidential
    and other information processed and stored in, and transmitted
    through, our computer systems and networks, or otherwise cause
    interruptions or malfunctions in our, our clients , our
    counterparties  or third parties  operations, which
    could result in significant losses or reputational damage. We
    may be required to expend significant additional resources to
    modify our protective measures or to investigate and remediate
    vulnerabilities or other exposures, and we may be subject to
    litigation and financial losses that are either not insured
    against or not fully covered through any insurance maintained by
    us.

We routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and
    proprietary information by email and other electronic means. We
    have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service
    providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop
    secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have, and may be
    unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our
    clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other
    third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third
    parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the
    confidentiality of the information. An interception, misuse or
    mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information
    being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service
    provider, counterparty or other third party could result in
    legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm.

Conflicts of
    interest are increasing and a failure to appropriately identify
    and deal with conflicts of interest could adversely affect our
    businesses.   

As we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client
    base, we increasingly must address potential conflicts of
    interest, including situations where our services to a
    particular client or our own investments or other interests
    conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of
    another client, as well as situations where one or more of our
    businesses have access to material
     non-public 
    information that may not be shared with other businesses within
    the firm and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity
    with which we also have an advisory or other relationship. In
    addition, our status as a bank holding company subjects us to
    heightened regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the
    Federal Reserve Board with respect to transactions between GS
    Bank USA and entities that are or could be seen as affiliates of
    ours.

We have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to
    identify and address conflicts of interest, including those
    designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among
    our businesses. However, appropriately identifying and dealing
    with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our
    reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be
    damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into
    transactions in which such a conflict might arise may be
    affected if we fail, or appear to fail, to identify and deal
    appropriately with conflicts of interest. In addition, potential
    or perceived conflicts could give rise to litigation or
    regulatory enforcement actions.

36

Table of Contents   

Substantial
    legal liability or significant regulatory action against us
    could have material adverse financial effects or cause us
    significant reputational harm, which in turn could seriously
    harm our business prospects.   

We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the
    volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in
    litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial
    institutions remain high. See  Legal Proceedings  in
    Part I, Item 3 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are
    involved. Our experience has been that legal claims by customers
    and clients increase in a market downturn and that
    employment-related claims increase in periods when we have
    reduced the total number of employees.

There have been a number of highly publicized cases involving
    fraud or other misconduct by employees in the financial services
    industry in recent years, and we run the risk that employee
    misconduct could occur. It is not always possible to deter or
    prevent employee misconduct and the precautions we take to
    prevent and detect this activity have not been and may not be
    effective in all cases.

The growth of
    electronic trading and the introduction of new trading
    technology may adversely affect our business and may increase
    competition.   

Technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. The
    growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new
    technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with
    new challenges. Securities, futures and options transactions are
    increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems
    and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears
    that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue
    and probably accelerate. Some of these alternative trading
    systems compete with our trading businesses, including our
    exchange-based
     market-making 
    businesses, and we may experience continued competitive
    pressures in these and other areas. In addition, the increased
    use by our clients of
     low-cost 
    electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to
    trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and
    spreads. As our clients increasingly use our systems to trade
    directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of
    their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. We
    have invested significant resources into the development of
    electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but
    there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these
    systems will yield an adequate return on our investment,
    particularly given the relatively lower commissions arising from
    electronic trades.

Our
    commodities activities, particularly our power generation
    interests and our physical commodities businesses, subject us to
    extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and
    environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us
    to significant liabilities and costs.   

We engage in, or invest in entities that engage in, the
    production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of
    numerous commodities, including crude oil, oil products, natural
    gas, electric power, agricultural products, natural gas, metals
    (base and precious), minerals (including uranium), emission
    credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related
    products and indices. These activities subject us to extensive
    and evolving federal, state and local energy, environmental and
    other governmental laws and regulations worldwide, including
    environmental laws and regulations relating to, among others,
    air quality, water quality, waste management, transportation of
    hazardous substances, natural resources, site remediation and
    health and safety. Additionally, rising climate change concerns
    can lead to additional regulation that may increase the
    operating costs and profitability of our investments.

We may incur substantial costs in complying with current or
    future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-related
    businesses and investments, particularly electric power
    generation, transportation and storage of physical commodities
    and wholesale sales and trading of electricity and natural gas.
    Compliance with these laws and regulations could require us to
    commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring,
    installation of pollution control equipment, renovation of
    storage

37

Table of Contents   

facilities or transport vessels, payment of emission fees and
    carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding of,
    permits and licenses. Our commodities-related activities are
    also subject to the risk of unforeseen or catastrophic events,
    many of which are outside of our control, including breakdown or
    failure of power generation equipment, transmission lines,
    transport vessels, storage facilities or other equipment or
    processes or other mechanical malfunctions, fires, leaks, spills
    or release of hazardous substances, performance below expected
    levels of output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, natural
    disasters or other hostile or catastrophic events. In addition,
    we rely on third party suppliers or service providers to perform
    their contractual obligations and any failure on their part,
    including the failure to obtain raw materials at reasonable
    prices or to safely transport or store commodities could
    adversely affect our business. In addition, we may not be able
    to obtain insurance to cover some of these risks and the
    insurance that we have may be inadequate to cover our losses.

The occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from
    performing under our agreements with clients, may impair our
    operations or financial results and may result in litigation,
    regulatory action, negative publicity or other reputational harm.

In conducting
    our businesses around the world, we are subject to political,
    economic, legal, operational and other risks that are inherent
    in operating in many countries.   

In conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our
    global operations, we are subject to risks of possible
    nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital
    controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental
    actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or acts of
    terrorism. In many countries, the laws and regulations
    applicable to the securities and financial services industries
    and many of the transactions in which we are involved are
    uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to
    determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market.
    Any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in
    compliance with the application of local laws in a particular
    market or our failure to develop effective working relationships
    with local regulators could have a significant and negative
    effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our
    reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk
    that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable
    in all cases.

Our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into
    new regions throughout the world, including emerging markets,
    and we expect this trend to continue. Various emerging market
    countries have experienced severe economic and financial
    disruptions, including significant devaluations of their
    currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign debt,
    capital and currency exchange controls, and low or negative
    growth rates in their economies, as well as military activity or
    acts of terrorism. The possible effects of any of these
    conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and
    increased volatility in financial markets generally.

We may incur
    losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic events,
    including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks or
    natural disasters.   

The occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including
    the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency
    (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency),
    terrorist attacks or natural disasters, could create economic
    and financial disruptions, could lead to operational
    difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair
    our ability to manage our businesses, and could expose our
    insurance businesses to significant losses.

Item 1B.  Unresolved
    Staff Comments  

There are no material unresolved written comments that were
    received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end
    of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports
    under the Exchange Act.

38

Table of Contents   

Item 2.    

Properties  

Our principal executive offices are located at 200 West Street,
    New York, New York and comprise approximately 2.1 million
    gross square feet. The building is located on a parcel leased
    from Battery Park City Authority pursuant to a ground lease.
    Under the lease, Battery Park City Authority holds title to all
    improvements, including the office building, subject to Goldman
    Sachs  right of exclusive possession and use until
    June 2069, the expiration date of the lease. Under the
    terms of the ground lease, we made a lump sum ground rent
    payment in June 2007 of $161 million for rent through
    the term of the lease.

We have offices at 30 Hudson Street in Jersey City, New Jersey,
    which we own and which include approximately 1.6 million
    gross square feet of office space, and we own over 700,000
    square feet of additional commercial space spread among four
    locations in New York and New Jersey.

We have additional offices in the U.S. and elsewhere in the
    Americas, which together comprise approximately 2.8 million
    rentable square feet of leased space.

In Europe, the Middle East and Africa, we have offices that
    total approximately 2.2 million rentable square feet. Our
    European headquarters is located in London at Peterborough
    Court, pursuant to a lease expiring in 2026. In total, we lease
    approximately 1.6 million rentable square feet in London
    through various leases, relating to various properties.

In Asia, we have offices that total approximately
    1.6 million rentable square feet. Our headquarters in this
    region are in Tokyo, at the Roppongi Hills Mori Tower, and in
    Hong Kong, at the Cheung Kong Center. In Tokyo, we currently
    lease approximately 440,000 rentable square feet, the majority
    of which will expire in 2018. In Hong Kong, we currently lease
    approximately 310,000 rentable square feet under lease
    agreements, the majority of which will expire in 2011.

Our occupancy expenses include costs associated with office
    space held in excess of our current requirements. This excess
    space, the cost of which is charged to earnings as incurred, is
    being held for potential growth or to replace currently occupied
    space. We regularly evaluate our current and future space
    capacity in relation to current and projected staffing levels.
    In 2009, we incurred exit costs of $61 million related to
    our office space. We may incur exit costs in the future to the
    extent we (i) reduce our space capacity or (ii) commit
    to, or occupy, new properties in the locations in which we
    operate and, consequently, dispose of existing space that had
    been held for potential growth. These exit costs may be material
    to our results of operations in a given period.

39

Table of Contents   

Item 3.    

Legal
    Proceedings  

We are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and
    arbitration proceedings (including those described below)
    concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of our
    businesses. We believe, based on currently available
    information, that the results of such proceedings, in the
    aggregate, will not have a material adverse effect on our
    financial condition, but might be material to our operating
    results for any particular period, depending, in part, upon the
    operating results for such period. Given the range of litigation
    and investigations presently under way, our litigation expenses
    can be expected to remain high.

IPO Process
    Matters  

Group Inc. and GS Co. are among the numerous financial
    services companies that have been named as defendants in a
    variety of lawsuits alleging improprieties in the process by
    which those companies participated in the underwriting of public
    offerings in recent years.

GS Co. has, together with other underwriters in certain
    offerings as well as the issuers and certain of their officers
    and directors, been named as a defendant in a number of related
    lawsuits filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
    District of New York alleging, among other things, that the
    prospectuses for the offerings violated the federal securities
    laws by failing to disclose the existence of alleged
    arrangements tying allocations in certain offerings to higher
    customer brokerage commission rates as well as purchase orders
    in the aftermarket, and that the alleged arrangements resulted
    in market manipulation. On April 2, 2009, the parties
    entered into a definitive settlement agreement, and by a
    decision dated October 5, 2009, the district court
    approved the proposed settlement. On October 23, 2009,
    certain objectors filed a petition in the U.S. Court of
    Appeals for the Second Circuit seeking review of the district
    court s certification of a class for purposes of the
    settlement, and various objectors have appealed certain aspects
    of the settlement s approval.

GS Co. is among numerous underwriting firms named as
    defendants in a number of complaints filed commencing
    October 3, 2007, in the U.S. District Court for
    the Western District of Washington alleging violations of the
    federal securities laws in connection with offerings of
    securities for 16 issuers during 1999 and 2000. The complaints
    generally assert that the underwriters, together with each
    issuer s directors, officers and principal shareholders,
    entered into purported agreements to tie allocations in the
    offerings to increased brokerage commissions and aftermarket
    purchase orders. The complaints further allege that, based upon
    these and other purported agreements, the underwriters violated
    the reporting provisions of, and are subject to
     short-swing 
    profit recovery under, Section 16 of the Exchange Act. On
    October 29, 2007, the cases were reassigned to a
    single district judge. The district court granted
    defendants  motions to dismiss by a decision dated
    March 12, 2009. On March 31, 2009, plaintiff
    appealed from the dismissal order.

GS Co. has been named as a defendant in an action commenced
    on May 15, 2002 in New York Supreme Court, New York
    County, by an official committee of unsecured creditors on
    behalf of eToys, Inc., alleging that the firm intentionally
    underpriced eToys, Inc. s initial public offering. The
    action seeks, among other things, unspecified compensatory
    damages resulting from the alleged lower amount of offering
    proceeds. The court granted GS Co. s motion to dismiss
    as to five of the claims; plaintiff appealed from the dismissal
    of the five claims, and GS Co. appealed from the denial of
    its motion as to the remaining claim. The New York Appellate
    Division, First Department affirmed in part and reversed in part
    the lower court s ruling on the firm s motion to
    dismiss, permitting all claims to proceed except the claim for
    fraud, as to which the appellate court granted leave to replead,
    and the New York Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed
    in part, dismissing claims for breach of contract, professional
    malpractice and unjust enrichment, but permitting claims for
    breach of fiduciary duty and fraud to continue. On remand to the
    lower court, GS Co. moved to dismiss the surviving claims
    or, in the alternative, for summary judgment, but the motion was
    denied by a decision dated March 21, 2006, and the
    court subsequently permitted plaintiff to amend the complaint
    again.

40

Table of Contents   

Group Inc. and certain of its affiliates have, together
    with various underwriters in certain offerings, received
    subpoenas and requests for documents and information from
    various governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations
    in connection with investigations relating to the public
    offering process. Goldman Sachs has cooperated with these
    investigations.

World Online
    Litigation  

In March 2001, a Dutch shareholders association initiated
    legal proceedings for an unspecified amount of damages against
    GSI and others in Amsterdam District Court in connection with
    the initial public offering of World Online in March 2000,
    alleging misstatements and omissions in the offering materials
    and that the market was artificially inflated by improper public
    statements and stabilization activities. Goldman Sachs and ABN
    AMRO Rothschild served as joint global coordinators of the
    approximately  2.9 billion offering. GSI underwrote
    20,268,846 shares and GS Co. underwrote
    6,756,282 shares for a total offering price of
    approximately  1.16 billion.

The district court rejected the claims against GSI and ABN AMRO,
    but found World Online liable in an amount to be determined. On
    appeal, by a decision dated May 3, 2007, the
    Netherlands Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed in
    part the decision of the district court holding that certain of
    the alleged disclosure deficiencies were actionable as to GSI
    and ABN AMRO. On further appeal, the Netherlands Supreme Court
    on November 27, 2009 affirmed the rulings of the Court
    of Appeals, except found certain additional aspects of the
    offering materials actionable and held that GSI and ABN AMRO
    could potentially be held responsible for certain public
    statements and press releases by World Online and its former CEO.

Research
    Independence Matters  

GS Co. is one of several investment firms that have been
    named as defendants in substantively identical purported class
    actions filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
    District of New York alleging violations of the federal
    securities laws in connection with research coverage of certain
    issuers and seeking compensatory damages. In one such action,
    relating to coverage of RSL Communications, Inc. commenced on
    July 15, 2003, GS Co. s motion to dismiss
    the complaint was denied. The district court granted the
    plaintiffs  motion for class certification and the
    U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, by an order
    dated January 26, 2007, vacated the district
    court s class certification and remanded for
    reconsideration. By a decision dated August 4, 2009,
    the district court granted plaintiffs  renewed motion
    seeking class certification. Defendants  petition with the
    appellate court seeking review of the certification ruling was
    denied on January 25, 2010.

A purported shareholder derivative action was filed in New York
    Supreme Court, New York County on June 13, 2003
    against Group Inc. and its board of directors, which, as
    amended on March 3, 2004 and June 14, 2005,
    alleges that the directors breached their fiduciary duties in
    connection with the firm s research as well as the
    firm s IPO allocations practices.

Group Inc., GS Co. and Henry M. Paulson, Jr., the
    former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Group Inc.,
    have been named as defendants in a purported class action filed
    on July 18, 2003 on behalf of purchasers of
    Group Inc. stock from July 1, 1999 through
    May 7, 2002. The complaint, now pending in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York,
    alleges that defendants breached their fiduciary duties and
    violated the federal securities laws in connection with the
    firm s research activities and seeks, among other things,
    unspecified compensatory damages
     and/or 
    rescission. The district court granted the defendants 
    motion to dismiss with leave to amend, and plaintiffs filed a
    second amended complaint. In a decision dated
    September 29, 2006 on defendants  renewed motion
    to dismiss, the federal district court granted
    Mr. Paulson s motion with leave to replead but
    otherwise denied the motion. Plaintiffs  motion for class
    certification was granted by a decision dated
    September 15, 2008. The Goldman Sachs defendants 
    petition for review of the district court s class
    certification ruling was denied by the U.S. Court of
    Appeals for the Second Circuit on March 19, 2009.

41

Table of Contents   

Group Inc. and its affiliates, together with other
    financial services firms, have received requests for information
    from various governmental agencies and self-regulatory
    organizations in connection with their review of research
    related issues. Goldman Sachs has cooperated with these
    requests. See  Business   Regulation  
    Regulations Applicable in and Outside the United States  in
    Part I, Item 1 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of our global research settlement.

Enron Litigation
    Matters  

Goldman Sachs affiliates are defendants in certain actions
    relating to Enron Corp., which filed for protection under the
    U.S. bankruptcy laws on December 2, 2001.

GS Co. and co-managing underwriters have been named as
    defendants in certain purported securities class and individual
    actions commenced beginning on December 14, 2001 in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Texas and
    California Superior Court brought by purchasers of $255,875,000
    (including over-allotments) of Exchangeable Notes of Enron Corp.
    in August 1999. The notes were mandatorily exchangeable in 2002
    into shares of Enron Oil   Gas Company held by Enron
    Corp. or their cash equivalent. The complaints also name as
    defendants Group Inc. as well as certain past and present
    officers and directors of Enron Corp. and the company s
    outside accounting firm. The complaints generally allege
    violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal
    securities laws
     and/or  state
    law, and seek compensatory damages. GS Co. underwrote
    $127,937,500 (including over-allotments) principal amount of the
    notes. Group Inc. and GS Co. moved to dismiss the class
    action complaint in the Texas federal court and the motion was
    granted as to Group Inc. but denied as to GS Co. One of the
    plaintiffs moved for class certification, and GS Co. moved
    for judgment on the pleadings against all plaintiffs. The
    parties subsequently reached a settlement pursuant to which
    GS Co. has contributed $11.5 million to a settlement
    fund, and the district court approved the settlement on
    February 4, 2010. (Plaintiffs in various consolidated
    actions relating to Enron Corp. entered into a settlement with
    Banc of America Securities LLC on July 2, 2004 and with
    Citigroup, Inc. on June 10, 2005, including with respect to
    claims relating to the Exchangeable Notes offering, as to which
    affiliates of those settling defendants were two of the three
    underwriters (together with GS Co.).)

Several funds which allegedly sustained investment losses of
    approximately $125 million in connection with secondary
    market purchases of the Exchangeable Notes as well as Zero
    Coupon Convertible Notes of Enron Corp. commenced an action in
    the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
    York on January 16, 2002. As amended, the lawsuit
    names as defendants the underwriters of the August 1999
    offering and the company s outside accounting firm, and
    alleges violations of the disclosure requirements of the federal
    securities laws, fraud and misrepresentation. The Judicial Panel
    on Multidistrict Litigation has transferred that action to the
    Texas federal district court for purposes of coordinated or
    consolidated pretrial proceedings with other matters relating to
    Enron Corp. GS Co. moved to dismiss the complaint and the
    motion was granted in part and denied in part. The district
    court granted the funds  motion for leave to file a second
    amended complaint on January 22, 2007.

Montana Power
    Litigation  

GS Co. and Group Inc. have been named as defendants in
    two actions relating to financial advisory work rendered to
    Montana Power Company. On November 13, 2009, all
    parties entered into a settlement and the settlement was
    preliminarily approved on February 10, 2010. A final
    hearing has been scheduled for May 20, 2010 to May 21,
    2010.

42

Table of Contents   

One of the actions is a purported class action commenced
    originally on October 1, 2001 in Montana District
    Court, Second Judicial District on behalf of former shareholders
    of Montana Power Company. The complaint generally alleges that
    Montana Power Company violated Montana law by failing to procure
    shareholder approval of certain corporate strategies and
    transactions, that the company s board breached its
    fiduciary duties in pursuing those strategies and transactions,
    and that GS Co. aided and abetted the board s breaches
    and rendered negligent advice in its role as financial advisor
    to the company. The complaint seeks, among other things,
    compensatory damages. In addition to GS Co. and
    Group Inc., the defendants include Montana Power Company,
    certain of its officers and directors, an outside law firm for
    the Montana Power Company, and certain companies that purchased
    assets from Montana Power Company and its affiliates. The
    Montana state court denied the Goldman Sachs defendants 
    motions to dismiss. Following the bankruptcies of certain
    defendants in the action, defendants removed the action to
    federal court, the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Montana, Butte Division.

On October 26, 2004, a creditors committee of Touch
    America Holdings, Inc. brought the other action against
    GS Co., Group Inc., and a former outside law firm for
    Montana Power Company in Montana District Court, Second Judicial
    District. The complaint asserts that Touch America Holdings,
    Inc. is the successor to Montana Power Corporation and alleges
    substantially the same claims as in the purported class action.
    Defendants removed the action to federal court. Defendants moved
    to dismiss the complaint, but the motion was denied by a
    decision dated June 10, 2005.

Adelphia
    Communications Fraudulent Conveyance Litigation  

GS Co. is among numerous entities named as defendants in
    two adversary proceedings commenced in the U.S. Bankruptcy
    Court for the Southern District of New York, one on
    July 6, 2003 by a creditors committee, and the second
    on or about July 31, 2003 by an equity committee of
    Adelphia Communications, Inc. Those proceedings have now been
    consolidated in a single amended complaint filed by the Adelphia
    Recovery Trust on October 31, 2007. The complaint
    seeks, among other things, to recover, as fraudulent
    conveyances, payments made allegedly by Adelphia Communications,
    Inc. and its affiliates to certain brokerage firms, including
    approximately $62.9 million allegedly paid to GS Co.,
    in respect of margin calls made in the ordinary course of
    business on accounts owned by members of the family that
    formerly controlled Adelphia Communications, Inc. By a decision
    dated May 4, 2009, the district court denied
    GS Co. s motion to dismiss the claim related to margin
    payments. GS Co. moved for reconsideration, and by a
    decision dated June 15, 2009, the district court
    granted the motion insofar as requiring plaintiff to amend its
    complaint to specify the source of the margin payments to
    GS Co. By a decision dated July 30, 2009, the
    district court held that the sufficiency of the amended claim
    would be determined at the summary judgment stage.

Specialist
    Matters  

Spear, Leeds   Kellogg Specialists LLC (SLKS) and
    certain affiliates have received requests for information from
    various governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations
    as part of an
     industry-wide 
    investigation relating to activities of floor specialists in
    recent years. Goldman Sachs has cooperated with the requests.

On March 30, 2004, certain specialist firms on the
    NYSE, including SLKS, without admitting or denying the
    allegations, entered into a final global settlement with the SEC
    and the NYSE covering certain activities during the years 1999
    through 2003. The SLKS settlement involves, among other things,
    (i) findings by the SEC and the NYSE that SLKS violated
    certain federal securities laws and NYSE rules, and in some
    cases failed to supervise certain individual specialists, in
    connection with trades that allegedly disadvantaged customer
    orders, (ii) a cease and desist order against SLKS,
    (iii) a censure of SLKS, (iv) SLKS  agreement to
    pay an aggregate of $45.3 million in disgorgement and a
    penalty to be used to compensate customers, (v) certain
    undertakings with respect to SLKS  systems and procedures,
    and (v) SLKS  retention of an independent consultant
    to review and evaluate

43

Table of Contents   

certain of SLKS  compliance systems, policies and
    procedures. Comparable findings were made and sanctions imposed
    in the settlements with other specialist firms. The settlement
    did not resolve the related private civil actions against SLKS
    and other firms or regulatory investigations involving
    individuals or conduct on other exchanges.

SLKS, Spear, Leeds   Kellogg, L.P. and Group Inc.
    are among numerous defendants named in purported class actions
    brought beginning in October 2003 on behalf of investors in
    the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
    York alleging violations of the federal securities laws and
    state common law in connection with NYSE floor specialist
    activities. The actions seek unspecified compensatory damages,
    restitution and disgorgement on behalf of purchasers and sellers
    of unspecified securities between October 17, 1998 and
    October 15, 2003. Plaintiffs filed a consolidated
    amended complaint on September 16, 2004. The
    defendants  motion to dismiss the amended complaint was
    granted in part and denied in part by a decision dated
    December 13, 2005. By a decision dated
    March 14, 2009, the district court granted
    plaintiffs  motion for class certification. On
    April 13, 2009, defendants filed a petition with the
    U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit seeking review
    of the certification ruling. By an order dated
    October 1, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for
    the Second Circuit declined to review the certification ruling.
    The specialist defendants filed a petition for rehearing
     and/or 
    rehearing en banc on October 15, 2009.

Treasury
    Matters  

On September 4, 2003, the SEC announced that
    GS Co. had settled an administrative proceeding arising
    from certain trading in U.S. Treasury bonds over an
    approximately eight-minute period after GS Co. received an
    October 31, 2001 telephone call from a Washington,
    D.C.-based political consultant concerning a forthcoming
    Treasury refunding announcement. Without admitting or denying
    the allegations, GS Co. consented to the entry of an order
    that, among other things, (i) censured GS Co.;
    (ii) directed GS Co. to cease and desist from
    committing or causing any violations of
    Sections 15(c)(1)(A) and (C) and 15(f) of, and
     Rule 15c1-2 
    under, the Exchange Act; (iii) ordered GS Co. to pay
    disgorgement and prejudgment interest in the amount of
    $1,742,642, and a civil monetary penalty of $5 million; and
    (iv) directed GS Co. to conduct a review of its
    policies and procedures and adopt, implement and maintain
    policies and procedures consistent with the order and that
    review. GS Co. also undertook to pay $2,562,740 in
    disgorgement and interest relating to certain trading in
    U.S. Treasury bond futures during the same eight-minute
    period.

GS Co. has been named as a defendant in a purported class
    action filed on March 10, 2004 in the
    U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois
    on behalf of holders of short positions in
     30-year 
    U.S. Treasury futures and options on the morning of
    October 31, 2001. The complaint alleges that the firm
    purchased
     30-year 
    bonds and futures prior to the Treasury s refunding
    announcement that morning based on
     non-public 
    information about that announcement, and that such purchases
    increased the costs of covering such short positions. The
    complaint also names as defendants the Washington, D.C.-based
    political consultant who allegedly was the source of the
    information, a former GS Co. economist who allegedly
    received the information, and another company and one of its
    employees who also allegedly received and traded on the
    information prior to its public announcement. The complaint
    alleges violations of the federal commodities and antitrust
    laws, as well as Illinois statutory and common law, and seeks,
    among other things, unspecified damages including treble damages
    under the antitrust laws. The district court dismissed the
    antitrust and Illinois state law claims but permitted the
    federal commodities law claims to proceed. Plaintiff s
    motion for class certification was denied by a decision dated
    August 22, 2008. GS Co. moved for summary
    judgment, and by a decision dated July 30, 2008, the
    district court granted the motion insofar as the remaining claim
    relates to the trading of treasury bonds, but denied the motion
    without prejudice to the extent the claim relates to trading of
    treasury futures. By a decision dated August 6, 2009,
    the federal district court denied GS Co. s motion for
    summary judgment as to the remaining claims. On
    October 13, 2009, the parties filed an offer of
    judgment and notice of acceptance with respect to
    plaintiff s individual claim. On
    December 11, 2009, the plaintiff purported to appeal
    with respect to the

44

Table of Contents   

district court s prior denial of class certification, and
    GS Co. moved to dismiss the appeal on
    January 25, 2010.

Mutual
    Fund Matters  

GS Co. and certain mutual fund affiliates have received
    subpoenas and requests for information from various governmental
    agencies and self-regulatory organizations including the SEC as
    part of the
     industry-wide 
    investigation relating to the practices of mutual funds and
    their customers. GS Co. and its affiliates have cooperated
    with such requests.

Refco Securities
    Litigation  

GS Co. and the other lead underwriters for the
    August 2005 initial public offering of
    26,500,000 shares of common stock of Refco Inc. are among
    the defendants in various putative class actions filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
    beginning in October 2005 by investors in Refco Inc. in
    response to certain publicly reported events that culminated in
    the October 17, 2005 filing by Refco Inc. and certain
    affiliates for protection under U.S. bankruptcy laws. The
    actions, which have been consolidated, allege violations of the
    disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws and seek
    compensatory damages. In addition to the underwriters, the
    consolidated complaint names as defendants Refco Inc. and
    certain of its affiliates, certain officers and directors of
    Refco Inc., Thomas H. Lee Partners, L.P. (which held a majority
    of Refco Inc. s equity through certain funds it manages),
    Grant Thornton (Refco Inc. s outside auditor), and BAWAG
    P.S.K. Bank fur Arbeit und Wirtschaft und Osterreichische
    Postsparkasse Aktiengesellschaft (BAWAG). Lead plaintiffs
    entered into a settlement with BAWAG, which was approved
    following certain amendments on June 29, 2007.
    GS Co. underwrote 5,639,200 shares of common stock at
    a price of $22 per share for a total offering price of
    approximately $124 million.

GS Co. has, together with other underwriters of the Refco
    Inc. initial public offering, received requests for information
    from various governmental agencies and self-regulatory
    organizations. GS Co. is cooperating with those requests.

Short-Selling 
    Litigation  

Group Inc., GS Co. and Goldman Sachs
    Execution   Clearing, L.P. are among the numerous
    financial services firms that have been named as defendants in a
    purported class action filed on April 12, 2006 in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
    by customers who engaged in
     short-selling 
    transactions in equity securities since
    April 12, 2000. The amended complaint generally
    alleges that the customers were charged fees in connection with
    the short sales but that the applicable securities were not
    necessarily borrowed to effect delivery, resulting in failed
    deliveries, and that the defendants conspired to set a minimum
    threshold borrowing rate for securities designated as hard to
    borrow. The complaint asserts a claim under the federal
    antitrust laws, as well as claims under the New York Business
    Law and common law, and seeks treble damages as well as
    injunctive relief. Defendants  motion to dismiss the
    complaint was granted by a decision dated
    December 20, 2007. On December 3, 2009, the
    dismissal was affirmed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
    Second Circuit.

Fannie Mae
    Litigation  

GS Co.  was added as a defendant in an amended
    complaint filed on August 14, 2006 in a purported
    class action pending in the U.S. District Court for the
    District of Columbia. The complaint asserts violations of the
    federal securities laws generally arising from allegations
    concerning Fannie Mae s accounting practices in connection
    with certain Fannie Mae-sponsored REMIC transactions that were
    allegedly arranged by GS Co. The other defendants include
    Fannie Mae, certain of its past and present officers and
    directors, and accountants. By a decision dated
    May 8, 2007, the district court granted
    GS Co. s motion to dismiss the claim against it. The
    time for an appeal will not begin to run until disposition of
    the claims against other defendants.

45

Table of Contents   

Beginning in September 2006, Group Inc.
     and/or 
    GS Co. were added named as defendants in four Fannie Mae
    shareholder derivative actions in the U.S. District Court
    for the District of Columbia. The complaints generally allege
    that the Goldman Sachs defendants aided and abetted a breach of
    fiduciary duty by Fannie Mae s directors and officers in
    connection with certain Fannie Mae-sponsored REMIC transactions
    and one of the complaints also asserts a breach of contract
    claim. The complaints also name as defendants certain former
    officers and directors of Fannie Mae as well as an outside
    accounting firm. The complaints seek,  inter alia ,
    unspecified damages. The Goldman Sachs defendants were dismissed
    without prejudice from the first filed of these actions, and the
    remaining claims in that action were dismissed for failure to
    make a demand on Fannie Mae s board of directors. That
    dismissal has been affirmed on appeal. The remaining three
    actions have been stayed by the district court.

Compensation
    Related Litigation  

On March 16, 2007, Group Inc., its board of
    directors, executive officers and members of its management
    committee were named as defendants in a purported shareholder
    derivative action in the U.S. District Court for the
    Eastern District of New York challenging the sufficiency of the
    firm s February 21, 2007 Proxy Statement and the
    compensation of certain employees. The complaint generally
    alleges that the Proxy Statement undervalues stock option awards
    disclosed therein, that the recipients received excessive awards
    because the proper methodology was not followed, and that the
    firm s senior management received excessive compensation,
    constituting corporate waste. The complaint seeks, among other
    things, an injunction against the 2007 Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders, the voiding of any election of directors in the
    absence of an injunction and an equitable accounting for the
    allegedly excessive compensation. On July 20, 2007,
    defendants moved to dismiss the complaint, and the motion was
    granted by an order dated December 18, 2008. Plaintiff
    appealed on January 13, 2009, and the dismissal was
    affirmed by the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second
    Circuit on December 14, 2009.

On January 17, 2008, Group Inc., its board of
    directors, executive officers and members of its management
    committee were named as defendants in a related purported
    shareholder derivative action brought by the same plaintiff in
    the same court predicting that the firm s 2008 Proxy
    Statement will violate the federal securities laws by
    undervaluing certain stock option awards and alleging that
    senior management received excessive compensation for 2007. The
    complaint seeks, among other things, an injunction against the
    distribution of the 2008 Proxy Statement, the voiding of any
    election of directors in the absence of an injunction and an
    equitable accounting for the allegedly excessive compensation.
    On January 25, 2008, the plaintiff moved for a
    preliminary injunction to prevent the 2008 Proxy Statement from
    using options valuations that the plaintiff alleges are
    incorrect and to require the amendment of SEC Form 4s filed
    by certain of the executive officers named in the complaint to
    reflect the stock option valuations alleged by the plaintiff.
    Plaintiff s motion for a preliminary injunction was denied
    by order dated February 14, 2008, plaintiff appealed
    and twice moved to expedite the appeal, with the motions being
    denied by orders dated February 29, 2008 and
    April 3, 2008. The appeal was dismissed on
    February 23, 2009. On February 13, 2009, the
    plaintiff filed an amended complaint, which added purported
    direct
     (i.e., non-derivative) 
    claims based on substantially the same theory. Defendants moved
    to dismiss on April 6, 2009. On
    April 15, 2009, defendants moved to enjoin plaintiff
    and his counsel from filing or prosecuting similar claims in
    other courts. Adjudication of the motion has been adjourned
    until resolution of the pending dismissal and remand motions in
    this and the 2009 action, subject to plaintiff s agreement
    not to bring other related actions.

On March 24, 2009, the same plaintiff filed an action
    in New York Supreme Court, New York County against
    Group Inc., its directors and certain senior executives
    alleging violation of Delaware statutory and common law in
    connection with substantively similar allegations regarding
    stock option awards. On April 14, 2009,
    Group Inc. removed the action to the U.S. District
    Court for the Southern District of New York and has moved to
    transfer to the district court judge presiding over the other

46

Table of Contents   

actions described in this section and to dismiss. The action has
    been transferred on consent to the U.S. District Court for
    the Eastern District of New York, where defendants moved to
    dismiss on April 23, 2009. On July 10, 2009,
    plaintiff moved to remand the action to state court.

Purported shareholder derivative actions have been commenced in
    New York Supreme Court, New York County and Delaware Court of
    Chancery beginning on December 14, 2009, alleging that
    Group Inc. s board of directors breached its fiduciary
    duties in connection with setting compensation levels for the
    year 2009 and that such levels are excessive. The complaints
    name as defendants Group Inc., its board of directors and
    certain senior executives. The complaints seek,  inter
    alia , damages, restitution of certain compensation paid, and
    an order requiring the firm to adopt corporate reforms.

Group Inc. and certain of its affiliates have received
    inquiries from various governmental agencies and self-regulatory
    organizations regarding the firm s compensation processes.
    The firm is cooperating with the requests.

Group Inc. s board of directors has received several
    demand letters from shareholders relating to compensation
    matters, including demands that Group Inc. s board of
    directors investigates compensation awards over recent years,
    take steps to recoup alleged excessive compensation, and adopt
    certain reforms. After considering the demand letters,
    Group Inc. s board of directors rejected the demands.

Mortgage-Related 
    Matters  

GS Co. and certain of its affiliates, together with other
    financial services firms, have received requests for information
    from various governmental agencies and self-regulatory
    organizations relating to subprime mortgages, and
    securitizations, collateralized debt obligations and synthetic
    products related to subprime mortgages. GS Co. and its
    affiliates are cooperating with the requests.

GS Co., along with numerous other financial institutions,
    is a defendant in an action brought by the City of Cleveland
    alleging that the defendants  activities in connection with
    securitizations of subprime mortgages created a  public
    nuisance  in Cleveland. The action is pending in the
    U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, and
    the complaint seeks, among other things, unspecified
    compensatory damages. The district court granted
    defendants  motion to dismiss by a decision dated
    May 15, 2009. The City appealed on
    May 18, 2009.

GS Co., Goldman Sachs Mortgage Company and GS Mortgage
    Securities Corp. and three current or former Goldman Sachs
    employees are defendants in a purported class action commenced
    on December 11, 2008 in the U.S. District Court
    for the Southern District of New York brought on behalf of
    purchasers of various mortgage pass-through certificates and
     asset-backed 
    certificates issued by various securitization trusts in 2007 and
    underwritten by GS Co. The second amended complaint
    generally alleges that the registration statement and prospectus
    supplements for the certificates violated the federal securities
    laws, and seeks unspecified compensatory damages and rescission
    or recessionary damages. On December 19, 2009,
    defendants moved to dismiss the second amended complaint, and
    the motion was granted on January 28, 2010 with leave
    to replead certain claims.

Group Inc., GS Co., Goldman Sachs Mortgage Company and
    GS Mortgage Securities Corp. are among the defendants in a
    separate putative class action commenced on
    February 6, 2009 in the U.S. District Court for
    the Southern District of New York brought on behalf of
    purchasers of various mortgage pass-through certificates and
     asset-backed 
    certificates issued by various securitization trusts in 2006 and
    underwritten by GS Co. The other defendants include three
    current or former Goldman Sachs employees and various rating
    agencies. The second amended complaint generally alleges that
    the registration statement and prospectus supplements for the
    certificates violated the federal securities laws, and seeks
    unspecified compensatory and rescissionary damages. On
    November 2, 2009, defendants moved to dismiss the
    second amended complaint.

47

Table of Contents   

Auction Products
    Matters  

On August 21, 2008, GS Co. entered into a
    settlement in principle with the Office of Attorney General of
    the State of New York and the Illinois Securities Department (on
    behalf of the North American Securities Administrators
    Association) regarding auction rate securities. On
    June 2, 2009, GS Co. entered into an Assurance of
    Discontinuance with the Office of Attorney General of the State
    of New York. Under the agreement, Goldman Sachs agreed, among
    other things, (i) to offer to repurchase at par the
    outstanding auction rate securities that its private wealth
    management clients purchased through the firm prior to
    February 11, 2008, with the exception of those auction
    rate securities where auctions are clearing, (ii) to
    continue to work with issuers and other interested parties,
    including regulatory and governmental entities, to expeditiously
    provide liquidity solutions for institutional investors, and
    (iii) to pay a $22.5 million fine. The settlement,
    which is subject to definitive documentation and approval by the
    various states, other than New York, does not resolve any
    potential regulatory action by the SEC. On
    June 2, 2009, GS Co. entered into an Assurance of
    Discontinuance with the New York Attorney General.

On August 28, 2008, a putative shareholder derivative
    action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
    Southern District of New York naming as defendants
    Group Inc., its board of directors, and certain senior
    officers. The complaint alleges generally that
    Group Inc. s board of directors breached its fiduciary
    duties and committed mismanagement in connection with its
    oversight of auction rate securities marketing and trading
    operations, that certain individual defendants engaged in
    insider selling by selling shares of Group Inc., and that
    the firm s public filings were false and misleading in
    violation of the federal securities laws by failing to
    accurately disclose the alleged practices involving auction rate
    securities. The complaint seeks damages, injunctive and
    declaratory relief, restitution, and an order requiring the firm
    to adopt corporate reforms. On May 19, 2009, the
    district court granted defendants  motion to dismiss, and
    on July 20, 2009 denied plaintiffs  motion for
    reconsideration. Following the dismissal of the shareholder
    derivative action, the named plaintiff in such action sent
    Group Inc. s board of directors a letter demanding
    that Group Inc. s board of directors investigate the
    allegations set forth in the complaint. Group Inc. s
    board of directors is considering the demand letter.

On September 4, 2008, Group Inc. was named as a
    defendant, together with numerous other financial services
    firms, in two complaints filed in the U.S. District Court
    for the Southern District of New York alleging that the
    defendants engaged in a conspiracy to manipulate the auction
    securities market in violation of federal antitrust laws. The
    actions were filed, respectively, on behalf of putative classes
    of issuers of and investors in auction rate securities and seek,
    among other things, treble damages. Defendants  motion to
    dismiss was granted on January 26, 2010.

Private
     Equity-Sponsored 
    Acquisitions Litigation  

Group Inc. and  GS Capital Partners  are among
    numerous private equity firms and investment banks named as
    defendants in a federal antitrust action filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts in
    December 2007. As amended, the complaint generally alleges
    that the defendants have colluded to limit competition in
    bidding for private
     equity-sponsored 
    acquisitions of public companies, thereby resulting in lower
    prevailing bids and, by extension, less consideration for
    shareholders of those companies in violation of Section 1
    of the U.S. Sherman Antitrust Act and common law.
    Defendants moved to dismiss on August 27, 2008. By an
    order dated November 19, 2008, the district court
    dismissed claims relating to certain transactions that were the
    subject of releases as part of the settlement of shareholder
    actions challenging such transactions, and by an order dated
    December 15, 2008 otherwise denied the motion to
    dismiss.

Washington Mutual
    Securities Litigation  

GS Co. is among numerous underwriters named as defendants
    in a putative securities class action amended complaint filed on
    August 5, 2008 in the U.S. District Court for the
    Western District of Washington. As to the underwriters,
    plaintiffs allege that the offering documents in connection with

48

Table of Contents   

various securities offerings by Washington Mutual, Inc. failed
    to describe accurately the company s exposure to
     mortgage-related 
    activities in violation of the disclosure requirements of the
    federal securities laws. The defendants include past and present
    directors and officers of Washington Mutual, the company s
    former outside auditors, and numerous underwriters. By a
    decision dated May 15, 2009, the district court
    granted in part and denied in part the underwriter
    defendants  motion to dismiss, with leave to replead, and
    on June 15, 2009, plaintiffs filed an amended
    complaint. By a decision dated October 27, 2009, the
    federal district court granted and denied in part the
    underwriters  motion to dismiss.

GS Co. underwrote $788,500,000 principal amount of
    securities in the offerings at issue.

On September 25, 2008, the FDIC took over the primary
    banking operations of Washington Mutual, Inc. and then sold
    them. On September 27, 2008, Washington Mutual, Inc.
    filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the U.S. bankruptcy
    court in Delaware.

Britannia Bulk
    Securities Litigation  

GS Co. is among the underwriters named as defendants in
    numerous putative securities class actions filed beginning on
    November 6, 2008 in the U.S. District Court for
    the Southern District of New York arising from the
    June 17, 2008 $125 million initial public
    offering of common stock of Britannia Bulk Holdings, Inc. The
    complaints name as defendants the company, certain of its
    directors and officers, and the underwriters for the offering.
    Plaintiffs allege that the offering materials violated the
    disclosure requirements of the federal securities laws and seek
    compensatory damages. By a decision dated
    October 19, 2009, the district court granted the
    underwriter defendants  motion to dismiss, and plaintiffs
    have elected not to appeal, disposing of the matter.

GS Co. underwrote 3.75 million shares of common stock
    for a total offering price of $56.25 million. Britannia
    Bulk Holdings, Inc. and its principal operating subsidiary are
    subject to an insolvency proceedings in the U.K. courts.

IndyMac
    Pass-Through Certificates Litigation  

GS Co. is among numerous underwriters named as defendants
    in a putative securities class action filed on
    May 14, 2009 in the U.S. District Court for the
    Southern District of New York. As to the underwriters,
    plaintiffs allege that the offering documents in connection with
    various securitizations of
     mortgage-related 
    assets violated the disclosure requirements of the federal
    securities laws. The defendants include IndyMac-related entities
    formed in connection with the securitizations, the underwriters
    of the offerings, certain ratings agencies which evaluated the
    credit quality of the securities, and certain former officers
    and directors of IndyMac affiliates. On
    November 2, 2009, the underwriters moved to dismiss
    the complaint. The motion was granted in part on
    February 17, 2010 to the extent of dismissing claims based
    on offerings in which no plaintiff purchased, and the court
    reserved judgment as to the other aspects of the motion.

GS Co. underwrote approximately $2.94 billion
    principal amount of the securities at issue in the complaint. On
    July 11, 2008, IndyMac Bank was placed under a Federal
    Deposit Insurance Company receivership, and on
    July 31, 2008, IndyMac Bancorp, Inc. filed for
    Chapter 7 bankruptcy in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court in
    Los Angeles, California.

Credit
    Derivatives  

Group Inc. and certain of its affiliates have received
    inquiries from various governmental agencies and self-regulatory
    organizations regarding credit derivative instruments. The firm
    is cooperating with the requests.

Item 4.    

Submission
    of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders  

There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders
    during the fourth quarter of our fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2009.

49

Table of Contents   

EXECUTIVE
    OFFICERS OF THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

Set forth below are the name, age, present title, principal
    occupation and certain biographical information as of
    February 1, 2010 for our executive officers. All of
    our executive officers have been appointed by and serve at the
    pleasure of our board of directors.

Lloyd C.
    Blankfein, 55  

Mr. Blankfein has been our Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer since June 2006, and a director since
    April 2003. Previously, he had been our President and Chief
    Operating Officer since January 2004. Prior to that, from
    April 2002 until January 2004, he was a Vice Chairman
    of Goldman Sachs, with management responsibility for Goldman
    Sachs  Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Division
    (FICC) and Equities Division (Equities). Prior to becoming a
    Vice Chairman, he had served as co-head of FICC since its
    formation in 1997. From 1994 to 1997, he headed or co-headed the
    Currency and Commodities Division. Mr. Blankfein is not
    currently on the board of any public company other than Goldman
    Sachs. He is affiliated with certain
     non-profit 
    organizations, including as a member of the Dean s Advisory
    Board at Harvard Law School, the Harvard University Committee on
    University Resources and the Advisory Board of the Tsinghua
    University School of Economics and Management, an overseer of
    the Weill Medical College of Cornell University, and a
    co-chairman of the Partnership for New York City.

Alan M. Cohen,
    59  

Mr. Cohen has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs and our Global Head of Compliance since
    February 2004. From 1991 until January 2004, he was a
    partner in the law firm of O Melveny   Myers LLP.
    He is affiliated with certain
     non-profit 
    organizations, including as a board member of the New York Stem
    Cell Foundation.

Gary D. Cohn,
    49  

Mr. Cohn has been our President and Chief Operating Officer
    (or Co-Chief Operating Officer) and a director since
    June 2006. Previously, he had been the co-head of Goldman
    Sachs  global securities businesses since
    January 2004. He also had been the co-head of Equities
    since 2003 and the co-head of FICC since September 2002.
    From March 2002 to September 2002, he served as
     co-chief 
    operating officer of FICC. Prior to that, beginning in 1999,
    Mr. Cohn managed the FICC macro businesses. From 1996 to
    1999, he was the global head of Goldman Sachs  commodities
    business. Mr. Cohn is not currently on the board of any
    public company other than Goldman Sachs. He is affiliated with
    certain
     non-profit 
    organizations, including the Gilmour Academy, NYU Hospital, NYU
    Medical School, the Harlem Children s Zone and American
    University.

J. Michael Evans,
    52  

Mr. Evans has been a Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs since
    February 2008 and chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia since
    2004. Prior to becoming a Vice Chairman, he had served as global
     co-head  of
    Goldman Sachs  securities business since 2003. Previously,
    he had been co-head of the Equities Division since 2001.
    Mr. Evans is a board member of CASPER (Center for
    Advancement of Standards-based Physical Education Reform). He
    also serves as a trustee of the Bendheim Center for Finance at
    Princeton University.

Gregory K. Palm,
    61  

Mr. Palm has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs since May 1999, and our General Counsel and head or
    co-head of the Legal Department since May 1992.

50

Table of Contents   

Michael S.
    Sherwood, 44  

Mr. Sherwood has been a Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs
    since February 2008 and co-chief executive officer of
    Goldman Sachs International since 2005. Prior to becoming a Vice
    Chairman, he had served as global co-head of Goldman Sachs 
    securities business since 2003. Prior to that, he had been head
    of the Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Division in Europe
    since 2001.

Esta E. Stecher,
    52  

Ms. Stecher has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs and our General Counsel and co-head of the Legal
    Department since December 2000. From 1994 to 2000, she was
    head of the firm s Tax Department, over which she continues
    to have senior oversight responsibility. She is also a trustee
    of Columbia University.

David A. Viniar,
    54  

Mr. Viniar has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs and our Chief Financial Officer since May 1999. He
    has been the head of Operations, Technology, Finance and
    Services Division since December 2002. He was head of the
    Finance Division and co-head of Credit Risk Management and
    Advisory and Firmwide Risk from December 2001 to
    December 2002. Mr. Viniar was co-head of Operations,
    Finance and Resources from March 1999 to
    December 2001. He was Chief Financial Officer of The
    Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. from March 1999 to May 1999.
    From July 1998 until March 1999, he was Deputy Chief
    Financial Officer and from 1994 until July 1998, he was
    head of Finance, with responsibility for Controllers and
    Treasury. From 1992 to 1994, he was head of Treasury and prior
    to that was in the Structured Finance Department of Investment
    Banking. He also serves on the Board of Trustees of Union
    College.

John S. Weinberg,
    52  

Mr. Weinberg has been a Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs
    since June 2006. He has been
     co-head  of
    Goldman Sachs  Investment Banking Division since
    December 2002. From January 2002 to
    December 2002, he was co-head of the Investment Banking
    Division in the Americas. Prior to that, he served as co-head of
    the Investment Banking Services Department since 1997. He is
    affiliated with certain
     non-profit 
    organizations, including as a trustee of NewYork-Presbyterian
    Hospital, The Steppingstone Foundation, the Greenwich Country
    Day School and Community Anti-Drug Coalitions of America.
    Mr. Weinberg also serves on the Visiting Committee for
    Harvard Business School.

51

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.    

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

The principal market on which our common stock is traded is the
    NYSE. Information relating to the high and low sales prices per
    share of our common stock, as reported by the Consolidated Tape
    Association, for each full quarterly period during fiscal 2008
    and 2009 is set forth under the heading  Supplemental
    Financial Information   Common Stock Price Range 
    in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    As of February 12, 2010, there were 11,720 holders of
    record of our common stock.

During fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2009, dividends of $0.35 per
    common share were declared on December 17, 2007,
    March 17, 2008, June 16, 2008,
    September 15, 2008, April 13, 2009,
    July 13, 2009 and October 14, 2009. In
    addition, dividends of $0.35 per common share and $0.4666666 per
    common share were declared on January 19, 2010 and
    December 15, 2008, respectively. The dividend of
    $0.4666666 per common share was reflective of a four-month
    period (December 2008 through March 2009), due to the
    change in our fiscal year-end. The holders of our common stock
    share proportionately on a per share basis in all dividends and
    other distributions on common stock declared by our board of
    directors.

The declaration of dividends by Goldman Sachs is subject to the
    discretion of our board of directors. Our board of directors
    will take into account such matters as general business
    conditions, our financial results, capital requirements,
    contractual, legal and regulatory restrictions on the payment of
    dividends by us to our shareholders or by our subsidiaries to
    us, the effect on our debt ratings and such other factors as our
    board of directors may deem relevant. See
     Business   Regulation  in Part I,
    Item 1 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of potential regulatory limitations on our
    receipt of funds from our regulated subsidiaries and our payment
    of dividends to shareholders of Group Inc.

52

Table of Contents   

The table below sets forth the information with respect to
    purchases made by or on behalf of Group Inc. or any
     affiliated purchaser  (as defined in
     Rule 10b-18(a)(3) 
    under the Exchange Act), of our common stock during the fourth
    quarter of our fiscal year ended December 2009.

The repurchase program is effected primarily through regular
     open-market 
    purchases, the amounts and timing of which are determined
    primarily by our current and projected capital positions
    (i.e., comparisons of our desired level of capital to our
    actual level of capital) but which may also be influenced by
    general market conditions, the prevailing price and trading
    volumes of our common stock and regulatory restrictions. The
    total remaining authorization under the repurchase program was
    60,837,406 shares as of February 12, 2010; the
    repurchase program has no set expiration or termination date.

Since July 2008, we have not repurchased shares of our
    common stock in the open market other than repurchases of the
    type described in footnote (2). Any repurchase of our common
    stock requires approval by the Federal Reserve Board.

(2)   

Relates to repurchases of common
    stock by a
     broker-dealer 
    subsidiary to facilitate customer transactions in the ordinary
    course of business.

Information relating to compensation plans under which our
    equity securities are authorized for issuance is set forth in
    Part III, Item 12 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 6.    

Selected
    Financial Data  

The Selected Financial Data table is set forth under
    Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

53

Item 7.    

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and  
    Results of Operations  

INDEX  

54

Table of Contents   

Introduction  

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.) is a leading
    global investment banking, securities and investment management
    firm that provides a wide range of financial services to a
    substantial and diversified client base that includes
    corporations, financial institutions, governments and
     high-net-worth 
    individuals. Founded in 1869, the firm is headquartered in New
    York and maintains offices in London, Frankfurt, Tokyo, Hong
    Kong and other major financial centers around the world.

Our activities are divided into three segments:

Investment Banking.   We provide a broad range
    of investment banking services to a diverse group of
    corporations, financial institutions, investment funds,
    governments and individuals.

Trading and Principal Investments.   We
    facilitate client transactions with a diverse group of
    corporations, financial institutions, investment funds,
    governments and individuals through market making in, trading of
    and investing in fixed income and equity products, currencies,
    commodities and derivatives on these products. We also take
    proprietary positions on certain of these products. In addition,
    we engage in
     market-making 
    activities on equities and options exchanges, and we clear
    client transactions on major stock, options and futures
    exchanges worldwide. In connection with our merchant banking and
    other investing activities, we make principal investments
    directly and through funds that we raise and manage.

Asset Management and Securities Services.   We
    provide investment and wealth advisory services and offer
    investment products (primarily through separately managed
    accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and
    private investment funds) across all major asset classes to a
    diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and
    provide prime brokerage services, financing services and
    securities lending services to institutional clients, including
    hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide.

When we use the terms  Goldman Sachs,   the
    firm,   we,   us  and  our, 
    we mean Group Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its
    consolidated subsidiaries. References herein to our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    are to our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009.

In connection with becoming a bank holding company, we were
    required to change our fiscal year-end from November to
    December. This change in our fiscal year-end resulted in a
     one-month 
    transition period that began on November 29, 2008 and
    ended on December 26, 2008. Financial information for
    this fiscal transition period is included in Part II,
    Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    In April 2009, the Board of Directors of Group Inc.
    (the Board) approved a change in our fiscal year-end from the
    last Friday of December to December 31. Fiscal 2009 began
    on December 27, 2008 and ended on
    December 31, 2009.

All references to 2009, 2008 and 2007, unless specifically
    stated otherwise, refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates,
    as the context requires, December 31, 2009,
    November 28, 2008 and November 30, 2007,
    respectively, and any reference to a future year refers to a
    fiscal year ending on December 31 of that year. All references
    to December 2008, unless specifically stated otherwise,
    refer to our fiscal one month ended, or the date, as the context
    requires, December 26, 2008. Certain reclassifications
    have been made to previously reported amounts to conform to the
    current presentation.

In this discussion, we have included statements that may
    constitute  forward-looking statements  within the
    meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
    statements are not historical facts but instead represent only
    our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their
    nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These
    statements include statements other than historical information
    or statements of current condition and may relate to our future
    plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may
    also include statements about the objectives and effectiveness
    of our risk management and

55

Table of Contents   

liquidity policies, statements about trends in or growth
    opportunities for our businesses, statements about our future
    status, activities or reporting under U.S. or
     non-U.S. banking 
    and financial regulation, and statements about our investment
    banking transaction backlog. By identifying these statements for
    you in this manner, we are alerting you to the possibility that
    our actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly
    materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition
    indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors
    that could cause our actual results and financial condition to
    differ from those indicated in these forward-looking statements
    include, among others, those discussed below under
       Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our
    Businesses  as well as  Risk Factors  in
    Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    and  Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the U.S. Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995  in Part I,
    Item 1 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

56

Table of Contents   

Executive
    Overview  

Our diluted earnings per common share were $22.13 for the year
    ended December 31, 2009, compared with $4.47 for the
    year ended November 28, 2008. Return on average common
    shareholders  equity
    (ROE)  (1) 

    was 22.5% for 2009. Net revenues for 2009 were
    $45.17 billion, more than double the amount in 2008. Our
    ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues for 2009 was
    35.8% and represented our lowest annual ratio of compensation
    and benefits to net revenues. In addition, compensation was
    reduced by $500 million to fund a charitable contribution
    to Goldman Sachs Gives, our donor-advised fund. This
    contribution of $500 million was part of total commitments
    to charitable and small business initiatives during the year in
    excess of $1 billion. During the twelve months ended
    December 31, 2009, book value per common share
    increased 23% to $117.48 and tangible book value per common
    share  (2) 

    increased 27% to $108.42. During the year, the firm repurchased
    the preferred stock and associated warrant that were issued to
    the U.S. Department of the Treasury (U.S. Treasury)
    pursuant to the U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase
    Program. The firm s cumulative payments to the
    U.S. Treasury related to this program totaled
    $11.42 billion, including the return of the
    U.S. Treasury s $10.0 billion investment,
    $318 million in preferred dividends and $1.1 billion
    related to the warrant repurchase. In addition, in 2009 the firm
    completed a public offering of common stock for proceeds of
    $5.75 billion. Our Tier 1 capital ratio under Basel
    I  (3) 

    was 15.0% as of December 31, 2009 and our Tier 1
    common ratio under Basel
    I  (3) 

    was 12.2% as of December 31, 2009.

Net revenues in Trading and Principal Investments were
    significantly higher compared with 2008, reflecting a very
    strong performance in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities
    (FICC) and significantly improved results in Principal
    Investments, as well as higher net revenues in Equities. During
    2009, FICC operated in an environment characterized by strong
    client-driven activity, particularly in more liquid products. In
    addition, asset values generally improved and corporate credit
    spreads tightened significantly for most of the year. Net
    revenues in FICC were significantly higher compared with 2008,
    reflecting particularly strong performances in credit products,
    mortgages and interest rate products, which were each
    significantly higher than 2008. Net revenues in commodities were
    also particularly strong and were slightly higher than 2008,
    while net revenues in currencies were strong, but lower than a
    particularly strong 2008. During 2009, mortgages included a loss
    of approximately $1.5 billion (excluding hedges) on
    commercial mortgage loans. Results in 2008 were negatively
    impacted by asset writedowns across
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities, corporate debt, private and
    public equities, and residential and commercial mortgage loans
    and securities. The increase in Principal Investments reflected
    gains on corporate principal investments and our investment in
    the ordinary shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China
    Limited (ICBC) compared with net losses in 2008. In 2009,
    results in Principal Investments included a gain of
    $1.58 billion related to our investment in the ordinary
    shares of ICBC, a gain of $1.31 billion from corporate
    principal investments and a loss of $1.76 billion from real
    estate principal investments. Net revenues in Equities for 2009
    reflected strong results in the client franchise businesses.
    However,

(1)    ROE

    is computed by dividing net earnings applicable to common
    shareholders by average monthly common shareholders 
    equity. See
        Results 
    of Operations   Financial Overview  below for
    further information regarding our calculation of ROE.

(2)    Tangible

    common shareholders  equity equals total shareholders 
    equity less preferred stock, goodwill and identifiable
    intangible assets. Tangible book value per common share is
    computed by dividing tangible common shareholders  equity
    by the number of common shares outstanding, including restricted
    stock units (RSUs) granted to employees with no future service
    requirements. We believe that tangible common shareholders 
    equity is meaningful because it is one of the measures that we
    and investors use to assess capital adequacy. See
        Equity 
    Capital   Capital Ratios and Metrics  below for
    further information regarding tangible common shareholders 
    equity.

(3)    As

    a bank holding company, we are subject to consolidated
    regulatory capital requirements administered by the Board of
    Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board).
    We are reporting our Tier 1 capital ratios calculated in
    accordance with the regulatory capital requirements currently
    applicable to bank holding companies, which are based on the
    Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
    (Basel I). The Tier 1 capital ratio equals Tier 1
    capital divided by total
     risk-weighted 
    assets (RWAs). The Tier 1 common ratio equals Tier 1
    capital less preferred stock and junior subordinated debt issued
    to trusts, divided by RWAs. See
        Equity 
    Capital   Consolidated Capital Requirements 
    below for further information regarding our capital ratios.

57

Table of Contents   

results in the client franchise businesses were lower than a
    strong 2008 and included significantly lower commissions.
    Results in principal strategies were positive compared with
    losses in 2008. During 2009, Equities operated in an environment
    characterized by a significant increase in global equity prices,
    favorable market opportunities and a significant decline in
    volatility levels.

Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services
    decreased significantly compared with 2008, reflecting
    significantly lower net revenues in Securities Services, as well
    as lower net revenues in Asset Management. The decrease in
    Securities Services primarily reflected the impact of lower
    customer balances, reflecting lower hedge fund industry assets
    and reduced leverage. The decrease in Asset Management primarily
    reflected the impact of changes in the composition of assets
    managed, principally due to equity market depreciation during
    the fourth quarter of 2008, as well as lower incentive fees.
    During the year ended December 31, 2009, assets under
    management increased $73 billion to $871 billion, due
    to $76 billion of market appreciation, primarily in fixed
    income and equity assets, partially offset by $3 billion of
    net outflows. Outflows in money market assets were offset by
    inflows in fixed income assets.

Net revenues in Investment Banking decreased compared with 2008,
    reflecting significantly lower net revenues in Financial
    Advisory, partially offset by higher net revenues in our
    Underwriting business. The decrease in Financial Advisory
    reflected a decline in
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions. The increase in Underwriting
    reflected higher net revenues in equity underwriting, primarily
    reflecting an increase in
     industry-wide 
    equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings. Net revenues in debt underwriting were slightly lower
    than in 2008. Our investment banking transaction backlog
    increased significantly during the twelve months ended
    December 31, 2009.  (1) 

Our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable
    earnings. Our results in any given period can be materially
    affected by conditions in global financial markets, economic
    conditions generally and other factors. For a further discussion
    of the factors that may affect our future operating results, see
     
       Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our
    Businesses  below as well as  Risk Factors  in
    Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

(1)    Our

    investment banking transaction backlog represents an estimate of
    our future net revenues from investment banking transactions
    where we believe that future revenue realization is more likely
    than not.

58

Table of Contents   

Business
    Environment  

Our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment
    in which our businesses operate. During 2009, the economies of
    the U.S., Europe and Japan experienced a recession. Business
    activity across a wide range of industries and regions was
    greatly reduced, reflecting a reduction in consumer spending and
    low levels of liquidity across credit markets. In addition,
    unemployment continued to rise in 2009. However, economic
    conditions became generally more favorable during the second
    half of the year as real gross domestic product (GDP) growth
    turned positive in most major economies and growth in emerging
    markets improved. In addition, equity and credit markets were
    characterized by increasing asset prices, lower volatility and
    improved liquidity during the last nine months of the year. For
    a further discussion of how market conditions affect our
    businesses, see
        Certain 
    Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  below as well
    as  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    A further discussion of the business environment in 2009 is set
    forth below.

Global.   The global economy weakened during
    2009, as evidenced by declines in real GDP in the major
    economies. In addition, economic growth in emerging markets
    slowed during the year, especially among those economies most
    reliant upon international trade. Volatility levels across fixed
    income and equity markets declined during the year and corporate
    credit spreads generally tightened, particularly in the second
    half of the year. In addition, global equity markets increased
    significantly during our fiscal year. The U.S. Federal
    Reserve, The Bank of Japan and The People s Bank of China
    left interest rates unchanged during 2009, while central banks
    in the Eurozone and the United Kingdom lowered interest rates
    during the first half of the year. After a significant decline
    in the second half of calendar year 2008, the price of crude oil
    increased significantly during 2009. The U.S. dollar
    weakened against the British pound and the Euro, but
    strengthened against the Japanese yen. In investment banking,
     industry-wide 
    mergers and acquisitions activity remained weak, while
     industry-wide 
    debt offerings and equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings increased significantly compared with 2008.

United States.   Real GDP in the
    U.S. declined by an estimated 2.4% in calendar year 2009,
    compared with an increase of 0.4% in 2008. The recession in the
    U.S., which started near the beginning of our 2008 fiscal year,
    appeared to end in the third quarter of 2009, as real GDP
    increased during the second half of the year. Exports declined
    significantly in the first half of the year, but improved during
    the second half of the year. Consumer expenditure declined
    during 2009, despite significant support from the federal
    government s fiscal stimulus package. Business and consumer
    confidence improved during the year, but remained at low levels.
    The rate of inflation decreased during the year, reflecting an
    increase in unemployment and significant excess production
    capacity, which caused downward pressure on wages and prices.
    The U.S. Federal Reserve maintained its federal funds rate
    at a target range of zero to 0.25% during the year. In addition,
    the Federal Reserve purchased significant amounts of
     mortgage-backed 
    securities, as well as U.S. Treasury and federal agency
    debt in order to improve liquidity and expand the availability
    of credit. The yield on the
     10-year 
    U.S. Treasury note increased by 169 basis points to 3.85%
    during our fiscal year. The NASDAQ Composite Index, the S P
    500 Index and the Dow Jones Industrial Average ended our fiscal
    year higher by 48%, 28% and 22%, respectively.

59

Table of Contents   

Europe.   Real GDP in the Eurozone economies
    declined by an estimated 4.0% in calendar year 2009, compared
    with an increase of 0.5% in 2008. Fixed investment, consumer
    expenditure and exports declined during 2009. However, surveys
    of business and consumer confidence improved during the year.
    Although employment levels declined in many economies, the
    largest decreases were in the countries that were most affected
    by the housing market decline. The rate of inflation declined
    during the year. In response to economic weakness and concerns
    about the health of the financial system, the European Central
    Bank lowered its main refinancing operations rate by 150 basis
    points to 1.00%. In the United Kingdom, real GDP declined by an
    estimated 4.8% for calendar year 2009, compared with an increase
    of 0.5% in 2008. Although real GDP declined significantly in the
    first half of the year, it appeared to increase during the
    fourth quarter of 2009. The Bank of England lowered its official
    bank rate during our fiscal year by a total of 150 basis points
    to 0.50%.
     Long-term 
    government bond yields in both the Eurozone and the U.K.
    increased during our fiscal year. The Euro and British pound
    appreciated by 2% and 11%, respectively, against the
    U.S. dollar during our fiscal year. Major European equity
    markets ended our fiscal year significantly higher.

Asia.   In Japan, real GDP decreased by an
    estimated 5.0% in calendar year 2009, compared with a decrease
    of 1.2% in 2008. Measures of business investment, consumer
    expenditures and exports declined. Measures of inflation also
    declined during 2009. The Bank of Japan maintained its target
    overnight call rate at 0.10% during the year, while the yield on
     10-year 
    Japanese government bond increased during our fiscal year. The
    yen depreciated by 2% against the U.S. dollar. The
    Nikkei 225 increased 21% during our fiscal year.

In China, real GDP growth was an estimated 8.7% in calendar year
    2009, down from 9.6% in 2008. While exports declined during
    2009, the impact on economic activity was mitigated by an
    increase in fixed investment and consumer spending, partially
    due to fiscal stimulus and strong credit expansion. Measures of
    inflation declined for most of 2009, but began to increase
    toward the end of the year. The People s Bank of China left
    its  one-year 
    benchmark lending rate unchanged at 5.31% during the year and
    maintained a broadly stable exchange rate against the
    U.S. dollar. The Shanghai Composite Index increased 77%
    during our fiscal year. Real GDP growth in India decreased
    slightly to an estimated 6.6% in calendar year 2009 from 6.7% in
    2008. Industrial production and consumer spending increased
    during 2009. Exports declined significantly during 2009, but
    began to increase by the end of the year. The rate of wholesale
    inflation decreased during the year. The Indian rupee
    strengthened against the U.S. dollar. Equity markets in
    Hong Kong, India and South Korea increased significantly during
    our fiscal year.

Other Markets.   Real GDP in Brazil declined by
    an estimated 0.1% in calendar year 2009 compared with an
    increase of 5.1% in 2008. Although investment spending declined,
    an increase in commodity prices contributed to significant
    capital inflows, which helped support consumer spending. The
    Brazilian real strengthened against the U.S. dollar. In
    Russia, real GDP declined by an estimated 7.9% in calendar year
    2009, compared with an increase of 5.6% in 2008. Low oil prices
    earlier in the year, as well as a tightening in credit
    availability, led to a significant decline in investment,
    consumption and exports. In addition, the Russian ruble
    depreciated against the U.S. dollar. Brazilian and Russian
    equity prices ended our fiscal year significantly higher.

60

Table of Contents   

Certain Risk
    Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  

We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in
    our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit,
    operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. For a
    discussion of how management seeks to manage some of these
    risks, see
        Risk 
    Management  below. A summary of the more important factors
    that could affect our businesses follows below. For a further
    discussion of these and other important factors that could
    affect our businesses, see  Risk Factors  in
    Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Market Conditions and Market Risk.     Our
    financial performance is highly dependent on the environment in
    which our businesses operate. A favorable business environment
    is generally characterized by, among other factors, high global
    GDP growth, transparent, liquid and efficient capital markets,
    low inflation, high business and investor confidence, stable
    geopolitical conditions, and strong business earnings.
    Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market conditions can be
    caused by: declines in economic growth, business activity or
    investor or business confidence; limitations on the availability
    or increases in the cost of credit and capital; increases in
    inflation, interest rates, exchange rate volatility, default
    rates or the price of basic commodities; outbreaks of
    hostilities or other geopolitical instability; corporate,
    political or other scandals that reduce investor confidence in
    capital markets; natural disasters or pandemics; or a
    combination of these or other factors. Our businesses and
    profitability have been and may continue to be adversely
    affected by market conditions in many ways, including the
    following:

Many of our businesses, such as our merchant banking businesses,
    our mortgages, leveraged loan and credit products businesses in
    our FICC segment, and our equity principal strategies business,
    have net  long  positions in debt securities, loans,
    derivatives, mortgages, equities (including private equity) and
    most other asset classes. In addition, many of our
     market-making 
    and other businesses in which we act as a principal to
    facilitate our clients  activities, including our
    exchange-based
     market-making 
    businesses, commit large amounts of capital to maintain trading
    positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as
    currencies, commodities and equities. Because nearly all of
    these investing and trading positions are
     marked-to-market 
    on a daily basis, declines in asset values directly and
    immediately impact our earnings, unless we have effectively
     hedged  our exposures to such declines. In certain
    circumstances (particularly in the case of leveraged loans and
    private equities or other securities that are not freely
    tradable or lack established and liquid trading markets), it may
    not be possible or economic to hedge such exposures and to the
    extent that we do so the hedge may be ineffective or may greatly
    reduce our ability to profit from increases in the values of the
    assets. Sudden declines and significant volatility in the prices
    of assets may substantially curtail or eliminate the trading
    markets for certain assets, which may make it very difficult to
    sell, hedge or value such assets. The inability to sell or
    effectively hedge assets reduces our ability to limit losses in
    such positions and the difficulty in valuing assets may require
    us to maintain additional capital and increase our funding costs.

Our cost of obtaining
     long-term 
    unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads.
    Credit spreads are influenced by market perceptions of our
    creditworthiness. Widening credit spreads, as well as
    significant declines in the availability of credit, have in the
    past adversely affected our ability to borrow on a secured and
    unsecured basis and may do so in the future. We fund ourselves
    on an unsecured basis by issuing
     long-term 
    debt, promissory notes and commercial paper, by accepting
    deposits at our bank subsidiaries or by obtaining bank loans or
    lines of credit. We seek to finance many of our assets on a
    secured basis, including by entering into repurchase agreements.
    Any disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and
    more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. If our
    available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our
    operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to
    curtail our business activities and increase our cost of
    funding, both of which could reduce our profitability,
    particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending
    and taking principal positions, including market making.

61

Table of Contents   

Our investment banking business has been and may continue to be
    adversely affected by market conditions. Poor economic
    conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can
    adversely affect and have adversely affected investor and CEO
    confidence, resulting in significant
     industry-wide 
    declines in the size and number of underwritings and of
    financial advisory transactions, which could have an adverse
    effect on our revenues and our profit margins. In addition, our
    clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on
    access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance
    their transactions. A lack of available credit or an increased
    cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing
    of our clients  merger and acquisition
    transactions   particularly large transactions.
    Because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues
    is derived from our participation in large transactions, a
    decline in the number of large transactions would adversely
    affect our investment banking business.

Certain of our trading businesses depend on market volatility to
    provide trading and arbitrage opportunities, and decreases in
    volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect
    the results of these businesses. On the other hand, increased
    volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads,
    also increases risk as measured by VaR and may expose us to
    increased risks in connection with our
     market-making 
    and proprietary businesses or cause us to reduce the size of
    these businesses in order to avoid increasing our VaR. Limiting
    the size of our
     market-making 
    positions and investing businesses can adversely affect our
    profitability.

We receive
     asset-based 
    management fees based on the value of our clients 
    portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some
    cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the
    value of such investments. Declines in asset values reduce the
    value of our clients  portfolios or fund assets, which in
    turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets. Market
    uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions, as well
    as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to transfer
    their assets out of our funds or other products or their
    brokerage accounts or affect our ability to attract new clients
    or additional assets from existing clients and result in reduced
    net revenues, principally in our asset management business. To
    the extent that clients do not withdraw their funds, they may
    invest them in products that generate less fee income.

Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant
    losses in our
     market-making, 
    proprietary trading, investing, block trading, merchant banking,
    underwriting and lending businesses. This risk may increase to
    the extent we expand our
     market-making, 
    trading, investing and lending businesses.

Liquidity Risk.   Liquidity is essential to our
    businesses. Our liquidity may be impaired by an inability to
    access secured
     and/or 
    unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our
    subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our
    investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. This
    situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable
    to control, such as a general market disruption or an
    operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by
    the perception among market participants that we, or other
    market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk.

The financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to
    which we are a party are complex, as we employ structured
    products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex
    structured products often do not have readily available markets
    to access in times of liquidity stress. Our investing activities
    may lead to situations where the holdings from these activities
    represent a significant portion of specific markets, which could
    restrict liquidity for our positions. Further, our ability to
    sell assets may be impaired if other market participants are
    seeking to sell similar assets at the same time, as is likely to
    occur in a liquidity or other market crisis. In addition,
    financial institutions with which we interact may exercise
    set-off rights or the right to require additional collateral,
    including in difficult market conditions, which could further
    impair our access to liquidity.

62

Table of Contents   

Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction
    in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and
    competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our
    access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under
    certain bilateral provisions in some of our trading and
    collateralized financing contracts. Under these provisions,
    counterparties could be permitted to terminate contracts with
    Goldman Sachs or require us to post additional collateral.
    Termination of our trading and collateralized financing
    contracts could cause us to sustain losses and impair our
    liquidity by requiring us to find other sources of financing or
    to make significant cash payments or securities movements. For a
    discussion of the potential impact on Goldman Sachs of a
    reduction in our credit ratings, see
        Liquidity 
    and Funding Risk   Credit Ratings  below.

Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. (GS Co.), Goldman Sachs Bank
    USA (GS Bank USA) and Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC (GS Bank
    Europe), subject to certain exceptions, and has pledged
    significant assets to GS Bank USA to support obligations to GS
    Bank USA. In addition, Group Inc. guarantees many of the
    obligations of its other consolidated subsidiaries on a
     transaction-by-transaction 
    basis, as negotiated with counterparties. These guarantees may
    require Group Inc. to provide substantial funds or assets
    to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a
    time when Group Inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its
    own obligations.

Credit Risk.   We are exposed to the risk that
    third parties that owe us money, securities or other assets will
    not perform their obligations. These parties may default on
    their obligations to us due to bankruptcy, lack of liquidity,
    operational failure or other reasons. A failure of a significant
    market participant, or even concerns about a default by such an
    institution, could lead to significant liquidity problems,
    losses or defaults by other institutions, which in turn could
    adversely affect us. We are also subject to the risk that our
    rights against third parties may not be enforceable in all
    circumstances. In addition, deterioration in the credit quality
    of third parties whose securities or obligations we hold could
    result in losses
     and/or 
    adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use
    those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A
    significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our
    counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results.
    While in many cases we are permitted to require additional
    collateral from counterparties that experience financial
    difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we
    are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. Default
    rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to the
    valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of
    market stress and illiquidity.

Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific
    clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries
    and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default
    risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult
    to detect or foresee, particularly as new business initiatives
    and market developments lead us to transact with a broader array
    of clients and counterparties, as well as clearing houses and
    exchanges, and expose us to new asset classes and new markets.

We have experienced, due to competitive factors, pressure to
    extend and price credit at levels that may not always fully
    compensate us for the risks we take. In particular, corporate
    clients seek such commitments from financial services firms in
    connection with investment banking and other assignments.

Operational Risk.   Our businesses are highly
    dependent on our ability to process and monitor, on a daily
    basis, a very large number of transactions, many of which are
    highly complex, across numerous and diverse markets in many
    currencies. These transactions, as well as the information
    technology services we provide to clients, often must adhere to
    client-specific guidelines, as well as legal and regulatory
    standards. Despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have
    in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely
    impacted by a disruption in the infrastructure that supports our
    businesses and the communities in which we are located. This may
    include a disruption involving electrical, communications,
    internet, transportation or other services used by us or third
    parties with which we conduct business.

63

Table of Contents   

Industry consolidation, whether among market participants or
    financial intermediaries, increases the risk of operational
    failure as disparate complex systems need to be integrated,
    often on an accelerated basis. Furthermore, the
    interconnectivity of multiple financial institutions with
    central agents, exchanges and clearing houses, and the increased
    centrality of these entities under proposed and potential
    regulation, increases the risk that an operational failure at
    one institution or entity may cause an
     industry-wide 
    operational failure that could materially impact our ability to
    conduct business.

Legal, Regulatory and Reputational Risk.   We
    are subject to extensive and evolving regulation in
    jurisdictions around the world. Several of our subsidiaries are
    subject to regulatory capital requirements and, as a bank
    holding company, we are subject to minimum capital standards and
    a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio on a consolidated basis.
    Our status as a bank holding company and the operation of our
    lending and other businesses through GS Bank USA
    subject us to additional regulation and limitations on our
    activities, as described in  Regulation   Banking
    Regulation  in Part I, Item 1 of our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

New regulations could impact our profitability in the affected
    jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us to continue to
    conduct all or certain of our businesses in such jurisdictions,
    or could cause us to incur significant costs associated with
    changing our business practices, restructuring our businesses,
    moving all or certain of our businesses and our employees to
    other locations or complying with applicable capital
    requirements, including liquidating assets or raising capital in
    a manner that adversely increases our funding costs or otherwise
    adversely affects our shareholders and creditors. To the extent
    new laws or regulations or changes in enforcement of existing
    laws or regulations are imposed on a limited subset of financial
    institutions, this could adversely affect our ability to compete
    effectively with other institutions that are not affected in the
    same way.

A Financial Crisis Responsibility Fee to be assessed on the
    largest financial firms by the U.S. government was proposed
    on January 14, 2010. However, since this is still in
    the proposal stage and has not been approved by Congress,
    details surrounding the fee have not been finalized. We are
    currently evaluating the impact of the proposal on our results
    of operations. The impact of the proposal, if any, will be
    recorded when it is ultimately enacted.

Substantial legal liability or a significant regulatory action
    against us, or adverse publicity, governmental scrutiny or legal
    and enforcement proceedings regardless of the ultimate outcome,
    could have material adverse financial effects, cause significant
    reputational harm to us or adversely impact the morale and
    performance of our employees, which in turn could seriously harm
    our businesses and results of operations. We face significant
    legal risks in our businesses, and the volume of claims and
    amount of damages and penalties claimed in litigation and
    regulatory proceedings against financial institutions remain
    high. Our experience has been that legal claims by customers and
    clients increase in a market downturn and that
    employment-related claims increase in periods when we have
    reduced the total number of employees. For a discussion of how
    we account for our legal and regulatory exposures, see
        Use 
    of Estimates  below.

64

Table of Contents   

Critical
    Accounting Policies  

Fair
    Value  

The use of fair value to measure financial instruments, with
    related gains or losses generally recognized in  Trading
    and principal investments  in our consolidated statements
    of earnings, is fundamental to our financial statements and our
    risk management processes and is our most critical accounting
    policy. The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount
    that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
    liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
    at the measurement date (i.e., the exit price). Financial
    assets are marked to bid prices and financial liabilities are
    marked to offer prices. Fair value measurements do not include
    transaction costs.

Substantially all trading assets and trading liabilities are
    reflected in our consolidated statements of financial condition
    at fair value. In determining fair value, we separate our
    trading assets, at fair value and trading liabilities, at fair
    value into two categories: cash instruments and derivative
    contracts, as set forth in the following table:

Trading
    Instruments by Category 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Includes interests of
    $5.13 billion and $3.48 billion as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively, held by
    investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs. The fair value of our
    investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, which trade on The
    Stock Exchange of Hong Kong, includes the effect of foreign
    exchange revaluation for which we maintain an economic currency
    hedge.

(2)   

The following table sets forth the
    principal investments (other than our investments in ICBC and
    Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG)) included within
    the Principal Investments component of our Trading and Principal
    Investments segment:

65

Table of Contents   

Cash Instruments.   Cash instruments include
    cash trading instruments, public principal investments and
    private principal investments.

Cash Trading Instruments.   Our cash trading
    instruments (e.g., equity and debt securities) are
    generally valued using quoted market prices, broker or dealer
    quotations, or alternative pricing sources with reasonable
    levels of price transparency. The types of instruments valued
    based on quoted market prices in active markets include most
    government obligations, active listed equities and certain money
    market securities.

The types of instruments that trade in markets that are not
    considered to be active, but are valued based on quoted market
    prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing
    sources with reasonable levels of price transparency include
    most government agency securities, most corporate bonds, certain
    mortgage products, certain bank loans and bridge loans, less
    liquid listed equities, certain state, municipal and provincial
    obligations and certain money market securities and loan
    commitments.

Certain cash trading instruments trade infrequently and
    therefore have little or no price transparency. Such instruments
    include private equity investments and real estate fund
    investments, certain bank loans and bridge loans (including
    certain mezzanine financing, leveraged loans arising from
    capital market transactions and other corporate bank debt), less
    liquid corporate debt securities and other debt obligations
    (including less liquid corporate bonds, distressed debt
    instruments and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) backed by
    corporate obligations), less liquid mortgage whole loans and
    securities (backed by either commercial or residential real
    estate), and acquired portfolios of distressed loans. The
    transaction price is initially used as the best estimate of fair
    value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value such
    an instrument, the model is adjusted so that the model value at
    inception equals the transaction price. This valuation is
    adjusted only when changes to inputs and assumptions are
    corroborated by evidence such as transactions in similar
    instruments, completed or pending
     third-party 
    transactions in the underlying investment or comparable
    entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and
    other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in
    the equity or debt capital markets, and changes in financial
    ratios or cash flows.

For positions that are not traded in active markets or are
    subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to
    reflect illiquidity
     and/or 
     non-transferability. 
    Such adjustments are generally based on market evidence where
    available. In the absence of such evidence, management s
    best estimate is used.

Public Principal Investments.   Our public
    principal investments held within the Principal Investments
    component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment tend
    to be large, concentrated holdings resulting from initial public
    offerings or other corporate transactions, and are valued based
    on quoted market prices. For positions that are not traded in
    active markets or are subject to transfer restrictions,
    valuations are adjusted to reflect illiquidity
     and/or 
     non-transferability. 
    Such adjustments are generally based on market evidence where
    available. In the absence of such evidence, management s
    best estimate is used.

Our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC is valued using
    the quoted market price adjusted for transfer restrictions.
    Under the original transfer restrictions, the ICBC shares we
    held would have become free from transfer restrictions in equal
    installments on April 28, 2009 and
    October 20, 2009. During the quarter ended
    March 2009, the shares became subject to new supplemental
    transfer restrictions. Under these new supplemental transfer
    restrictions, on April 28, 2009, 20% of the ICBC
    shares that we held became free from transfer restrictions and
    we completed the disposition of these shares during the second
    quarter of 2009. Our remaining ICBC shares are subject to
    transfer restrictions, which prohibit liquidation at any time
    prior to April 28, 2010.

66

Table of Contents   

We also have an investment in the convertible preferred stock of
    SMFG. This investment is valued using a model that is
    principally based on SMFG s common stock price. During
    2008, we converted
     one-third  of
    our SMFG preferred stock investment into SMFG common stock, and
    delivered the common stock to close out
     one-third  of
    our hedge position. As of December 2009, we remained hedged
    on substantially all of the common stock underlying our
    remaining investment in SMFG.

Private Principal Investments.   Our private
    principal investments held within the Principal Investments
    component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment
    include investments in private equity, debt and real estate,
    primarily held through investment funds. By their nature, these
    investments have little or no price transparency. We value such
    instruments initially at transaction price and adjust valuations
    when evidence is available to support such adjustments. Such
    evidence includes recent
     third-party 
    investments or pending transactions,
     third-party 
    independent appraisals, transactions in similar instruments,
    discounted cash flow techniques, valuation multiples and public
    comparables.

Derivative Contracts.   Derivative contracts can
    be
     exchange-traded 
    or
     over-the-counter 
    (OTC). We generally value
     exchange-traded 
    derivatives using models which calibrate to
     market-clearing 
    levels and eliminate timing differences between the closing
    price of the
     exchange-traded 
    derivatives and their underlying instruments.

OTC derivatives are valued using market transactions and other
    market evidence whenever possible, including
     market-based 
    inputs to models, model calibration to
     market-clearing 
    transactions, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative
    pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
    Where models are used, the selection of a particular model to
    value an OTC derivative depends upon the contractual terms of,
    and specific risks inherent in, the instrument, as well as the
    availability of pricing information in the market. We generally
    use similar models to value similar instruments. Valuation
    models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms,
    market prices, yield curves, credit curves, measures of
    volatility, voluntary and involuntary prepayment rates, loss
    severity rates and correlations of such inputs. For OTC
    derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic
    forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can generally be
    verified and model selection does not involve significant
    management judgment.

Certain OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with
    limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value
    for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. Where we do
    not have corroborating market evidence to support significant
    model inputs and cannot verify the model to market transactions,
    the transaction price is initially used as the best estimate of
    fair value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value
    such an instrument, the model is adjusted so that the model
    value at inception equals the transaction price. Subsequent to
    initial recognition, we only update valuation inputs when
    corroborated by evidence such as similar market transactions,
     third-party 
    pricing services
     and/or 
    broker or dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. In
    circumstances where we cannot verify the model value to market
    transactions, it is possible that a different valuation model
    could produce a materially different estimate of fair value. See
       Derivatives  below for further
    information on our OTC derivatives.

When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors
    such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations.
    Such adjustments are generally based on market evidence where
    available. In the absence of such evidence, management s
    best estimate is used.

67

Table of Contents   

Controls Over Valuation of Financial
    Instruments.   A control infrastructure,
    independent of the trading and investing functions, is
    fundamental to ensuring that our financial instruments are
    appropriately valued at
     market-clearing 
    levels (i.e., exit prices) and that fair value measurements
    are reliable and consistently determined.

We employ an oversight structure that includes appropriate
    segregation of duties. Senior management, independent of the
    trading and investing functions, is responsible for the
    oversight of control and valuation policies and for reporting
    the results of these policies to our Audit Committee. We seek to
    maintain the necessary resources to ensure that control
    functions are performed appropriately. We employ procedures for
    the approval of new transaction types and markets, price
    verification, review of daily profit and loss, and review of
    valuation models by personnel with appropriate technical
    knowledge of relevant products and markets. These procedures are
    performed by personnel independent of the trading and investing
    functions. For financial instruments where prices or valuations
    that require inputs are less observable, we employ, where
    possible, procedures that include comparisons with similar
    observable positions, analysis of actual to projected cash
    flows, comparisons with subsequent sales, reviews of valuations
    used for collateral management purposes and discussions with
    senior business leaders. See
        Market 
    Risk  and
        Credit 
    Risk  below for a further discussion of how we manage the
    risks inherent in our trading and principal investing businesses.

Fair Value Hierarchy  
    Level 3.   The fair value hierarchy under
    Financial Accounting Standards Board Accounting Standards
    Codification (ASC) 820 prioritizes the inputs to valuation
    techniques used to measure fair value. The objective of a fair
    value measurement is to determine the price that would be
    received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an
    orderly transaction between market participants at the
    measurement date (i.e., the exit price). The hierarchy
    gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active
    markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1
    measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs
    (level 3 measurements). Assets and liabilities are
    classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input
    that is significant to the fair value measurement.

Instruments that trade infrequently and therefore have little or
    no price transparency are classified within level 3 of the
    fair value hierarchy. We determine which instruments are
    classified within level 3 based on the results of our price
    verification process. This process is performed by personnel
    independent of our trading and investing functions who
    corroborate valuations to external market data
    (e.g., quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations,
     third-party 
    pricing vendors, recent trading activity and comparative
    analyses to similar instruments). Instruments with valuations
    which cannot be corroborated to external market data are
    classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

When broker or dealer quotations or
     third-party 
    pricing vendors are used for valuation or price verification,
    greater priority is given to executable quotes. As part of our
    price verification process, valuations based on quotes are
    corroborated by comparison both to other quotes and to recent
    trading activity in the same or similar instruments. The number
    of quotes obtained varies by instrument and depends on the
    liquidity of the particular instrument. See Notes 2 and 3
    to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding fair value measurements.

Valuation Methodologies for Level 3
    Assets.   Instruments classified within
    level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are initially valued at
    transaction price, which is considered to be the best initial
    estimate of fair value. As time passes, transaction price
    becomes less reliable as an estimate of fair value and
    accordingly, we use other methodologies to determine fair value,
    which vary based on the type of instrument, as described below.
    Regardless of the methodology, valuation inputs and assumptions
    are only changed when corroborated by substantive evidence.
    Senior management in control functions, independent of the
    trading and investing functions, reviews all significant
    unrealized gains/losses, including the primary drivers of the
    change in value. Valuations are further corroborated

68

Table of Contents   

by values realized upon sales of our level 3 assets. An
    overview of methodologies used to value our level 3 assets
    subsequent to the transaction date is as follows:

Equities and convertible
    debentures.   Substantially all of our level 3
    equities and convertible debentures consist of private equity
    investments and real estate fund investments. For private equity
    investments, recent
     third-party 
    investments or pending transactions are considered to be the
    best evidence for any change in fair value. In the absence of
    such evidence, valuations are based on one or more of the
    following methodologies, as appropriate and available:
    transactions in similar instruments, discounted cash flow
    techniques,
     third-party 
    independent appraisals, valuation multiples and public
    comparables. Such evidence includes pending reorganizations
    (e.g., merger proposals, tender offers or debt
    restructurings); and significant changes in financial metrics
    (e.g., operating results as compared to previous
    projections, industry multiples, credit ratings and balance
    sheet ratios). Real estate fund investments are carried at net
    asset value per share. The underlying investments in the funds
    are generally valued using discounted cash flow techniques, for
    which the key inputs are the amount and timing of expected
    future cash flows, capitalization rates and valuation multiples.

Bank loans and bridge loans and Corporate debt securities and
    other debt obligations.  Valuations are generally based on
    discounted cash flow techniques, for which the key inputs are
    the amount and timing of expected future cash flows, market
    yields for such instruments and recovery assumptions. Inputs are
    generally determined based on relative value analyses, which
    incorporate comparisons both to credit default swaps that
    reference the same underlying credit risk and to other debt
    instruments for the same issuer for which observable prices or
    broker quotes are available.

Loans and securities backed by commercial real estate. 
    Loans and securities backed by commercial real estate are
    collateralized by specific assets and may be tranched into
    varying levels of subordination. Due to the nature of these
    instruments, valuation techniques vary by instrument.
    Methodologies include relative value analyses across different
    tranches, comparisons to transactions in both the underlying
    collateral and instruments with the same or substantially the
    same underlying collateral, market indices (such as the CMBX
     (1) ), and

    credit default swaps, as well as discounted cash flow techniques.

Loans and securities backed by residential real estate. 
    Valuations are based on both proprietary and industry recognized
    models (including Intex and Bloomberg), and discounted cash flow
    techniques. In the recent market environment, the most
    significant inputs to the valuation of these instruments are
    rates and timing of delinquency, default and loss expectations,
    which are driven in part by housing prices. Inputs are
    determined based on relative value analyses, which incorporate
    comparisons to instruments with similar collateral and risk
    profiles, including relevant indices such as the ABX
     (1) .

Loan portfolios.   Valuations are based on
    discounted cash flow techniques, for which the key inputs are
    the amount and timing of expected future cash flows and market
    yields for such instruments. Inputs are determined based on
    relative value analyses which incorporate comparisons to recent
    auction data for other similar loan portfolios.

Derivative contracts.   Valuation models are
    calibrated to initial transaction price. Subsequent changes in
    valuations are based on observable inputs to the valuation
    models (e.g., interest rates, credit spreads, volatilities,
    etc.). Inputs are changed only when corroborated by market data.
    Valuations of less liquid OTC derivatives are typically based on
    level 1 or level 2 inputs that can be observed in the
    market, as well as unobservable inputs, such as correlations and
    volatilities.

(1)    The

    CMBX and ABX are indices that track the performance of
    commercial mortgage bonds and subprime residential mortgage
    bonds, respectively.

69

Table of Contents   

Total level 3 assets were $46.48 billion and
    $66.19 billion as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively. The decrease in level 3
    assets as of December 2009 compared with November 2008
    primarily reflected unrealized losses (principally on private
    equity investments and real estate fund investments, loans and
    securities backed by commercial real estate, and bank loans and
    bridge loans) and sales and paydowns (principally on loans and
    securities backed by commercial real estate, bank loans and
    bridge loans, and other debt obligations).

The following table sets forth the fair values of financial
    assets classified within level 3 of the fair value
    hierarchy:

Level 3
    Financial Assets at Fair Value 
       (in
    millions)

(1)  

Substantially all consists of private equity investments and
    real estate fund investments. Real estate investments were
    $1.23 billion and $2.62 billion as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.

(2)  

Includes certain mezzanine financing, leveraged loans arising
    from capital market transactions and other corporate bank debt.

(3)  

Includes $741 million and $804 million as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively, of CDOs
    and collateralized loan obligations backed by corporate
    obligations.

(4)  

Consists of acquired portfolios of distressed loans, primarily
    backed by commercial and residential real estate collateral.

(5)  

We do not bear economic exposure to these level 3 assets as
    they are financed by nonrecourse debt, attributable to minority
    investors or attributable to employee interests in certain
    consolidated funds.

70

Table of Contents   

Loans and securities backed by residential real
    estate.   We securitize, underwrite and make
    markets in various types of residential mortgages, including
    prime,  Alt-A 
    and subprime. At any point in time, we may use cash instruments
    as well as derivatives to manage our long or short risk position
    in residential real estate. The following table sets forth the
    fair value of our long positions in prime,
     Alt-A  and
    subprime mortgage cash instruments:

Long Positions in
    Loans and Securities Backed by Residential Real Estate 
       (in
    millions)

Loans and securities backed by commercial real
    estate.   We originate, securitize and syndicate
    fixed and floating rate commercial mortgages globally. At any
    point in time, we may use cash instruments as well as
    derivatives to manage our risk position in the commercial
    mortgage market. The following table sets forth the fair value
    of our long positions in loans and securities backed by
    commercial real estate by geographic region. The decrease in
    loans and securities backed by commercial real estate from
    November 2008 to December 2009 was primarily due to
    sales and paydowns.

Long Positions in
    Loans and Securities Backed by 
    Commercial Real Estate by Geographic Region 
        (in
    millions)

71

Table of Contents   

Leveraged Lending Capital Market
    Transactions.   We arrange, extend and syndicate
    loans and commitments related to leveraged lending capital
    market transactions globally. The following table sets forth the
    notional amount of our leveraged lending capital market
    transactions by geographic region:

Leveraged Lending
    Capital Market Transactions by Geographic Region 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Substantially all relates to the
    U.S.

(2)   

Represents the notional amount. We
    account for these transactions at fair value and our exposure
    was $2.27 billion and $5.53 billion as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.

Other Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities at Fair
    Value.   In addition to trading assets, at fair
    value and trading liabilities, at fair value, we have elected to
    account for certain of our other financial assets and financial
    liabilities at fair value under ASC
     815-15  and
    ASC  825-10 
    (i.e., the fair value option). The primary reasons for
    electing the fair value option are to reflect economic events in
    earnings on a timely basis, to mitigate volatility in earnings
    from using different measurement attributes and to address
    simplification and
     cost-benefit 
    considerations.

Such financial assets and financial liabilities accounted for at
    fair value include:

certain unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, consisting of all promissory notes and commercial
    paper and certain hybrid financial instruments;

certain other secured financings, primarily transfers accounted
    for as financings rather than sales, debt raised through our
    William Street credit extension program and certain other
    nonrecourse financings;

certain unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, including prepaid physical commodity transactions
    and certain hybrid financial instruments;

resale and repurchase agreements;

securities borrowed and loaned within Trading and Principal
    Investments, consisting of our matched book and certain firm
    financing activities;

certain deposits issued by our bank subsidiaries, as well as
    securities held by GS Bank USA;

certain receivables from customers and counterparties, including
    certain margin loans, transfers accounted for as secured loans
    rather than purchases and prepaid variable share forwards;

certain insurance and reinsurance contracts and certain
    guarantees; and

in general, investments acquired after
    November 24, 2006, when the fair value option became
    available, where we have significant influence over the investee
    and would otherwise apply the equity method of accounting. In
    certain cases, we apply the equity method of accounting to new
    investments that are strategic in nature or closely related to
    our principal business activities, where we have a significant
    degree of involvement in the cash flows or operations of the
    investee, or where
     cost-benefit 
    considerations are less significant.

72

Table of Contents   

Goodwill and
    Identifiable Intangible Assets  

As a result of our acquisitions, principally SLK LLC (SLK) in
    2000, The Ayco Company, L.P. (Ayco) in 2003 and our variable
    annuity and life insurance business in 2006, we have acquired
    goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Goodwill is the
    cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair value of net
    assets, including identifiable intangible assets, at the
    acquisition date.

Goodwill.   We test the goodwill in each of our
    operating segments, which are components one level below our
    three business segments, for impairment at least annually, by
    comparing the estimated fair value of each operating segment
    with its estimated net book value. We derive the fair value of
    each of our operating segments based on valuation techniques we
    believe market participants would use for each segment
    (observable average
     price-to-earnings 
    multiples of our competitors in these businesses and
     price-to-book 
    multiples). We derive the net book value of our operating
    segments by estimating the amount of shareholders  equity
    required to support the activities of each operating segment.
    Our last annual impairment test was performed during our 2009
    fourth quarter and no impairment was identified.

During 2008 (particularly during the fourth quarter) and early
    2009, the financial services industry and the securities markets
    generally were materially and adversely affected by significant
    declines in the values of nearly all asset classes and by a
    serious lack of liquidity. If there was a prolonged period of
    weakness in the business environment and financial markets, our
    businesses would be adversely affected, which could result in an
    impairment of goodwill in the future.

The following table sets forth the carrying value of our
    goodwill by operating segment:

Goodwill by
    Operating Segment 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Primarily related to SLK.

(2)   

Primarily related to Ayco.

73

Table of Contents   

Identifiable Intangible Assets.   We amortize
    our identifiable intangible assets over their estimated lives
    or, in the case of insurance contracts, in proportion to
    estimated gross profits or premium revenues. Identifiable
    intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever events or
    changes in circumstances suggest that an asset s or asset
    group s carrying value may not be fully recoverable. An
    impairment loss, generally calculated as the difference between
    the estimated fair value and the carrying value of an asset or
    asset group, is recognized if the sum of the estimated
    undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset or asset group is
    less than the corresponding carrying value.

The following table sets forth the carrying value and range of
    estimated remaining lives of our identifiable intangible assets
    by major asset class:

Identifiable
    Intangible Assets by Asset Class 
       ($ in
    millions)

(1)   

Primarily includes our clearance
    and execution and NASDAQ customer lists related to SLK and
    financial counseling customer lists related to Ayco.

(2)   

Primarily includes the value of
    business acquired related to our insurance businesses.

(3)   

Primarily includes
    marketing-related assets and other contractual rights.

A prolonged period of weakness in global equity markets could
    adversely impact our businesses and impair the value of our
    identifiable intangible assets. In addition, certain events
    could indicate a potential impairment of our identifiable
    intangible assets, including (i) changes in trading volumes
    or market structure that could adversely affect our
    exchange-based
     market-making 
    businesses (see discussion below), (ii) an adverse action
    or assessment by a regulator or (iii) adverse actual
    experience on the contracts in our variable annuity and life
    insurance business.

In October 2008, the SEC approved the NYSE s proposal
    to create a new market model and redefine the role of NYSE DMMs.
    In June 2009, the NYSE successfully completed the rollout
    of new systems architecture that further reduces order
    completion time, which enables the NYSE to offer competitive
    execution speeds, while continuing to incorporate the price
    discovery provided by DMMs. Following solid performance during
    the first half of 2009, in the latter half of 2009, our DMM
    business was adversely impacted primarily by the lack of timely
    market data in the internal order/execution system of the NYSE
    (which, at times, results in DMMs making markets without
    real-time price information) and to a lesser extent, by lower
    trading volumes and lower volatility. In 2010, the NYSE is
    expected to address this market data issue. There can be no
    assurance that changes in these factors will result in
    sufficient cash flows to avoid impairment of our NYSE DMM rights
    in the future. In accordance with the requirements of ASC 360,
    we will be closely monitoring the performance of our DMM
    business to determine whether an impairment loss is required in
    the future. As of December 2009, the carrying value of our
    NYSE DMM rights was $420 million. To the extent that there
    were to be an impairment in the future, it would result in a
    significant writedown in the carrying value of these DMM rights.

74

Table of Contents   

Use of
    Estimates  

The use of generally accepted accounting principles requires
    management to make certain estimates and assumptions. In
    addition to the estimates we make in connection with fair value
    measurements and the accounting for goodwill and identifiable
    intangible assets, the use of estimates and assumptions is also
    important in determining provisions for potential losses that
    may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax
    audits.

We estimate and provide for potential losses that may arise out
    of litigation and regulatory proceedings to the extent that such
    losses are probable and can be reasonably estimated. In
    accounting for income taxes, we estimate and provide for
    potential liabilities that may arise out of tax audits to the
    extent that uncertain tax positions fail to meet the recognition
    standard under ASC 740. See Note 2 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding accounting for income taxes.

Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and
    our final liabilities may ultimately be materially different.
    Our total estimated liability in respect of litigation and
    regulatory proceedings is determined on a
     case-by-case 
    basis and represents an estimate of probable losses after
    considering, among other factors, the progress of each case or
    proceeding, our experience and the experience of others in
    similar cases or proceedings, and the opinions and views of
    legal counsel. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the
    outcome of our litigation and regulatory matters, particularly
    in cases or proceedings in which substantial or indeterminate
    damages or fines are sought, we cannot estimate losses or ranges
    of losses for cases or proceedings where there is only a
    reasonable possibility that a loss may be incurred. See
        Legal 
    Proceedings  in Part I, Item 3 of our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information on our judicial, regulatory and arbitration
    proceedings.

75

Table of Contents   

Results of
    Operations  

The composition of our net revenues has varied over time as
    financial markets and the scope of our operations have changed.
    The composition of net revenues can also vary over the shorter
    term due to fluctuations in U.S. and global economic and
    market conditions. See
        Certain 
    Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  above and
     Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a further discussion of the impact of economic and market
    conditions on our results of operations.

Financial
    Overview  

The following table sets forth an overview of our financial
    results:

Financial
    Overview 
       ($ in
    millions, except per share amounts)

(1)   

ROE is computed by dividing net
    earnings applicable to common shareholders by average monthly
    common shareholders  equity. The following table sets forth
    our average common shareholders  equity:

76

Table of Contents   

Net
    Revenues   

2009 versus 2008.   Our net revenues were
    $45.17 billion in 2009, more than double the amount in
    2008, reflecting significantly higher net revenues in Trading
    and Principal Investments. The increase in Trading and Principal
    Investments reflected a very strong performance in FICC and
    significantly improved results in Principal Investments, as well
    as higher net revenues in Equities. During 2009, FICC operated
    in an environment characterized by strong client-driven
    activity, particularly in more liquid products. In addition,
    asset values generally improved and corporate credit spreads
    tightened significantly for most of the year. Net revenues in
    FICC were significantly higher compared with 2008, reflecting
    particularly strong performances in credit products, mortgages
    and interest rate products, which were each significantly higher
    than 2008. Net revenues in commodities were also particularly
    strong and were slightly higher than 2008, while net revenues in
    currencies were strong, but lower than a particularly strong
    2008. During 2009, mortgages included a loss of approximately
    $1.5 billion (excluding hedges) on commercial mortgage
    loans. Results in 2008 were negatively impacted by asset
    writedowns across
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities, corporate debt, private and
    public equities, and residential and commercial mortgage loans
    and securities. The increase in Principal Investments reflected
    gains on corporate principal investments and our investment in
    the ordinary shares of ICBC compared with net losses in 2008. In
    2009, results in Principal Investments included a gain of
    $1.58 billion related to our investment in the ordinary
    shares of ICBC, a gain of $1.31 billion from corporate
    principal investments and a loss of $1.76 billion from real
    estate principal investments. Net revenues in Equities for 2009
    reflected strong results in the client franchise businesses.
    However, results in the client franchise businesses were lower
    than a strong 2008 and included significantly lower commissions.
    Results in principal strategies were positive compared with
    losses in 2008. During 2009, Equities operated in an environment
    characterized by a significant increase in global equity prices,
    favorable market opportunities and a significant decline in
    volatility levels.

Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services
    decreased significantly compared with 2008, reflecting
    significantly lower net revenues in Securities Services, as well
    as lower net revenues in Asset Management. The decrease in
    Securities Services primarily reflected the impact of lower
    customer balances, reflecting lower hedge fund industry assets
    and reduced leverage. The decrease in Asset Management primarily
    reflected the impact of changes in the composition of assets
    managed, principally due to equity market depreciation during
    the fourth quarter of 2008, as well as lower incentive fees.
    During the year ended December 31, 2009, assets under
    management increased $73 billion to $871 billion, due
    to $76 billion of market appreciation, primarily in fixed
    income and equity assets, partially offset by $3 billion of
    net outflows. Outflows in money market assets were offset by
    inflows in fixed income assets.

Net revenues in Investment Banking decreased compared with 2008,
    reflecting significantly lower net revenues in Financial
    Advisory, partially offset by higher net revenues in our
    Underwriting business. The decrease in Financial Advisory
    reflected a decline in
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions. The increase in Underwriting
    reflected higher net revenues in equity underwriting, primarily
    reflecting an increase in
     industry-wide 
    equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings. Net revenues in debt underwriting were slightly lower
    than in 2008.

2008 versus 2007.   Our net revenues were
    $22.22 billion in 2008, a decrease of 52% compared with
    2007, reflecting a particularly difficult operating environment,
    including significant asset price declines, high levels of
    volatility and reduced levels of liquidity, particularly in the
    fourth quarter. In addition, credit markets experienced
    significant dislocation between prices for cash instruments and
    the related derivative contracts and between credit indices and
    underlying single names. Net revenues in Trading and Principal
    Investments were significantly lower compared with 2007,
    reflecting significant declines in FICC, Principal Investments
    and Equities. The decrease in FICC primarily reflected losses in
    credit products, which included a loss of approximately
    $3.1 billion (net of hedges) related to
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities and losses from investments,
    including corporate debt and private and public equities.
    Results in mortgages included net losses of approximately

77

Table of Contents   

$1.7 billion on residential mortgage loans and securities
    and approximately $1.4 billion on commercial mortgage loans
    and securities. Interest rate products, currencies and
    commodities each produced particularly strong results and net
    revenues were higher compared with 2007. During 2008, although
    client-driven activity was generally solid, FICC operated in a
    challenging environment characterized by
     broad-based 
    declines in asset values, wider mortgage and corporate credit
    spreads, reduced levels of liquidity and
     broad-based 
    investor deleveraging, particularly in the second half of the
    year. The decline in Principal Investments primarily reflected
    net losses of $2.53 billion from corporate principal
    investments and $949 million from real estate principal
    investments, as well as a $446 million loss from our
    investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC. In Equities, the
    decrease compared with particularly strong net revenues in 2007
    reflected losses in principal strategies, partially offset by
    higher net revenues in our client franchise businesses.
    Commissions were particularly strong and were higher than 2007.
    During 2008, Equities operated in an environment characterized
    by a significant decline in global equity prices,
     broad-based 
    investor deleveraging and very high levels of volatility,
    particularly in the second half of the year.

Net revenues in Investment Banking also declined significantly
    compared with 2007, reflecting significantly lower net revenues
    in both Financial Advisory and Underwriting. In Financial
    Advisory, the decrease compared with particularly strong net
    revenues in 2007 reflected a decline in
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions. The decrease in Underwriting
    primarily reflected significantly lower net revenues in debt
    underwriting, primarily due to a decline in leveraged finance
    and
     mortgage-related 
    activity, reflecting difficult market conditions. Net revenues
    in equity underwriting were slightly lower compared with 2007,
    reflecting a decrease in
     industry-wide 
    equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings.

Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services
    increased compared with 2007. Securities Services net revenues
    were higher, reflecting the impact of changes in the composition
    of securities lending customer balances, as well as higher total
    average customer balances. Asset Management net revenues
    increased slightly compared with 2007. During the year, assets
    under management decreased $89 billion to
    $779 billion, due to $123 billion of market
    depreciation, primarily in equity assets, partially offset by
    $34 billion of net inflows.

One Month Ended December 2008.   Our net
    revenues were $183 million for the month of
    December 2008. These results reflected a continuation of
    the difficult operating environment experienced during our
    fiscal fourth quarter of 2008, particularly across global equity
    and credit markets. Trading and Principal Investments recorded
    negative net revenues of $507 million. Results in Principal
    Investments reflected net losses of $529 million from real
    estate principal investments and $501 million from
    corporate principal investments, partially offset by a gain of
    $228 million related to our investment in the ordinary
    shares of ICBC. Results in FICC included a loss in credit
    products of approximately $1 billion (net of hedges)
    related to
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities, primarily reflecting a writedown
    of approximately $850 million related to the bridge and
    bank loan facilities held in LyondellBasell Finance Company. In
    addition, results in mortgages included a loss of approximately
    $625 million (excluding hedges) on commercial mortgage
    loans and securities. Interest rate products, currencies and
    commodities each produced strong results for the month of
    December 2008. During the month of December, although
    market opportunities were favorable for certain businesses, FICC
    operated in an environment generally characterized by continued
    weakness in the broader credit markets. Results in Equities
    reflected lower commission volumes and lower net revenues from
    derivatives compared with average monthly levels in 2008, as
    well as weak results in principal strategies. During the month
    of December, Equities operated in an environment characterized
    by continued weakness in global equity markets and continued
    high levels of volatility.

Net revenues in Investment Banking were $135 million for
    the month of December and reflected very low levels of activity
    in
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions, as well as continued
    challenging market conditions across equity and leveraged
    finance markets, which adversely affected our Underwriting
    business.

78

Table of Contents   

Net revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services were
    $555 million for the month of December, reflecting Asset
    Management net revenues of $319 million and Securities
    Services net revenues of $236 million. During the calendar
    month of December, assets under management increased
    $19 billion to $798 billion due to $13 billion of
    market appreciation, primarily in fixed income and equity
    assets, and $6 billion of net inflows. Net inflows
    reflected inflows in money market assets, partially offset by
    outflows in fixed income, equity and alternative investment
    assets. Net revenues in Securities Services reflected favorable
    changes in the composition of securities lending balances, but
    were negatively impacted by a decline in total average customer
    balances.

Operating
    Expenses   

Our operating expenses are primarily influenced by compensation,
    headcount and levels of business activity. Compensation and
    benefits expenses includes salaries, discretionary compensation,
    amortization of equity awards and other items such as payroll
    taxes, severance costs and benefits. Discretionary compensation
    is significantly impacted by, among other factors, the level of
    net revenues, prevailing labor markets, business mix and the
    structure of our
     share-based 
    compensation programs. Our ratio of compensation and benefits to
    net revenues was 35.8% for 2009 and represented our lowest
    annual ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues. While
    net revenues for 2009 were only 2% lower than our record net
    revenues in 2007, total compensation and benefits expenses for
    2009 were 20% lower than 2007. For 2008, our ratio of
    compensation and benefits (excluding severance costs of
    approximately $275 million in the fourth quarter of
    2008) to net revenues was 48.0%. Our compensation expense
    can vary from year to year and is based on our performance,
    prevailing labor markets and other factors. Our record low
    compensation ratio for 2009 reflects both very strong net
    revenues and the broader environment in which we currently
    operate.

On December 9, 2009, the United Kingdom proposed
    legislation that would impose a
     non-deductible 
    50% tax on certain financial institutions in respect of
    discretionary bonuses in excess of  25,000 awarded under
    arrangements made between December 9, 2009 and
    April 5, 2010 to  relevant banking
    employees.  We are currently evaluating the impact of the
    draft legislation on our results of operations. However, since
    this legislation is in draft form, certain details surrounding
    the tax have not been finalized. The impact of the tax will be
    recorded when the legislation is enacted, which is currently
    expected to occur in the second quarter of 2010.

79

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth our operating expenses and total
    staff:

Operating
    Expenses and Total Staff 
       ($ in
    millions)

(1)   

Beginning in the second quarter of
    2009,  Amortization of identifiable intangible assets 
    is included in  Depreciation and amortization  in the
    consolidated statements of earnings. Prior periods have been
    reclassified to conform to the current presentation.

(2)   

Includes employees, consultants and
    temporary staff.

(3)   

Compensation and benefits and
     non-compensation 
    expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment
    purposes are included in their respective line items in the
    consolidated statements of earnings. Consolidated entities held
    for investment purposes are entities that are held strictly for
    capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are
    engaged in activities that are not closely related to our
    principal businesses.

2009 versus 2008.   Operating expenses of
    $25.34 billion for 2009 increased 27% compared with 2008.
    Compensation and benefits expenses (including salaries,
    discretionary compensation, amortization of equity awards and
    other items such as payroll taxes, severance costs and benefits)
    of $16.19 billion were higher compared with 2008, due to
    higher net revenues. Our ratio of compensation and benefits to
    net revenues for 2009 was 35.8%, down from 48.0% (excluding
    severance costs of approximately $275 million in the fourth
    quarter of 2008) for 2008. In 2009, compensation was
    reduced by $500 million to fund a charitable contribution
    to Goldman Sachs Gives, our donor-advised fund. Total staff
    decreased 2% during 2009. Total staff including consolidated
    entities held for investment purposes decreased 5% during 2009.

Non-compensation 
    expenses of $9.15 billion for 2009 increased 2% compared
    with 2008. The increase compared with 2008 reflected the impact
    of charitable contributions of approximately $850 million
    (included in other expenses) during 2009, primarily including
    $310 million to The Goldman Sachs Foundation and
    $500 million to Goldman Sachs Gives. Compensation was
    reduced to fund the charitable contribution to Goldman Sachs
    Gives. The focus for this $500 million contribution to
    Goldman Sachs Gives is on those areas that have proven to be
    fundamental to creating jobs and economic growth, building and
    stabilizing communities, honoring service and veterans and
    increasing educational opportunities. We will ask our
    participating managing directors to make recommendations
    regarding potential charitable recipients for this contribution.
    Depreciation and amortization expenses also increased compared
    with 2008 and included real estate impairment

80

Table of Contents   

charges of approximately $600 million related to
    consolidated entities held for investment purposes during 2009.
    The real estate impairment charges, which were measured based on
    discounted cash flow analysis, are included in our Trading and
    Principal Investments segment and reflected weakness in the
    commercial real estate markets, particularly in Asia. These
    increases were partially offset by the impact of lower
    brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, principally
    reflecting lower transaction volumes in Equities, and the impact
    of reduced staff levels and expense reduction initiatives during
    2009.

2008 versus 2007.   Operating expenses of
    $19.89 billion for 2008 decreased 30% compared with 2007.
    Compensation and benefits expenses (including salaries,
    discretionary compensation, amortization of equity awards and
    other items such as payroll taxes, severance costs and benefits)
    of $10.93 billion decreased 46% compared with 2007,
    reflecting lower levels of discretionary compensation due to
    lower net revenues. For 2008, our ratio of compensation and
    benefits (excluding severance costs of approximately
    $275 million in the fourth quarter of 2008) to net
    revenues was 48.0%. Our ratio of compensation and benefits to
    net revenues was 43.9% for 2007. Total staff decreased 3% during
    2008. Total staff including consolidated entities held for
    investment purposes decreased 2% during 2008.

Non-compensation 
    expenses of $8.95 billion for 2008 increased 9% compared
    with 2007. The increase compared with 2007 was principally
    attributable to higher depreciation and amortization expenses,
    primarily reflecting the impact of real estate impairment
    charges related to consolidated entities held for investment
    purposes during 2008, and higher brokerage, clearing, exchange
    and distribution fees, primarily due to increased activity
    levels in Equities and FICC.

One Month Ended December 2008.   Operating
    expenses were $1.44 billion for the month of
    December 2008. Compensation and benefits expenses
    (including salaries, amortization of equity awards and other
    items such as payroll taxes, severance costs and benefits) were
    $744 million. No discretionary compensation was accrued for
    the month of December. Total staff decreased 3% compared with
    the end of fiscal year 2008. Total staff including consolidated
    entities held for investment purposes decreased 3% compared with
    the end of fiscal year 2008.

Non-compensation 
    expenses of $697 million for the month of
    December 2008 were generally lower than average monthly
    levels in 2008, primarily reflecting lower levels of business
    activity. Total
     non-compensation 
    expenses included $68 million of net provisions for a
    number of litigation and regulatory proceedings.

Provision for
    Taxes   

During 2009, the firm incurred $6.44 billion of corporate
    taxes, resulting in an effective income tax rate of 32.5%. The
    effective income tax rate for 2008 was approximately 1% and the
    effective income tax rate for 2007 was 34.1%. The increase in
    the effective income tax rate for 2009 compared with 2008 was
    primarily due to changes in the geographic earnings mix and a
    decrease in permanent benefits as a percentage of higher
    earnings. The effective tax rate for 2009 represents a return to
    a geographic earnings mix that is more in line with our historic
    earnings mix. The decrease in the effective income tax rate for
    2008 compared with 2007 was primarily due to an increase in
    permanent benefits as a percentage of lower earnings and changes
    in geographic earnings mix. During 2008, we incurred losses in
    various U.S. and
     non-U.S. entities 
    whose income/(losses) are subject to tax in the U.S. We
    also had profitable operations in certain
     non-U.S. entities 
    that are taxed at their applicable local tax rates, which are
    generally lower than the U.S. rate. The effective income
    tax rate for the month of December 2008 was 38.0%.

Effective January 1, 2010, the rules related to the
    deferral of U.S. tax on certain
     non-repatriated 
    active financing income expired. We are currently assessing the
    impact but do not expect this change to be material to our
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows for
    2010.

81

Table of Contents   

Our effective income tax rate can vary from period to period
    depending on, among other factors, the geographic and business
    mix of our earnings, the level of our
     pre-tax 
    earnings, the level of our tax credits and the effect of tax
    audits. Certain of these and other factors, including our
    history of
     pre-tax 
    earnings, are taken into account in assessing our ability to
    realize our net deferred tax assets. See Note 16 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our provision for taxes.

Segment Operating
    Results  

The following table sets forth the net revenues, operating
    expenses and
     pre-tax 
    earnings of our segments:

Segment Operating
    Results 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Operating expenses include net provisions for a number of
    litigation and regulatory proceedings of $104 million, $(4)
    million, $37 million and $68 million for the years
    ended December 2009, November 2008 and
    November 2007 and one month ended December 2008,
    respectively, that have not been allocated to our segments.

Net revenues in our segments include allocations of interest
    income and interest expense to specific securities, commodities
    and other positions in relation to the cash generated by, or
    funding requirements of, such underlying positions. See
    Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our business segments.

The cost drivers of Goldman Sachs taken as a whole  
    compensation, headcount and levels of business
    activity   are broadly similar in each of our business
    segments. Compensation and benefits expenses within our segments
    reflect, among other factors, the overall performance of Goldman
    Sachs as well as the performance of individual business units.
    Consequently,
     pre-tax 
    margins in one segment of our business may be significantly
    affected by the performance of our other business segments. A
    discussion of segment operating results follows.

82

Table of Contents   

Investment
    Banking   

Our Investment Banking segment is divided into two components:

Financial Advisory.   Financial Advisory
    includes advisory assignments with respect to mergers and
    acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense activities,
    restructurings and
     spin-offs. 

Underwriting.   Underwriting includes public
    offerings and private placements of a wide range of securities
    and other financial instruments.

The following table sets forth the operating results of our
    Investment Banking segment:

Investment
    Banking Operating Results 
       (in
    millions)

The following table sets forth our financial advisory and
    underwriting transaction volumes:

Goldman Sachs
    Global Investment Banking
    Volumes   
     (1) 

     (in billions)

(1)   

Announced and completed mergers and
    acquisitions volumes are based on full credit to each of the
    advisors in a transaction. Equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings and debt offerings are based on full credit for single
    book managers and equal credit for joint book managers.
    Transaction volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a
    given period. In addition, transaction volumes for prior periods
    may vary from amounts previously reported due to the subsequent
    withdrawal or a change in the value of a transaction.

(2)   

Source: Dealogic.

(3)   

Source: Thomson Reuters. Includes
    Rule 144A and public common stock offerings, convertible
    offerings and rights offerings.

(4)   

Source: Thomson Reuters. Includes
     non-convertible 
    preferred stock,
     mortgage-backed 
    securities,
     asset-backed 
    securities and taxable municipal debt. Includes publicly
    registered and Rule 144A issues. Excludes leveraged loans.

83

Table of Contents   

2009 versus 2008.   Net revenues in Investment
    Banking of $4.80 billion for 2009 decreased 7% compared
    with 2008.

Net revenues in Financial Advisory of $1.89 billion
    decreased 29% compared with 2008, reflecting a decline in
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions. Net revenues in our
    Underwriting business of $2.90 billion increased 15%
    compared with 2008, due to higher net revenues in equity
    underwriting, primarily reflecting an increase in
     industry-wide 
    equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings. Net revenues in debt underwriting were slightly lower
    than in 2008. Our investment banking transaction backlog
    increased significantly during the twelve months ended
    December 31, 2009.
     (1) 

Operating expenses of $3.53 billion for 2009 increased 12%
    compared with 2008, due to increased compensation and benefits
    expenses.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings of $1.27 billion in 2009 decreased 38% compared
    with 2008.

2008 versus 2007.   Net revenues in Investment
    Banking of $5.19 billion for 2008 decreased 31% compared
    with 2007.

Net revenues in Financial Advisory of $2.66 billion
    decreased 37% compared with particularly strong net revenues in
    2007, primarily reflecting a decline in
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions. Net revenues in our
    Underwriting business of $2.53 billion decreased 24%
    compared with 2007, principally due to significantly lower net
    revenues in debt underwriting. The decrease in debt underwriting
    was primarily due to a decline in leveraged finance and
     mortgage-related 
    activity, reflecting difficult market conditions. Net revenues
    in equity underwriting were slightly lower compared with 2007,
    reflecting a decrease in
     industry-wide 
    equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings. Our investment banking transaction backlog ended the
    year significantly lower than at the end of 2007.
     (1) 

Operating expenses of $3.14 billion for 2008 decreased 37%
    compared with 2007, due to decreased compensation and benefits
    expenses, resulting from lower levels of discretionary
    compensation.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings of $2.04 billion in 2008 decreased 21% compared
    with 2007.

One Month Ended December 2008.   Net
    revenues in Investment Banking were $135 million for the
    month of December 2008. Net revenues in Financial Advisory
    were $72 million, reflecting very low levels of
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions activity. Net revenues in our
    Underwriting business were $63 million, reflecting
    continued challenging market conditions across equity and
    leveraged finance markets. Our investment banking transaction
    backlog decreased from the end of fiscal year 2008.
     (1) 

Operating expenses were $169 million for the month of
    December 2008.
     Pre-tax  loss
    was $34 million for the month of December 2008.

(1)  Our

    investment banking transaction backlog represents an estimate of
    our future net revenues from investment banking transactions
    where we believe that future revenue realization is more likely
    than not.

84

Table of Contents   

Trading and
    Principal Investments   

Our Trading and Principal Investments segment is divided into
    three components:

FICC.   We make markets in and trade interest
    rate and credit products,
     mortgage-related 
    securities and loan products and other
     asset-backed 
    instruments, currencies and commodities, structure and enter
    into a wide variety of derivative transactions, and engage in
    proprietary trading and investing.

Equities.   We make markets in and trade
    equities and
     equity-related 
    products, structure and enter into equity derivative
    transactions and engage in proprietary trading. We generate
    commissions from executing and clearing client transactions on
    major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide through our
    Equities client franchise and clearing activities. We also
    engage in exchange-based
     market-making 
    activities and in insurance activities.

Principal Investments.   We make real estate and
    corporate principal investments, including our investment in the
    ordinary shares of ICBC. We generate net revenues from returns
    on these investments and from the increased share of the income
    and gains derived from our merchant banking funds when the
    return on a fund s investments over the life of the fund
    exceeds certain threshold returns (typically referred to as an
    override).

Substantially all of our inventory is
     marked-to-market 
    daily and, therefore, its value and our net revenues are subject
    to fluctuations based on market movements. In addition, net
    revenues derived from our principal investments, including those
    in privately held concerns and in real estate, may fluctuate
    significantly depending on the revaluation of these investments
    in any given period. We also regularly enter into large
    transactions as part of our trading businesses. The number and
    size of such transactions may affect our results of operations
    in a given period.

Net revenues from Principal Investments do not include
    management fees generated from our merchant banking funds. These
    management fees are included in the net revenues of the Asset
    Management and Securities Services segment.

85

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth the operating results of our
    Trading and Principal Investments segment:

Trading and
    Principal Investments Operating Results 
       (in
    millions)

2009 versus 2008.   Net revenues in Trading and
    Principal Investments of $34.37 billion for 2009 increased
    significantly compared with 2008.

Net revenues in FICC of $23.32 billion for 2009 increased
    significantly compared with 2008. During 2009, FICC operated in
    an environment characterized by strong client-driven activity,
    particularly in more liquid products. In addition, asset values
    generally improved and corporate credit spreads tightened
    significantly for most of the year. The increase in net revenues
    compared with 2008 reflected particularly strong performances in
    credit products, mortgages and interest rate products, which
    were each significantly higher than 2008. Net revenues in
    commodities were also particularly strong and were slightly
    higher than 2008, while net revenues in currencies were strong,
    but lower than a particularly strong 2008. During 2009,
    mortgages included a loss of approximately $1.5 billion
    (excluding hedges) on commercial mortgage loans. Results in 2008
    were negatively impacted by asset writedowns across
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities, corporate debt, private and
    public equities, and residential and commercial mortgage loans
    and securities.

Net revenues in Equities of $9.89 billion for 2009
    increased 7% compared with 2008. Net revenues for 2009 reflected
    strong results in the client franchise businesses. However,
    these results were lower than a strong 2008 and included
    significantly lower commissions. Results in principal strategies
    were positive compared with losses in 2008. During 2009,
    Equities operated in an environment characterized by a
    significant increase in global equity prices, favorable market
    opportunities and a significant decline in volatility levels.

Principal Investments recorded net revenues of
    $1.17 billion for 2009. These results included a gain of
    $1.58 billion related to our investment in the ordinary
    shares of ICBC, a gain of $1.31 billion from corporate
    principal investments and a loss of $1.76 billion from real
    estate principal investments.

86

Table of Contents   

Operating expenses of $17.05 billion for 2009 increased 44%
    compared with 2008, due to increased compensation and benefits
    expenses, resulting from higher net revenues. In addition,
    depreciation and amortization expenses were higher than 2008,
    reflecting the impact of real estate impairment charges of
    approximately $600 million related to consolidated entities
    held for investment purposes during 2009, while brokerage,
    clearing, exchange and distribution fees were lower than 2008,
    principally reflecting lower transaction volumes in Equities.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings were $17.32 billion in 2009 compared with a
     pre-tax  loss
    of $2.75 billion in 2008.

2008 versus 2007.   Net revenues in Trading and
    Principal Investments of $9.06 billion for 2008 decreased
    71% compared with 2007.

Net revenues in FICC of $3.71 billion for 2008 decreased
    77% compared with 2007, primarily reflecting losses in credit
    products, which included a loss of approximately
    $3.1 billion (net of hedges) related to
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities and losses from investments,
    including corporate debt and private and public equities.
    Results in mortgages included net losses of approximately
    $1.7 billion on residential mortgage loans and securities
    and approximately $1.4 billion on commercial mortgage loans
    and securities. Interest rate products, currencies and
    commodities each produced particularly strong results and net
    revenues were higher compared with 2007. During 2008, although
    client-driven activity was generally solid, FICC operated in a
    challenging environment characterized by
     broad-based 
    declines in asset values, wider mortgage and corporate credit
    spreads, reduced levels of liquidity and
     broad-based 
    investor deleveraging, particularly in the second half of the
    year.

Net revenues in Equities of $9.21 billion for 2008
    decreased 19% compared with a particularly strong 2007,
    reflecting losses in principal strategies, partially offset by
    higher net revenues in the client franchise businesses.
    Commissions were particularly strong and were higher than 2007.
    During 2008, Equities operated in an environment characterized
    by a significant decline in global equity prices,
     broad-based 
    investor deleveraging and very high levels of volatility,
    particularly in the second half of the year.

Principal Investments recorded a net loss of $3.86 billion
    for 2008. These results included net losses of
    $2.53 billion from corporate principal investments and
    $949 million from real estate principal investments, as
    well as a $446 million loss related to our investment in
    the ordinary shares of ICBC.

Operating expenses of $11.81 billion for 2008 decreased 34%
    compared with 2007, due to decreased compensation and benefits
    expenses, resulting from lower levels of discretionary
    compensation. This decrease was partially offset by increased
    depreciation and amortization expenses, primarily reflecting the
    impact of real estate impairment charges related to consolidated
    entities held for investment purposes during 2008, and higher
    brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution fees, primarily
    reflecting increased activity levels in Equities and FICC.
     Pre-tax  loss
    was $2.75 billion in 2008 compared with
     pre-tax 
    earnings of $13.23 billion in 2007.

One Month Ended December 2008.   Trading
    and Principal Investments recorded negative net revenues of
    $507 million for the month of December 2008.

FICC recorded negative net revenues of $320 million for the
    month of December 2008. Results in credit products included
    a loss of approximately $1 billion (net of hedges) related
    to
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities, primarily reflecting a writedown
    of approximately $850 million related to the bridge and
    bank loan facilities held in LyondellBasell Finance Company. In
    addition, results in mortgages included a loss of approximately
    $625 million (excluding hedges) on commercial mortgage
    loans and securities. Interest rate products, currencies and
    commodities each produced strong results for the month of
    December 2008. During the month of December, although
    market opportunities were favorable for certain businesses, FICC
    operated in an environment generally characterized by continued
    weakness in the broader credit markets.

87

Table of Contents   

Net revenues in Equities were $614 million for the month of
    December 2008. These results reflected lower commission
    volumes and lower net revenues from derivatives compared with
    average monthly levels in 2008, as well as weak results in
    principal strategies. During the month of December, Equities
    operated in an environment characterized by continued weakness
    in global equity markets and continued high levels of volatility.

Principal Investments recorded a net loss of $801 million
    for the month of December 2008. These results included net
    losses of $529 million from real estate principal
    investments and $501 million from corporate principal
    investments, partially offset by a gain of $228 million
    related to our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC.

Operating expenses were $875 million for the month of
    December 2008.
     Pre-tax  loss
    was $1.38 billion for the month of December 2008.

Asset
    Management and Securities Services   

Our Asset Management and Securities Services segment is divided
    into two components:

Asset Management.   Asset Management provides
    investment and wealth advisory services and offers investment
    products (primarily through separately managed accounts and
    commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and private investment
    funds) across all major asset classes to a diverse group of
    institutions and individuals worldwide and primarily generates
    revenues in the form of management and incentive fees.

Securities Services.   Securities Services
    provides prime brokerage services, financing services and
    securities lending services to institutional clients, including
    hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide, and generates revenues primarily in the
    form of interest rate spreads or fees.

Assets under management typically generate fees as a percentage
    of asset value, which is affected by investment performance and
    by inflows and redemptions. The fees that we charge vary by
    asset class, as do our related expenses. In certain
    circumstances, we are also entitled to receive incentive fees
    based on a percentage of a fund s return or when the return
    on assets under management exceeds specified benchmark returns
    or other performance targets. Incentive fees are recognized when
    the performance period ends (in most cases, on December
    31) and they are no longer subject to adjustment.

88

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth the operating results of our
    Asset Management and Securities Services segment:

Asset Management
    and Securities Services Operating Results 
       (in
    millions)

Assets under management include assets in our mutual funds,
    alternative investment funds and separately managed accounts for
    institutional and individual investors. Substantially all assets
    under management are valued as of calendar month-end. Assets
    under management do not include:

assets in brokerage accounts that generate commissions,
     mark-ups  and
    spreads based on transactional activity;

our own investments in funds that we manage; or

non-fee-paying 
    assets, including interest-bearing deposits held through our
    bank depository institution subsidiaries.

The following table sets forth our assets under management by
    asset class:

Assets Under
    Management by Asset Class 
       (in
    billions)

(1)   

Primarily includes hedge funds,
    private equity, real estate, currencies, commodities and asset
    allocation strategies.

89

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth a summary of the changes in our
    assets under management:

Changes in Assets
    Under Management 
       (in
    billions)

(1)   

Includes market appreciation of
    $13 billion and net inflows of $6 billion during the
    calendar month of December 2008.

(2)   

Includes $7 billion in net
    asset inflows in connection with our acquisition of
    Macquarie   IMM Investment Management.

2009 versus 2008.   Net revenues in Asset
    Management and Securities Services of $6.00 billion for
    2009 decreased 25% compared with 2008.

Asset Management net revenues of $3.97 billion for 2009
    decreased 13% compared with 2008, primarily reflecting the
    impact of changes in the composition of assets managed,
    principally due to equity market depreciation during the fourth
    quarter of 2008, as well as lower incentive fees. During the
    year ended December 31, 2009, assets under management
    increased $73 billion to $871 billion, due to
    $76 billion of market appreciation, primarily in fixed
    income and equity assets, partially offset by $3 billion of
    net outflows. Outflows in money market assets were offset by
    inflows in fixed income assets.

Securities Services net revenues of $2.03 billion decreased
    41% compared with 2008. The decrease in net revenues primarily
    reflected the impact of lower customer balances, reflecting
    lower hedge fund industry assets and reduced leverage.

Operating expenses of $4.66 billion for 2009 decreased 6%
    compared with 2008, due to decreased compensation and benefits
    expenses.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings of $1.34 billion in 2009 decreased 56% compared
    with 2008.

2008 versus 2007.   Net revenues in Asset
    Management and Securities Services of $7.97 billion for
    2008 increased 11% compared with 2007.

Asset Management net revenues of $4.55 billion for 2008
    increased 1% compared with 2007. During 2008, assets under
    management decreased $89 billion to $779 billion, due
    to $123 billion of market depreciation, primarily in equity
    assets, partially offset by $34 billion of net inflows. Net
    inflows reflected inflows in money market, fixed income and
    alternative investment assets, partially offset by outflows in
    equity assets.

Securities Services net revenues of $3.42 billion for 2008
    increased 26% compared with 2007, reflecting the impact of
    changes in the composition of securities lending customer
    balances, as well as higher total average customer balances.

90

Table of Contents   

Operating expenses of $4.94 billion for 2008 decreased 8%
    compared with 2007, due to decreased compensation and benefits
    expenses, resulting from lower levels of discretionary
    compensation.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings of $3.04 billion in 2008 increased 65% compared
    with 2007.

One Month Ended December 2008.   Net
    revenues in Asset Management and Securities Services were
    $555 million for the month of December 2008.

Asset Management net revenues were $319 million for the
    month of December 2008. During the calendar month of
    December, assets under management increased $19 billion to
    $798 billion due to $13 billion of market
    appreciation, primarily in fixed income and equity assets, and
    $6 billion of net inflows. Net inflows reflected inflows in
    money market assets, partially offset by outflows in fixed
    income, equity and alternative investment assets.

Securities Services net revenues were $236 million for the
    month of December 2008. These results reflected favorable
    changes in the composition of securities lending balances, but
    were negatively impacted by a decline in total average customer
    balances.

Operating expenses were $329 million for the month of
    December 2008.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings were $226 million for the month of
    December 2008.

Geographic
    Data  

See Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a summary of our total net revenues,
     pre-tax 
    earnings and net earnings by geographic region.

Off-Balance-Sheet 
    Arrangements  

We have various types of
     off-balance-sheet 
    arrangements that we enter into in the ordinary course of
    business. Our involvement in these arrangements can take many
    different forms, including purchasing or retaining residual and
    other interests in
     mortgage-backed 
    and other
     asset-backed 
    securitization vehicles; holding senior and subordinated debt,
    interests in limited and general partnerships, and preferred and
    common stock in other nonconsolidated vehicles; entering into
    interest rate, foreign currency, equity, commodity and credit
    derivatives, including total return swaps; entering into
    operating leases; and providing guarantees, indemnifications,
    loan commitments, letters of credit and representations and
    warranties.

We enter into these arrangements for a variety of business
    purposes, including the securitization of commercial and
    residential mortgages, corporate bonds, and other types of
    financial assets. Other reasons for entering into these
    arrangements include underwriting client securitization
    transactions; providing secondary market liquidity; making
    investments in performing and nonperforming debt, equity, real
    estate and other assets; providing investors with
     credit-linked 
    and
     asset-repackaged 
    notes; and receiving or providing letters of credit to satisfy
    margin requirements and to facilitate the clearance and
    settlement process.

We engage in transactions with variable interest entities
    (VIEs), including VIEs that were considered qualifying
     special-purpose 
    entities (QSPEs) prior to our adoption of Accounting Standards
    Update
     2009-16, 
     Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860)   Accounting
    for Transfers of Financial Assets,  in the first quarter of
    2010.
     Asset-backed 
    financing vehicles are critical to the functioning of several
    significant investor markets, including the
     mortgage-backed 
    and other
     asset-backed 
    securities markets, since they offer investors access to
    specific cash flows and risks created through the securitization
    process. Our financial interests in, and derivative transactions
    with, such nonconsolidated entities are accounted for at fair
    value, in the same manner as our other financial instruments,
    except in cases where we apply the equity method of accounting.

We did not have
     off-balance-sheet 
    commitments to purchase or finance any CDOs held by structured
    investment vehicles as of December 2009 or
    November 2008.

91

Table of Contents   

In December 2007, the American Securitization Forum (ASF)
    issued the  Streamlined Foreclosure and Loss Avoidance
    Framework for Securitized Subprime Adjustable Rate Mortgage
    Loans  (ASF Framework). The ASF Framework provides guidance
    for servicers to streamline borrower evaluation procedures and
    to facilitate the use of foreclosure and loss prevention
    measures for securitized subprime residential mortgages that
    meet certain criteria. For certain eligible loans as defined in
    the ASF Framework, servicers may presume default is reasonably
    foreseeable and apply a
     fast-track 
    loan modification plan, under which the loan interest rate will
    be kept at the then current rate for a period up to five years
    following the upcoming reset date. Mortgage loan modifications
    of these eligible loans did not affect our accounting treatment
    for QSPEs that hold the subprime loans.

The following table sets forth where a discussion of
     off-balance-sheet 
    arrangements may be found in Part II, Items 7 and 8 of
    our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K: 

Type of Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangement 

Disclosure in Annual Report on Form 10-K 

Retained interests or other continuing involvement relating to
    assets transferred by us to nonconsolidated entities

See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Leases, letters of credit, and loans and other commitments

See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K and
       Contractual Obligations  below.

Guarantees

See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Other obligations, including contingent obligations, arising out
    of variable interests we have in nonconsolidated entities

See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Derivative contracts

See
        Critical 
    Accounting Policies  above, and
        Risk 
    Management  and
        Derivatives  
    below and Notes 3 and 7 to the consolidated financial statements
    in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on Form 10-K.

In addition, see Note 2 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of our consolidation policies and recent
    accounting developments that affected these policies effective
    January 1, 2010.

92

Table of Contents   

Equity
    Capital  

The level and composition of our equity capital are determined
    by multiple factors including our consolidated regulatory
    capital requirements and an internal
     risk-based 
    capital assessment, and may also be influenced by rating agency
    guidelines, subsidiary capital requirements, the business
    environment, conditions in the financial markets and assessments
    of potential future losses due to adverse changes in our
    business and market environments.

Our consolidated regulatory capital requirements are determined
    by the Federal Reserve Board, as described below. Our internal
     risk-based 
    capital assessment is designed to identify and measure material
    risks associated with our business activities, including market
    risk, credit risk and operational risk, in a manner that is
    closely aligned with our risk management practices.

As of December 2009, our total shareholders  equity
    was $70.71 billion (consisting of common shareholders 
    equity of $63.76 billion and preferred stock of
    $6.96 billion). As of November 2008, our total
    shareholders  equity was $64.37 billion (consisting of
    common shareholders  equity of $47.90 billion and
    preferred stock of $16.47 billion). In addition to total
    shareholders  equity, we consider our $5.00 billion of
    junior subordinated debt issued to trusts to be part of our
    equity capital, as it qualifies as capital for regulatory and
    certain rating agency purposes.

Consolidated
    Capital Requirements  

The Federal Reserve Board is the primary U.S. regulator of
    Group Inc., a bank holding company that in August 2009
    also became a financial holding company under the
    U.S. Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act of 1999. As a bank holding
    company, we are subject to consolidated regulatory capital
    requirements administered by the Federal Reserve Board. Under
    the Federal Reserve Board s capital adequacy rules, Goldman
    Sachs must meet specific capital requirements that involve
    quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain
     off-balance-sheet 
    items as calculated under regulatory reporting practices. The
    firm s capital levels are also subject to qualitative
    judgments by its regulators about components, risk weightings
    and other factors.

93

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
    Capital Ratios   

The following table sets forth information regarding our
    consolidated capital ratios as of December 2009 calculated
    in accordance with the Federal Reserve Board s regulatory
    capital requirements currently applicable to bank holding
    companies, which are based on Basel I. These ratios are used by
    the Federal Reserve Board and other U.S. federal banking
    agencies in the supervisory review process, including the
    assessment of our capital adequacy. The calculation of these
    ratios includes certain market risk measures that are under
    review by the Federal Reserve Board. The calculation of these
    ratios has not been reviewed with the Federal Reserve Board and,
    accordingly, these ratios may be revised in subsequent filings.

(1)   

Principally includes equity
    investments in
     non-financial 
    companies and the cumulative change in the fair value of our
    unsecured borrowings attributable to the impact of changes in
    our own credit spreads, disallowed deferred tax assets, and
    investments in certain nonconsolidating entities.

(2)   

Substantially all of our
    subordinated debt qualifies as Tier 2 capital for Basel I
    purposes.

RWAs under the Federal Reserve Board s
     risk-based 
    capital guidelines are calculated based on the amount of market
    risk and credit risk. RWAs for market risk include certain
    measures that are under review by the Federal Reserve Board.
    Credit risk for on-balance sheet assets is based on the balance
    sheet value. For off-balance sheet exposures, including OTC
    derivatives and commitments, a credit equivalent amount is
    calculated based on the notional of each trade. All such assets
    and amounts are then assigned a risk weight depending on, among
    other things, whether the counterparty is a sovereign, bank or
    qualifying securities firm, or other entity (or if collateral is
    held, depending on the nature of the collateral).

Our Tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital
    under Basel I divided by adjusted average total assets (which
    includes adjustments for disallowed goodwill and certain
    intangible assets).

94

Table of Contents   

Federal Reserve Board regulations require bank holding companies
    to maintain a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 4% and a
    minimum total capital ratio of 8%. The required minimum
    Tier 1 capital ratio and total capital ratio in order to be
    considered a  well capitalized  bank holding company
    under the Federal Reserve Board guidelines are 6% and 10%,
    respectively. Bank holding companies may be expected to maintain
    ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon their
    particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. The minimum
    Tier 1 leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that
    have received the highest supervisory rating under Federal
    Reserve Board guidelines or that have implemented the Federal
    Reserve Board s
     risk-based 
    capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies
    must have a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%.

During 2009, the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision proposed
    several changes to the method of computing capital ratios. In
    addition, there are several other proposals which could
    potentially impact capital requirements. As a consequence, it is
    possible that minimum capital ratios required to be maintained
    under Federal Reserve Board regulations could be increased. It
    is also possible that changes in the prescribed calculation
    methodology could result in higher RWAs and lower capital ratios
    than are currently computed.

Subsidiary
    Capital Requirements  

Many of our subsidiaries are subject to separate regulation and
    capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the world. GS
    Bank USA, a New York State-chartered bank and a member of the
    Federal Reserve System and the Federal Deposit Insurance
    Corporation (FDIC), is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board
    and the New York State Banking Department and is subject to
    minimum capital requirements that (subject to certain
    exceptions) are similar to those applicable to bank holding
    companies. GS Bank USA and its subsidiaries are subject to the
    regulatory framework for prompt corrective action (PCA). GS Bank
    USA computes its capital ratios in accordance with the
    regulatory capital guidelines currently applicable to state
    member banks, which are based on Basel I as implemented by the
    Federal Reserve Board, for purposes of assessing the adequacy of
    its capital. GS Bank USA s capital levels and PCA
    classification are subject to qualitative judgments by its
    regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors.

GS Co. and Goldman Sachs Execution   Clearing,
    L.P. are registered
     U.S. broker-dealers 
    and futures commission merchants, and are subject to regulatory
    capital requirements, including those imposed by the SEC, the
    Commodity Futures Trading Commission, the Chicago Board of
    Trade, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. and the
    National Futures Association. Goldman Sachs International (GSI)
    and Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd., our principal
     non-U.S. regulated 
     broker-dealer 
    subsidiaries, are subject to the capital requirements of the
    U.K. s Financial Services Authority and Japan s
    Financial Services Agency, respectively.

See Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information regarding GS Bank USA s capital ratios
    under Basel I as implemented by the Federal Reserve Board, and
    for further information regarding the capital requirements of
    our other regulated subsidiaries.

Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulatory capital
    requirements may hold capital to satisfy local tax guidelines,
    rating agency requirements (for entities with assigned credit
    ratings) or internal policies, including policies concerning the
    minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based on its
    underlying level of risk. In certain instances, Group Inc.
    may be limited in its ability to access capital held at certain
    subsidiaries as a result of regulatory, tax or other
    constraints. As of December 2009, Group Inc. s
    equity investment in subsidiaries was $65.74 billion
    compared with its total shareholders  equity of
    $70.71 billion.

95

Table of Contents   

Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of
    GS Co., GS Bank USA and GS Bank Europe, subject to certain
    exceptions. In November 2008, we contributed subsidiaries
    into GS Bank USA, and Group Inc. agreed to guarantee
    certain losses, including
     credit-related 
    losses, relating to assets held by the contributed entities. In
    connection with this guarantee, Group Inc. also agreed to
    pledge to GS Bank USA certain collateral, including interests in
    subsidiaries and other illiquid assets.

Our capital invested in
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    is generally exposed to foreign exchange risk, substantially all
    of which is managed through a combination of derivative
    contracts and
     non-U.S. 
    denominated debt.

Rating Agency
    Guidelines  

The credit rating agencies assign credit ratings to the
    obligations of Group Inc., which directly issues or
    guarantees substantially all of the firm s senior unsecured
    obligations. GS Bank USA has also been assigned a
     long-term 
    issuer rating as well as ratings on its
     long-term 
    and
     short-term 
    bank deposits. In addition, credit rating agencies have assigned
    ratings to debt obligations of certain other subsidiaries of
    Group Inc.

The level and composition of our equity capital are among the
    many factors considered in determining our credit ratings. Each
    agency has its own definition of eligible capital and
    methodology for evaluating capital adequacy, and assessments are
    generally based on a combination of factors rather than a single
    calculation. See
        Liquidity 
    and Funding Risk   Credit Ratings  below for
    further information regarding our credit ratings.

Equity Capital
    Management  

Our objective is to maintain a sufficient level and optimal
    composition of equity capital. We principally manage our capital
    through issuances and repurchases of our common stock. We may
    also, from time to time, issue or repurchase our preferred
    stock, junior subordinated debt issued to trusts and other
    subordinated debt as business conditions warrant. We manage our
    capital requirements principally by setting limits on balance
    sheet assets
     and/or 
    limits on risk, in each case at both the consolidated and
    business unit levels. We attribute capital usage to each of our
    business units based upon our internal
     risk-based 
    capital framework and manage the levels of usage based upon the
    balance sheet and risk limits established.

Stock Offering.   During the second quarter of
    2009, we completed a public offering of 46.7 million common
    shares at $123.00 per share for total proceeds of
    $5.75 billion.

Preferred Stock.   In June 2009, we
    repurchased from the U.S. Treasury the 10.0 million
    shares of our Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock,
    Series H (Series H Preferred Stock), that were issued
    to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the
    U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program. The
    repurchase resulted in a
     one-time 
    preferred dividend of $426 million, which is included in
    the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended
    December 2009. This
     one-time 
    preferred dividend represented the difference between the
    carrying value and the redemption value of the Series H
    Preferred Stock. In connection with the issuance of the
    Series H Preferred Stock in October 2008, we issued a
     10-year 
    warrant to the U.S. Treasury to purchase up to
    12.2 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of
    $122.90 per share. We repurchased this warrant in full in
    July 2009 for $1.1 billion, which was recorded as a
    reduction to additional
     paid-in 
    capital. Our cumulative payments to the U.S. Treasury
    related to the U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase
    Program totaled $11.42 billion, including the return of the
    U.S. Treasury s $10.0 billion investment
    (inclusive of the $426 million described above),
    $318 million in preferred dividends and $1.1 billion
    related to the warrant repurchase.

96

Table of Contents   

In October 2008, we issued to Berkshire Hathaway and
    certain affiliates 50,000 shares of 10% Cumulative
    Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series G (Series G
    Preferred Stock), and a five-year warrant to purchase up to
    43.5 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of
    $115.00 per share, for aggregate proceeds of $5.00 billion.
    The allocated carrying values of the warrant and the
    Series G Preferred Stock (based on their relative fair
    values on the date of issuance) were $1.14 billion and
    $3.86 billion, respectively. The Series G Preferred
    Stock is redeemable at the firm s option, subject to the
    approval of the Federal Reserve Board, at a redemption value of
    $5.50 billion, plus accrued and unpaid dividends.
    Accordingly, upon a redemption in full at any time in the future
    of the Series G Preferred Stock, we would recognize a
     one-time 
    preferred dividend of $1.64 billion (calculated as the
    difference between the carrying value and redemption value of
    the preferred stock), which would be recorded as a reduction to
    our earnings applicable to common shareholders and to our common
    shareholders  equity in the period of redemption.

Share Repurchase Program.   We seek to use our
    share repurchase program to help maintain the appropriate level
    of common equity and to substantially offset increases in share
    count over time resulting from employee
     share-based 
    compensation. The repurchase program is effected primarily
    through regular
     open-market 
    purchases, the amounts and timing of which are determined
    primarily by our current and projected capital positions
    (i.e., comparisons of our desired level of capital to our
    actual level of capital) but which may also be influenced by
    general market conditions and the prevailing price and trading
    volumes of our common stock. Any repurchase of our common stock
    requires approval by the Federal Reserve Board.

As of December 2009, we were authorized to repurchase up to
    60.8 million additional shares of common stock pursuant to
    our repurchase program, subject to the approval of the Federal
    Reserve Board. See  Market for Registrant s Common
    Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of
    Equity Securities  in Part II, Item 5 and
    Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for additional information on our repurchase program.

See Notes 7 and 9 to the consolidated financial statements
    in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our preferred stock, junior
    subordinated debt issued to trusts and other subordinated debt.

97

Table of Contents   

Capital Ratios
    and Metrics  

The following table sets forth information on our assets,
    shareholders  equity, leverage ratios, capital ratios and
    book value per common share:

(1)   

Adjusted assets excludes
     (i) low-risk 
    collateralized assets generally associated with our matched book
    and securities lending businesses and federal funds sold,
    (ii) cash and securities we segregate for regulatory and
    other purposes and (iii) goodwill and identifiable
    intangible assets which are deducted when calculating tangible
    equity capital (see footnote 2 below).

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of total
    assets to adjusted assets:

(2)   

Tangible equity capital equals
    total shareholders  equity and junior subordinated debt
    issued to trusts less goodwill and identifiable intangible
    assets. We consider junior subordinated debt issued to trusts to
    be a component of our tangible equity capital base due to
    certain characteristics of the debt, including its
     long-term 
    nature, our ability to defer payments due on the debt and the
    subordinated nature of the debt in our capital structure.

98

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of total
    shareholders  equity to tangible equity capital:

(3)   

The leverage ratio equals total
    assets divided by total shareholders  equity. This ratio is
    different from the Tier 1 leverage ratio included above,
    which is described in Note 17 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

(4)   

The adjusted leverage ratio equals
    adjusted assets divided by tangible equity capital. We believe
    that the adjusted leverage ratio is a more meaningful measure of
    our capital adequacy than the leverage ratio because it excludes
    certain
     low-risk 
    collateralized assets that are generally supported with little
    or no capital and reflects the tangible equity capital deployed
    in our businesses.

(5)   

The debt to equity ratio equals
    unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings divided by total shareholders  equity.

(6)   

Tangible common shareholders 
    equity equals total shareholders  equity less preferred
    stock, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Tangible
    book value per common share is computed by dividing tangible
    common shareholders  equity by the number of common shares
    outstanding, including RSUs granted to employees with no future
    service requirements. We believe that tangible common
    shareholders  equity is meaningful because it is one of the
    measures that we and investors use to assess capital adequacy.

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of total
    shareholders  equity to tangible common shareholders 
    equity:

(7)   

Book value and tangible book value
    per common share are based on common shares outstanding,
    including RSUs granted to employees with no future service
    requirements, of 542.7 million and 485.4 million as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.

(8)   

Calculated in accordance with the
    regulatory capital requirements currently applicable to bank
    holding companies. RWAs were $431.89 billion as of
    December 2009 under Basel I. See Note 17 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our regulatory capital ratios.

(9)   

The Tier 1 common ratio equals
    Tier 1 capital less preferred stock and junior subordinated
    debt issued to trusts, divided by RWAs. We believe that the
    Tier 1 common ratio is meaningful because it is one of the
    measures that we and investors use to assess capital adequacy.

The following table sets forth the reconciliation of Tier 1
    capital to Tier 1 common capital:

99

Table of Contents   

Contractual
    Obligations  

Goldman Sachs has contractual obligations to make future
    payments related to our unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, secured
     long-term 
    financings, time deposits,
     long-term 
    noncancelable lease agreements and purchase obligations and has
    commitments under a variety of commercial arrangements.

The following table sets forth our contractual obligations by
    maturity date as of December 2009:

Contractual
    Obligations 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Obligations maturing within one
    year of our financial statement date or redeemable within one
    year of our financial statement date at the option of the holder
    are excluded from this table and are treated as
     short-term 
    obligations. See Note 3 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our secured financings.

(2)   

Obligations that are repayable
    prior to maturity at the option of Goldman Sachs are reflected
    at their contractual maturity dates. Obligations that are
    redeemable prior to maturity at the option of the holder are
    reflected at the dates such options become exercisable.

(3)   

Includes $21.39 billion
    accounted for at fair value under the fair value option,
    primarily consisting of hybrid financial instruments and prepaid
    physical commodity transactions.

(4)   

These obligations are reported in
     Other secured financings  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition and include $8.00 billion
    accounted for at fair value under the fair value option,
    primarily consisting of transfers accounted for as financings
    rather than sales and debt raised through our William Street
    credit extension program.

(5)   

Excludes $2.51 billion of time
    deposits maturing within one year of our financial statement
    date.

(6)   

Represents estimated future
    interest payments related to unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, secured
     long-term 
    financings and time deposits based on applicable interest rates
    as of December 2009. Includes stated coupons, if any, on
    structured notes.

(7)   

Represents estimated undiscounted
    payments related to future benefits and unpaid claims arising
    from policies associated with our insurance activities,
    excluding separate accounts and estimated recoveries under
    reinsurance contracts.

As of December 2009, our unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings were $185.09 billion, with maturities extending
    to 2043, and consisted principally of senior borrowings. See
    Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings.

As of December 2009, our future minimum rental payments,
    net of minimum sublease rentals, under noncancelable leases were
    $3.17 billion. These lease commitments, principally for
    office space, expire on various dates through 2069. Certain
    agreements are subject to periodic escalation provisions for
    increases in real estate taxes and other charges. See
    Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our leases.

100

Table of Contents   

Our occupancy expenses include costs associated with office
    space held in excess of our current requirements. This excess
    space, the cost of which is charged to earnings as incurred, is
    being held for potential growth or to replace currently occupied
    space that we may exit in the future. We regularly evaluate our
    current and future space capacity in relation to current and
    projected staffing levels. In 2009, we incurred exit costs of
    $61 million related to our office space (included in
     Occupancy  and  Depreciation and
    Amortization  in the consolidated statements of earnings).
    We may incur exit costs in the future to the extent we
    (i) reduce our space capacity or (ii) commit to, or
    occupy, new properties in the locations in which we operate and,
    consequently, dispose of existing space that had been held for
    potential growth. These exit costs may be material to our
    results of operations in a given period.

As of December 2009, included in purchase obligations was
    $142 million of
     construction-related 
    obligations. As of December 2009, our
     construction-related 
    obligations include commitments of $104 million related to
    our new headquarters in New York City. Initial occupancy of our
    new headquarters occurred during the fourth quarter of 2009.

Due to the uncertainty of the timing and amounts that will
    ultimately be paid, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits
    has been excluded from the above contractual obligations table.

See Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information regarding our commitments, contingencies and
    guarantees.

Risk
    Management  

Management believes that effective risk management is of primary
    importance to the success of Goldman Sachs. Accordingly, we have
    a comprehensive risk management process to monitor, evaluate and
    manage the principal risks we assume in conducting our
    activities. These risks include market, credit, liquidity,
    operational, legal, regulatory and reputational exposures.

Risk Management
    Structure  

We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a
    variety of separate but complementary financial, credit,
    operational, compliance and legal reporting systems. In
    addition, a number of committees are responsible for monitoring
    risk exposures and for general oversight of our risk management
    process, as described further below. These committees (including
    their subcommittees), meet regularly and consist of senior
    members of both our revenue-producing units and departments that
    are independent of our revenue-producing units.

Segregation of duties and management oversight are fundamental
    elements of our risk management process. In addition to the
    committees described below, functions that are independent of
    the revenue-producing units, such as Compliance, Finance, Legal,
    Management Controls (Internal Audit) and Operations, perform
    risk management functions, which include monitoring, analyzing
    and evaluating risk.

Management Committee.     The Management
    Committee oversees the global activities of the firm, including
    all firm risk control functions. The Committee provides this
    oversight directly and through authority delegated to the
    committees it has established.

Risk Committees.   The Firmwide Risk Committee
    is globally responsible for the ongoing monitoring and control
    of financial risks associated with the activities of the firm.
    Through both direct and delegated authority, the Committee
    approves firmwide, product, divisional and business unit limits
    for both market and credit risks, approves sovereign credit risk
    limits and credit risk limits by ratings groups, and reviews
    stress test and scenario analyses results. The Committee also
    approves new businesses and products.

101

Table of Contents   

The Securities Division Risk Committee sets market risk
    limits for our trading activities, subject to overall firmwide
    risk limits, for the FICC and Equities businesses based on a
    number of risk measures, including VaR, stress tests, scenario
    analyses, and inventory levels.

Business unit risk limits are established by the appropriate
    risk committee and may be further allocated by the business unit
    managers to individual trading desks. Trading desk managers have
    the first line of responsibility for managing risk within
    prescribed limits. These managers have in-depth knowledge of the
    primary sources of risk in their respective markets and the
    instruments available to hedge their exposures.

Market risk limits are monitored by the Finance Division and are
    reviewed regularly by the appropriate risk committee. Limit
    violations are reported to the appropriate risk committee and
    business unit managers and addressed, as necessary. Credit risk
    limits are also monitored by the Finance Division and reviewed
    by the appropriate risk committee.

The Investment Management Division Risk Committee oversees
    market, counterparty credit and liquidity risks related to our
    asset management businesses.

Business Practices Committee.   The Business
    Practices Committee assists senior management in its oversight
    of compliance and operational risks and related reputational
    concerns, seeks to ensure the consistency of our policies,
    practices and procedures with our Business Principles, and makes
    recommendations on ways to mitigate potential risks.

Firmwide Capital Committee.   The Firmwide
    Capital Committee provides approval and oversight of
    debt-related transactions, including principal commitments of
    the firm s capital. Such capital commitments include, but
    are not limited to, extensions of credit, alternative liquidity
    commitments and certain debt underwritings. The Firmwide Capital
    Committee aims to ensure that business and reputational
    standards for underwritings and capital commitments are
    maintained on a global basis.

Commitments Committee.   The Commitments
    Committee reviews and approves underwriting and distribution
    activities, primarily with respect to offerings of equity and
     equity-related 
    securities, and sets and maintains policies and procedures
    designed to ensure that legal, reputational, regulatory and
    business standards are maintained in conjunction with these
    activities. In addition to reviewing specific transactions, the
    Commitments Committee periodically conducts strategic reviews of
    industry sectors and products and establishes policies in
    connection with transaction practices.

Credit Policy Committee.   The Credit Policy
    Committee establishes and reviews broad credit policies and
    parameters that are implemented by the Credit Department.

Finance Committee.   The Finance Committee has
    oversight responsibility for liquidity risk, the size and
    composition of our balance sheet and capital base, and our
    credit ratings. The Finance Committee regularly reviews our
    liquidity, balance sheet, funding position and capitalization
    and makes adjustments in light of current events, risks and
    exposures, and regulatory requirements.

New Products Committee.   The New Products
    Committee, under the oversight of the Firmwide Risk Committee,
    is responsible for reviewing and approving new product proposals.

Operational Risk Committee.   The Operational
    Risk Committee provides oversight of the ongoing development and
    implementation of our operational risk policies, framework and
    methodologies, and monitors the effectiveness of operational
    risk management.

Structured Products Committee.   The Structured
    Products Committee reviews and approves proposed structured
    product transactions to be entered into with our clients that
    raise legal, regulatory, tax or accounting issues or present
    reputational risk to Goldman Sachs.

102

Table of Contents   

Market
    Risk  

The potential for changes in the market value of our trading and
    investing positions is referred to as market risk. Such
    positions result from
     market-making, 
    proprietary trading, underwriting and investing activities.
    Substantially all of our inventory positions are
     marked-to-market 
    on a daily basis and changes are recorded in net revenues.

Categories of market risk include exposures to interest rates,
    equity prices, currency rates and commodity prices. A
    description of each market risk category is set forth below:

Interest rate risks primarily result from exposures to changes
    in the level, slope and curvature of the yield curve, the
    volatility of interest rates, mortgage prepayment speeds and
    credit spreads.

Equity price risks result from exposures to changes in prices
    and volatilities of individual equities, equity baskets and
    equity indices.

Currency rate risks result from exposures to changes in spot
    prices, forward prices and volatilities of currency rates.

Commodity price risks result from exposures to changes in spot
    prices, forward prices and volatilities of commodities, such as
    electricity, natural gas, crude oil, petroleum products, and
    precious and base metals.

We seek to manage these risks by diversifying exposures,
    controlling position sizes and establishing economic hedges in
    related securities or derivatives. For example, we may seek to
    hedge a portfolio of common stocks by taking an offsetting
    position in a related
     equity-index 
    futures contract. The ability to manage an exposure may,
    however, be limited by adverse changes in the liquidity of the
    security or the related hedge instrument and in the correlation
    of price movements between the security and related hedge
    instrument.

In addition to applying business judgment, senior management
    uses a number of quantitative tools to manage our exposure to
    market risk for  Trading assets, at fair value  and
     Trading liabilities, at fair value  in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition. These tools
    include:

risk limits based on a summary measure of market risk exposure
    referred to as VaR;

scenario analyses, stress tests and other analytical tools that
    measure the potential effects on our trading net revenues of
    various market events, including, but not limited to, a large
    widening of credit spreads, a substantial decline in equity
    markets and significant moves in selected emerging markets; and

inventory position limits for selected business units.

VaR   

VaR is the potential loss in value of trading positions due to
    adverse market movements over a defined time horizon with a
    specified confidence level.

For the VaR numbers reported below, a
     one-day  time
    horizon and a 95% confidence level were used. This means that
    there is a 1 in 20 chance that daily trading net revenues will
    fall below the expected daily trading net revenues by an amount
    at least as large as the reported VaR. Thus, shortfalls from
    expected trading net revenues on a single trading day greater
    than the reported VaR would be anticipated to occur, on average,
    about once a month. Shortfalls on a single day can exceed
    reported VaR by significant amounts. Shortfalls can also occur
    more frequently or accumulate over a longer time horizon such as
    a number of consecutive trading days.

103

Table of Contents   

The modeling of the risk characteristics of our trading
    positions involves a number of assumptions and approximations.
    While we believe that these assumptions and approximations are
    reasonable, there is no standard methodology for estimating VaR,
    and different assumptions
     and/or 
    approximations could produce materially different VaR estimates.

We use historical data to estimate our VaR and, to better
    reflect current asset volatilities, we generally weight
    historical data to give greater importance to more recent
    observations. Given its reliance on historical data, VaR is most
    effective in estimating risk exposures in markets in which there
    are no sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market
    conditions. An inherent limitation of VaR is that the
    distribution of past changes in market risk factors may not
    produce accurate predictions of future market risk. Different
    VaR methodologies and distributional assumptions could produce a
    materially different VaR. Moreover, VaR calculated for a
     one-day  time
    horizon does not fully capture the market risk of positions that
    cannot be liquidated or offset with hedges within one day.

The following tables set forth the daily VaR:

Average Daily VaR
        (1) 

       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Certain portfolios and individual
    positions are not included in VaR, where VaR is not the most
    appropriate measure of risk (e.g., due to transfer
    restrictions
     and/or 
    illiquidity). See
        Other 
    Market Risk Measures  below.

(2)   

Equals the difference between total
    VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This
    effect arises because the four market risk categories are not
    perfectly correlated.

Our average daily VaR increased to $218 million in 2009
    from $180 million in 2008, principally due to an increase
    in the interest rates category and a reduction in the
    diversification benefit across risk categories, partially offset
    by a decrease in the commodity prices category. The increase in
    interest rates was primarily due to wider spreads. The decrease
    in commodity prices was primarily due to lower energy prices.

Our average daily VaR increased to $180 million in 2008
    from $138 million in 2007, principally due to increases in
    the interest rate, commodity price and currency rate categories,
    partially offset by a decrease in the equity prices category.
    The increase in interest rates was primarily due to higher
    levels of volatility and wider spreads, partially offset by
    position reductions, and the increases in commodity prices and
    currency rates were primarily due to higher levels of
    volatility. The decrease in equity prices was principally due to
    position reductions, partially offset by higher levels of
    volatility.

VaR excludes the impact of changes in counterparty and our own
    credit spreads on derivatives as well as changes in our own
    credit spreads on unsecured borrowings for which the fair value
    option was elected. The estimated sensitivity of our net
    revenues to a one basis point increase in credit spreads
    (counterparty and our own) on derivatives was a $1 million
    loss as of December 2009. In addition, the estimated
    sensitivity of our net revenues to a one basis point increase in
    our own credit spreads on unsecured borrowings for which the
    fair value option was elected was an $8 million gain
    (including hedges) as of December 2009.

104

Table of Contents   

Daily VaR
        (1) 

       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Certain portfolios and individual
    positions are not included in VaR, where VaR is not the most
    appropriate measure of risk (e.g., due to transfer
    restrictions
     and/or 
    illiquidity). See
        Other 
    Market Risk Measures  below.

(2)   

Equals the difference between total
    VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This
    effect arises because the four market risk categories are not
    perfectly correlated.

Our daily VaR decreased to $153 million as of
    December 2009 from $244 million as of
    November 2008, due to a decrease in the interest rate and
    currency rate categories as well as an increase in the
    diversification benefit across risk categories, partially offset
    by an increase in the equity prices category. The decrease in
    interest rates was principally due to lower market volatilities,
    tighter spreads and lower levels of exposure. The decrease in
    currency rates was primarily due to lower market volatilities.
    The increase in equity prices was primarily due to higher levels
    of exposure.

The following chart presents our daily VaR during 2009:

Daily VaR 
       ($ in
    millions)

105

Table of Contents   

Trading Net
    Revenues Distribution   

The following chart sets forth the frequency distribution of our
    daily trading net revenues for substantially all inventory
    positions included in VaR for the year ended December 2009:

Daily Trading Net
    Revenues 
       ($ in
    millions)

As part of our overall risk control process, daily trading net
    revenues are compared with VaR calculated as of the end of the
    prior business day. Trading losses incurred on a single day did
    not exceed our 95%
     one-day  VaR
    during 2009. Trading losses incurred on a single day exceeded
    our 95%
     one-day  VaR
    on 13 occasions during 2008.

Other Market
    Risk Measures   

Certain portfolios and individual positions are not included in
    VaR, where VaR is not the most appropriate measure of risk
    (e.g., due to transfer restrictions
     and/or 
    illiquidity). The market risk related to our investment in the
    ordinary shares of ICBC, excluding interests held by investment
    funds managed by Goldman Sachs, is measured by estimating the
    potential reduction in net revenues associated with a 10%
    decline in the ICBC ordinary share price. The market risk
    related to the remaining positions is measured by estimating the
    potential reduction in net revenues associated with a 10%
    decline in asset values.

The sensitivity analyses for these equity and debt positions in
    the FICC and Equities components of our Trading and Principal
    Investments segment and equity, debt (primarily mezzanine
    instruments) and real estate positions in the Principal
    Investments component of our Trading and Principal Investments
    segment are measured by the impact of a decline in the asset
    values (including the impact of leverage in the underlying
    investments for real estate positions in the Principal
    Investments component) of such positions. The fair value of the
    underlying positions may be impacted by recent
     third-party 
    investments or pending transactions,
     third-party 
    independent appraisals, transactions in similar instruments,
    valuation multiples and public comparables, and changes in
    financial ratios or cash flows.

106

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth market risk for positions not
    included in VaR. These measures do not reflect diversification
    benefits across asset categories and, given the differing
    likelihood of the potential declines in asset categories, these
    measures have not been aggregated:

(1)   

In addition to the positions in
    these portfolios, which are accounted for at fair value, we make
    investments accounted for under the equity method and we also
    make direct investments in real estate, both of which are
    included in  Other assets  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition. Direct investments in real
    estate are accounted for at cost less accumulated depreciation.
    See Note 12 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information on  Other assets. 

(2)   

Relates to private and restricted
    public equity securities held within the FICC and Equities
    components of our Trading and Principal Investments segment.

(3)   

Primarily relates to acquired
    portfolios of distressed loans (primarily backed by commercial
    and residential real estate collateral), loans backed by
    commercial real estate, and corporate debt held within the FICC
    component of our Trading and Principal Investments segment.

(4)   

Represents investments included
    within the Principal Investments component of our Trading and
    Principal Investments segment.

(5)   

Primarily relates to interests in
    our merchant banking funds that invest in corporate equities.

(6)   

Primarily relates to interests in
    our merchant banking funds that invest in corporate mezzanine
    debt instruments.

(7)   

Primarily relates to interests in
    our merchant banking funds that invest in real estate. Such
    funds typically employ leverage as part of the investment
    strategy. This sensitivity measure is based on our percentage
    ownership of the underlying asset values in the funds and
    unfunded commitments to the funds.

The decrease in our 10% sensitivity measures as of
    December 2009 from November 2008 for debt and equity
    positions in the FICC and Equities components of our Trading and
    Principal Investments segment was primarily due to decreases in
    the fair value of the portfolios as well as due to dispositions.
    The decrease in our 10% sensitivity measure for equity positions
    in our Principal Investments component was primarily due to
    dispositions. The increase in our 10% sensitivity measure for
    debt positions in our Principal Investments component was
    primarily due to new investment activity. The decrease in our
    10% sensitivity measure for real estate positions in our
    Principal Investments component was primarily due to a decrease
    in the fair value of the portfolio.

In addition to the positions included in VaR and the other risk
    measures described above, as of December 2009, we held
    approximately $10.70 billion of financial instruments in
    our bank and insurance subsidiaries, primarily consisting of
    $5.12 billion of money market instruments,
    $1.25 billion of government and U.S. federal agency
    obligations, $2.78 billion of corporate debt securities and
    other debt obligations, and $1.31 billion of mortgage and
    other
     asset-backed 
    loans and securities. As of November 2008, we held
    approximately $10.39 billion of financial instruments in
    our bank and insurance subsidiaries, primarily consisting of
    $2.86 billion of money market instruments,
    $3.08 billion of government and U.S. federal agency
    obligations, $2.87 billion of corporate debt securities and
    other debt obligations, and $1.22 billion of mortgage and
    other
     asset-backed 
    loans and securities. In addition, as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, we held commitments and loans under the
    William Street credit extension program. See Note 8 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our William Street credit
    extension program.

107

Table of Contents   

Credit
    Risk  

Credit risk represents the loss that we would incur if a
    counterparty or an issuer of securities or other instruments we
    hold fails to perform under its contractual obligations to us,
    or upon a deterioration in the credit quality of third parties
    whose securities or other instruments, including OTC
    derivatives, we hold. Our exposure to credit risk principally
    arises through our trading, investing and financing activities.
    To reduce our credit exposures, we seek to enter into netting
    agreements with counterparties that permit us to offset
    receivables and payables with such counterparties. In addition,
    we attempt to further reduce credit risk with certain
    counterparties by (i) entering into agreements that enable
    us to obtain collateral from a counterparty on an upfront or
    contingent basis, (ii) seeking
     third-party 
    guarantees of the counterparty s obligations,
     and/or 
    (iii) transferring our credit risk to third parties using
    credit derivatives
     and/or  other
    structures and techniques.

To measure and manage our credit exposures, we use a variety of
    tools, including credit limits referenced to current exposure
    and potential exposure. Potential exposure is an estimate of
    exposure, within a specified confidence level, that could be
    outstanding over the life of a transaction based on market
    movements. In addition, as part of our market risk management
    process, for positions measured by changes in credit spreads, we
    use VaR and other sensitivity measures. To supplement our
    primary credit exposure measures, we also use scenario analyses,
    such as credit spread widening scenarios, stress tests and other
    quantitative tools.

Our global credit management systems monitor credit exposure to
    individual counterparties and on an aggregate basis to
    counterparties and their subsidiaries. These systems also
    provide management, including the Firmwide Risk and Credit
    Policy Committees, with information regarding credit risk by
    product, industry sector, country and region.

While our activities expose us to many different industries and
    counterparties, we routinely execute a high volume of
    transactions with counterparties in the financial services
    industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks,
    clearing houses, exchanges and investment funds. This has
    resulted in significant credit concentration with respect to
    this industry. In the ordinary course of business, we may also
    be subject to a concentration of credit risk to a particular
    counterparty, borrower or issuer, including sovereign issuers,
    or to a particular clearing house or exchange.

As of December 2009 and November 2008, we held
    $83.83 billion (10% of total assets) and
    $53.98 billion (6% of total assets), respectively, of
    U.S. government and federal agency obligations included in
     Trading assets, at fair value  and  Cash and
    securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes  in
    the consolidated statements of financial condition. As of
    December 2009 and November 2008, we held
    $38.61 billion (5% of total assets) and $21.13 billion
    (2% of total assets), respectively, of other sovereign
    obligations, principally consisting of securities issued by the
    governments of the United Kingdom and Japan. In addition, as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, $87.63 billion
    and $126.27 billion of our securities purchased under
    agreements to resell and securities borrowed (including those in
     Cash and securities segregated for regulatory and other
    purposes ), respectively, were collateralized by
    U.S. government and federal agency obligations. As of
    December 2009 and November 2008, $77.99 billion
    and $65.37 billion of our securities purchased under
    agreements to resell and securities borrowed, respectively, were
    collateralized by other sovereign obligations, principally
    consisting of securities issued by the governments of Germany,
    the United Kingdom and Japan. As of December 2009 and
    November 2008, we did not have credit exposure to any other
    counterparty that exceeded 2% of our total assets.

108

Table of Contents   

Derivatives  

Derivative contracts are instruments, such as futures, forwards,
    swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from
    underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of
    these factors. Derivative instruments may be privately
    negotiated contracts, which are often referred to as OTC
    derivatives, or they may be listed and traded on an exchange.

Substantially all of our derivative transactions are entered
    into to facilitate client transactions, to take proprietary
    positions or as a means of risk management. In addition to
    derivative transactions entered into for trading purposes, we
    enter into derivative contracts to manage currency exposure on
    our net investment in
     non-U.S. operations 
    and to manage the interest rate and currency exposure on our
     long-term 
    borrowings and certain
     short-term 
    borrowings.

Derivatives are used in many of our businesses, and we believe
    that the associated market risk can only be understood relative
    to all of the underlying assets or risks being hedged, or as
    part of a broader trading strategy. Accordingly, the market risk
    of derivative positions is managed together with our
    nonderivative positions.

The fair value of our derivative contracts is reflected net of
    cash paid or received pursuant to credit support agreements and
    is reported on a
     net-by-counterparty 
    basis in our consolidated statements of financial condition when
    we believe a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable
    netting agreement. For an OTC derivative, our credit exposure is
    directly with our counterparty and continues until the maturity
    or termination of such contract.

The following tables set forth the fair values of our OTC
    derivative assets and liabilities by tenor and by product type
    or credit rating. Tenor is based on expected duration for
     mortgage-related 
    credit derivatives and generally on remaining contractual
    maturity for other derivatives. For option contracts that
    require settlement by delivery of an underlying derivative
    instrument, the tenor is generally classified based upon the
    maturity date of the underlying derivative instrument. In those
    instances where the underlying instrument does not have a
    maturity date or either counterparty has the right to settle in
    cash, the tenor is generally based upon the option expiration
    date.

109

Table of Contents   

The following tables set forth the fair values of our OTC
    derivative assets and liabilities by product type and by tenor.

OTC
    Derivatives 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Represents the netting of
    receivable balances with payable balances for the same
    counterparty across product types within a tenor category,
    pursuant to enforceable netting agreements. Receivable and
    payable balances with the same counterparty in the same product
    type and tenor category are netted within such product type and
    tenor category, where appropriate.

(2)   

Represents the netting of
    receivable balances with payable balances for the same
    counterparty across tenor categories, pursuant to enforceable
    netting agreements.

(3)   

Represents the netting of cash
    collateral received and posted on a counterparty basis pursuant
    to credit support agreements.

(4)   

Includes fair values of OTC
    derivative assets and liabilities, maturing within six months,
    of $21.60 billion and $18.08 billion, respectively.

110

Table of Contents   

OTC
    Derivatives 
       (in
    millions)

(1)   

Represents the netting of
    receivable balances with payable balances for the same
    counterparty across product types within a tenor category,
    pursuant to enforceable netting agreements. Receivable and
    payable balances with the same counterparty in the same product
    type and tenor category are netted within such product type and
    tenor category, where appropriate.

(2)   

Represents the netting of
    receivable balances with payable balances for the same
    counterparty across tenor categories, pursuant to enforceable
    netting agreements.

(3)   

Represents the netting of cash
    collateral received and posted on a counterparty basis pursuant
    to credit support agreements.

(4)   

Includes fair values of OTC
    derivative assets and liabilities, maturing within six months,
    of $54.68 billion and $51.16 billion, respectively.

111

Table of Contents   

The following tables set forth the distribution, by credit
    rating, of our exposure with respect to OTC derivatives by
    tenor, both before and after consideration of the effect of
    collateral and netting agreements. The categories shown reflect
    our internally determined public rating agency equivalents:

OTC Derivative
    Credit Exposure 
       (in
    millions)

(1)  

Includes fair values of OTC derivative assets, maturing within
    six months, of $21.60 billion and $54.68 billion as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.

(2)  

Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable
    balances for the same counterparty across tenor categories,
    pursuant to enforceable netting agreements, and the netting of
    cash collateral received, pursuant to credit support agreements.
    Receivable and payable balances with the same counterparty in
    the same tenor category are netted within such tenor category,
    where appropriate.

(3)  

The decrease in the fair value of our OTC derivative credit
    exposure from November 2008 to December 2009 primarily
    reflects increases in equity prices, tightening credit spreads,
    and changes in interest and currency rates.

Derivative transactions may also involve legal risks including
    the risk that they are not authorized or appropriate for a
    counterparty, that documentation has not been properly executed
    or that executed agreements may not be enforceable against the
    counterparty. We attempt to minimize these risks by obtaining
    advice of counsel on the enforceability of agreements as well as
    on the authority of a counterparty to effect the derivative
    transaction. In addition, certain derivative transactions
    (e.g., credit derivative contracts) involve the risk that
    we may have difficulty obtaining, or be unable to obtain, the
    underlying security or obligation in order to satisfy any
    physical settlement requirement.

112

Table of Contents   

Liquidity and
    Funding Risk  

Liquidity is of critical importance to companies in the
    financial services sector. Most failures of financial
    institutions have occurred in large part due to insufficient
    liquidity. Accordingly, Goldman Sachs has in place a
    comprehensive set of liquidity and funding policies that are
    intended to maintain significant flexibility to address both
    Goldman Sachs-specific and broader industry or market liquidity
    events. Our principal objective is to be able to
    fund Goldman Sachs and to enable our core businesses to
    continue to generate revenues, even under adverse circumstances.

We manage liquidity risk according to the following framework:

Excess Liquidity   We maintain substantial excess
    liquidity to meet a broad range of potential cash outflows in a
    stressed environment, including financing obligations. The
    amount of our excess liquidity is based on an internal liquidity
    model together with a qualitative assessment of the condition of
    the financial markets and of Goldman Sachs.

Asset-Liability 
    Management   Our funding strategy includes an
    assessment of the overall characteristics of our assets with
    respect to their anticipated holding periods and potential
    illiquidity in a stressed environment. In addition, we manage
    the maturities and diversity of our secured and unsecured
    funding liabilities across markets, products and counterparties,
    and we seek to maintain liabilities of appropriate term relative
    to our asset base.

Contingency Funding Plan (CFP)   We maintain a CFP to
    help identify, measure, monitor and mitigate liquidity and
    funding risk. The CFP considers various risk factors that could
    occur during a crisis and provides a framework for analyzing and
    responding to a liquidity crisis.

Excess
    Liquidity   

Our most important liquidity policy is to
     pre-fund 
    what we estimate will be our potential cash needs during a
    liquidity crisis and hold such excess liquidity in the form of
    unencumbered, highly liquid securities that may be sold or
    pledged to provide
     same-day 
    liquidity. This  Global Core Excess  is intended to
    allow us to meet immediate obligations without needing to sell
    other assets or depend on additional funding from
     credit-sensitive 
    markets. We believe that this pool of excess liquidity provides
    us with a resilient source of funds and gives us significant
    flexibility in managing through a difficult funding environment.
    Our Global Core Excess reflects the following principles:

The first days or weeks of a liquidity crisis are the most
    critical to a company s survival.

Focus must be maintained on all potential cash and collateral
    outflows, not just disruptions to financing flows. Our
    businesses are diverse, and our cash needs are driven by many
    factors, including market movements, collateral requirements and
    client commitments, all of which can change dramatically in a
    difficult funding environment.

During a liquidity crisis,
     credit-sensitive 
    funding, including unsecured debt and some types of secured
    financing agreements, may be unavailable, and the terms or
    availability of other types of secured financing may change.

As a result of our policy to
     pre-fund 
    liquidity that we estimate may be needed in a crisis, we hold
    more unencumbered securities and have larger debt balances than
    our businesses would otherwise require. We believe that our
    liquidity is stronger with greater balances of highly liquid
    unencumbered securities, even though it increases our total
    assets, and our funding costs.

113

Table of Contents   

The size of our Global Core Excess is based on an internal
    liquidity model together with a qualitative assessment of the
    condition of the financial markets and of Goldman Sachs. Our
    liquidity model, through which we analyze the consolidated firm
    as well as our major
     broker-dealer 
    and bank depository institution subsidiaries, identifies and
    estimates potential contractual and contingent cash and
    collateral outflows over a
     short-term 
    horizon in a liquidity crisis, including, but not limited to:

upcoming maturities of unsecured
     long-term 
    debt, promissory notes, commercial paper, term deposits and
    other unsecured funding products;

potential buybacks of a portion of our outstanding unsecured
    funding;

potential withdrawals of client deposits in our banking entities;

adverse changes in the terms of, or the inability to refinance,
    secured funding trades with upcoming maturities, reflecting,
    among other factors, the quality of the underlying collateral
    and counterparty concentration;

outflows of cash or collateral associated with the impact of
    market moves on our OTC derivatives, listed derivatives and
    securities and loans pledged as collateral for financing
    transactions;

other outflows of cash or collateral related to derivatives,
    including the impact of trade terminations, collateral
    substitutions, collateral disputes, collateral calls or
    termination payments (in the event of a
     two-notch 
    downgrade in our credit ratings), collateral that has not been
    called by counterparties but is available to them, or additional
    margin that could be requested by exchanges or clearing houses
    in a stressed environment;

potential liquidity outflows associated with our prime brokerage
    business, including those related to customer credit balances;

draws on our unfunded commitments not supported by William
    Street Funding
    Corporation (1) ,

    with draw assumptions varying in magnitude reflecting, among
    other things, the type of commitment and counterparty, and

other upcoming cash outflows, such as tax and other large
    payments.

The following table sets forth the average loan value of the
    securities (the estimated amount of cash that would be advanced
    by counterparties against these securities), as well as certain
    overnight cash deposits that are included in our Global Core
    Excess:

The
     U.S. dollar-denominated 
    excess is comprised of only unencumbered U.S. government
    securities, U.S. agency securities and highly liquid
    U.S. agency
     mortgage-backed 
    securities, all of which are eligible as collateral in Federal
    Reserve open market operations, as well as certain overnight
    cash deposits. Our
     non-U.S. dollar-denominated 
    excess is comprised of only unencumbered French, German, United
    Kingdom and Japanese government bonds and certain overnight cash
    deposits in highly liquid currencies. We strictly limit our
    Global Core Excess to this narrowly defined list of securities
    and cash because we believe they are highly liquid, even in a
    difficult funding environment. We do not believe that other
    potential sources of excess liquidity, such as lower-quality
    unencumbered securities or committed credit facilities, are as
    reliable in a liquidity crisis.

(1)    The

    Global Core Excess excludes liquid assets of $4.31 billion
    held separately by William Street Funding Corporation. See
    Note 8 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding the William Street credit
    extension program.

114

Table of Contents   

We maintain our Global Core Excess to enable us to meet current
    and potential liquidity requirements of our parent company,
    Group Inc., and all of its subsidiaries. The Global Core
    Excess is held at Group Inc. and our major
     broker-dealer 
    and bank depository institution subsidiaries. Each of these
    entities has its own liquidity model and funding risk management
    framework with separate excess liquidity pools intended to meet
    potential outflows in each entity in a stressed environment.
    Liquidity held in each of these subsidiaries is assumed to be
    usable only by that entity for the purpose of meeting its
    liquidity requirements. Subsidiary liquidity is not available to
    Group Inc. unless legally provided for and assuming no
    additional regulatory, tax or other restrictions.

In addition to our Global Core Excess, we have a significant
    amount of other unencumbered securities as a result of our
    business activities. These assets include other government
    bonds,
     high-grade 
    money market securities, corporate bonds and marginable
    equities. We do not include these securities in our Global Core
    Excess.

In reporting our Global Core Excess and other unencumbered
    assets, we use loan values that are based on
     stress-scenario 
    borrowing capacity and we regularly review these assumptions
    asset class by asset class. The estimated aggregate loan value
    of our Global Core Excess, cash deposits not included in the
    Global Core Excess and our other unencumbered assets averaged
    $210.48 billion and $163.41 billion for the years
    ended December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.

Asset-Liability 
    Management   

Assets.   We seek to maintain a liquid balance
    sheet and substantially all of our inventory is
     marked-to-market 
    daily. We impose balance sheet limits for each business and
    utilize aged inventory limits for certain financial instruments
    as a disincentive to our businesses to hold inventory over
    longer periods of time. Although our balance sheet fluctuates
    due to client activity, market conventions and periodic market
    opportunities in certain of our businesses, our total assets and
    adjusted assets at financial statement dates are typically not
    materially different from those occurring within our reporting
    periods.

Liabilities.   We seek to structure our
    liabilities to meet the following objectives:

Term Structure   We seek to structure our liabilities
    to have
     long-dated 
    maturities in order to reduce refinancing risk. We manage
    maturity concentrations for both secured and unsecured funding
    to ensure we are able to mitigate any concentrated funding
    outflows.

Diversity of Funding Sources   We seek to maintain
    broad and diversified funding sources globally for both secured
    and unsecured funding. We make use of the repurchase agreement
    and securities lending markets, as well as other secured funding
    markets. We issue
     long-term 
    debt through syndicated U.S. registered offerings,
    U.S. registered and 144A
     medium-term 
    note programs, offshore
     medium-term 
    note offerings and other debt offerings. We issue
     short-term 
    debt through U.S. and
     non-U.S. commercial 
    paper and promissory note issuances and other methods. We raise
    demand and savings deposits through cash sweep programs and time
    deposits through internal and
     third-party 
    broker networks. We generally distribute our funding products
    through our own sales force to a large, diverse global creditor
    base. We believe that our relationships with our creditors are
    critical to our liquidity. Our creditors include banks,
    governments, securities lenders, pension funds, insurance
    companies, mutual funds and individuals. We access funding in a
    variety of markets in the Americas, Europe and Asia. We have
    imposed various internal guidelines on creditor concentration,
    including the amount of our commercial paper and promissory
    notes that can be owned by any single creditor or group of
    creditors.

Structural Protection   We structure our liabilities
    to reduce the risk that we may be required to redeem or
    repurchase certain of our borrowings prior to their contractual
    maturity. We issue substantially all of our unsecured debt
    without put provisions or other provisions that would, based
    solely upon an adverse change in our credit ratings, financial
    ratios, earnings, cash flows or stock price, trigger a
    requirement for an early payment, collateral support, change in
    terms, acceleration of maturity or the creation of an additional
    financial obligation.

115

Table of Contents   

Secured Funding.   We fund a substantial portion
    of our inventory on a secured basis, which we believe provides
    us with a more stable source of liquidity than unsecured
    financing, as it is less sensitive to changes in our credit
    quality due to the underlying collateral. However, we recognize
    that the terms or availability of secured funding, particularly
    overnight funding, can deteriorate rapidly in a difficult
    environment. To help mitigate this risk, we generally do not
    rely on overnight secured funding, unless collateralized with
    highly liquid securities such as securities eligible for
    inclusion in our Global Core Excess. Substantially all of our
    other secured funding is executed for tenors of one month or
    greater. Additionally, we monitor counterparty concentration and
    hold a portion of our Global Core Excess for refinancing risk
    associated with all secured funding transactions. We seek longer
    terms for secured funding collateralized by lower-quality
    assets, as we believe these funding transactions may pose
    greater refinancing risk. The weighted average life of our
    secured funding, excluding funding collateralized by highly
    liquid securities eligible for inclusion in our Global Core
    Excess, exceeded 100 days as of December 2009.

Unsecured
     Short-Term 
    Borrowings.   Our liquidity also depends on the
    stability of our unsecured
     short-term 
    financing base. Accordingly, we prefer issuing promissory notes,
    in which we do not make a market, over commercial paper, which
    we may repurchase prior to maturity through the ordinary course
    of business as a market maker. As of December 2009, our
    unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, including the current portion of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, were $37.52 billion. See Note 6 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding our unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings.

Unsecured
     Long-Term 
    Borrowings.   We issue unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings as a source of total capital in order to meet our
     long-term 
    financing requirements. The following table sets forth our
    quarterly unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings maturity profile through 2015 as of
    December 2009:

Unsecured
    Long-Term Borrowings Maturity Profile 
        ($ in
    millions)

116

Table of Contents   

The weighted average maturity of our unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings as of December 2009 was approximately seven
    years. To mitigate refinancing risk, we seek to limit the
    principal amount of debt maturing on any one day or during any
    week or year. We swap a substantial portion of our
     long-term 
    borrowings into
     short-term 
    floating rate obligations in order to minimize our exposure to
    interest rates.

Deposits.   As of December 2009, our bank
    depository institution subsidiaries had $39.42 billion in
    customer deposits, including $9.30 billion of certificates
    of deposit and other time deposits with a weighted average
    maturity of four years, and $30.12 billion of other
    deposits, substantially all of which were from cash sweep
    programs. GS Bank USA has access to funding through the Federal
    Reserve Bank discount window. While we do not rely on funding
    through the Federal Reserve Bank discount window in our
    liquidity modeling and stress testing, we maintain policies and
    procedures necessary to access this funding.

Government Facilities.   As a bank holding
    company, we have access to certain programs and facilities
    established on a temporary basis by a number of
    U.S. regulatory agencies. As of December 2009, we had
    outstanding $20.76 billion of senior unsecured debt
    (comprised of $1.73 billion of
     short-term 
    and $19.03 billion of
     long-term) 
    guaranteed by the FDIC under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee
    Program (TLGP), all of which will mature on or prior to
    June 15, 2012. We have not issued
     long-term 
    debt under the TLGP since March 2009 and the program
    expired for new issuances with respect to the firm on
    October 31, 2009.

See
        Certain 
    Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  above, and
     Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of factors that could impair our ability to
    access the capital markets.

Funding Policies.   We seek to manage our assets
    and the maturity profile of our secured and unsecured funding
    base such that we should be able to liquidate our assets prior
    to our liabilities coming due, even in times of prolonged or
    severe liquidity stress.

In order to avoid reliance on asset sales (other than our Global
    Core Excess), our goal is to ensure that we have sufficient
    total capital (unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings plus total shareholders  equity) to fund our
    balance sheet for at least one year. However, we recognize that
    orderly asset sales may be prudent or necessary in a severe or
    persistent liquidity crisis. The target amount of our total
    capital is based on an internal funding model which
    incorporates, among other things, the following
     long-term 
    financing requirements:

the portion of trading assets that we believe could not be
    funded on a secured basis in periods of market stress, assuming
    stressed loan values;

goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, property, leasehold
    improvements and equipment, and other illiquid assets;

derivative and other margin and collateral requirements;

anticipated draws on our unfunded loan commitments; and

capital or other forms of financing in our regulated
    subsidiaries that are in excess of their
     long-term 
    financing requirements.

117

Table of Contents   

Certain financial instruments may be more difficult to fund on a
    secured basis during times of market stress. Accordingly, we
    focus on funding these assets with longer contractual maturities
    to reduce refinancing risk in periods of market stress and
    generally hold higher levels of total capital for these assets
    than more liquid types of financial instruments. The following
    table sets forth our aggregate holdings in these categories of
    financial instruments:

(1)   

Includes funded commitments and
    inventory held in connection with our origination and secondary
    trading activities.

(2)   

Includes interests in our merchant
    banking funds. Such amounts exclude assets related to
    consolidated investment funds of $919 million and
    $1.16 billion as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively, for which Goldman Sachs does
    not bear economic exposure.

(3)   

Includes interests of
    $5.13 billion and $3.48 billion as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively, held by
    investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs.

(4)   

Includes interests in other
    investment funds that we manage.

See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for further information regarding the financial instruments we
    hold.

Subsidiary Funding Policies.   The majority of
    our unsecured funding is raised by Group Inc.
    Group Inc. then lends the necessary funds to its
    subsidiaries, some of which are regulated, to meet their asset
    financing, liquidity and capital requirements. In addition,
    Group Inc. provides its regulated subsidiaries with the
    necessary capital to meet their regulatory requirements. The
    benefits of this approach to subsidiary funding include enhanced
    control and greater flexibility to meet the funding requirements
    of our subsidiaries. Funding is also raised at the subsidiary
    level through a variety of products, including secured funding,
    unsecured borrowings and deposits.

Our intercompany funding policies are predicated on an
    assumption that, unless legally provided for, funds or
    securities are not freely available from a subsidiary to its
    parent company or other subsidiaries. In particular, many of our
    subsidiaries are subject to laws that authorize regulatory
    bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds from those
    subsidiaries to Group Inc. Regulatory action of that kind
    could impede access to funds that Group Inc. needs to make
    payments on obligations, including debt obligations. As such, we
    assume that capital or other financing provided to our regulated
    subsidiaries is not available to Group Inc. or other
    subsidiaries until the maturity of such financing.

Group Inc. has provided substantial amounts of equity and
    subordinated indebtedness, directly or indirectly, to its
    regulated subsidiaries. For example, as of December 2009,
    Group Inc. had $25.45 billion of such equity and
    subordinated indebtedness invested in GS Co., its principal
    U.S. registered
     broker-dealer; 
    $21.90 billion invested in GSI, a regulated U.K.
     broker-dealer; 
    $2.64 billion invested in Goldman Sachs
    Execution   Clearing, L.P., a U.S. registered
     broker-dealer; 
    $3.74 billion invested in Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd., a
    regulated Japanese
     broker-dealer; 
    and

118

Table of Contents   

$22.32 billion invested in GS Bank USA, a regulated New
    York State-chartered bank. Group Inc. also had
    $78.59 billion of unsubordinated loans and
    $18.09 billion of collateral provided to these entities as
    of December 2009, as well as significant amounts of capital
    invested in and loans to its other regulated subsidiaries.

Contingency
    Funding Plan   

The Goldman Sachs CFP sets out the plan of action to fund
    business activity in emergency situations
     and/or 
    periods of market stress. The CFP outlines the appropriate
    communication channels to be followed throughout a crisis period
    and also provides a framework for analyzing and responding to a
    liquidity crisis including, but not limited to, the potential
    risk factors, identification of liquidity outflows, mitigants
    and potential actions.

Credit
    Ratings   

We rely upon the
     short-term 
    and
     long-term 
    debt capital markets to fund a significant portion of our
     day-to-day 
    operations. The cost and availability of debt financing is
    influenced by our credit ratings. Credit ratings are important
    when we are competing in certain markets and when we seek to
    engage in longer-term transactions, including OTC derivatives.
    We believe our credit ratings are primarily based on the credit
    rating agencies  assessment of our liquidity, market,
    credit and operational risk management practices, the level and
    variability of our earnings, our capital base, our franchise,
    reputation and management, our corporate governance and the
    external operating environment, including the perceived level of
    government support. See
        Certain 
    Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  above, and
     Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of our
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of the risks associated with a reduction in our
    credit ratings.

The following table sets forth our unsecured credit ratings
    (excluding debt guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLGP) and
    outlook as of December 2009. Preferred Stock in the table
    below includes Group Inc. s non-cumulative preferred stock
    and the Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities
    (APEX) issued by Goldman Sachs Capital II and Goldman Sachs
    Capital III. As of December 2009, the trust preferred securities
    (Trust Preferred) issued by Goldman Sachs Capital I were rated A
    by DBRS, Inc., A- by Fitch, Inc., A2 by Moody s Investors
    Service, and BBB by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services.

Short-Term 

Long-Term 

Subordinated 

Preferred 

Rating 

Debt 

Debt 

Debt 

Stock 

Outlook 

DBRS, Inc. 

R-1 (middle)

A (high)

A

BBB

Stable  (3) 

Fitch,
    Inc.  (1) 

F1+

A+

A

A-

Stable  (4) 

Moody s Investors
    Service  (2) 

P-1

A1

A2

A3

Negative  (5) 

Standard   Poor   s Ratings Services

A-1

A

A-

BBB

Negative  (5) 

Rating and Investment Information, Inc. 

a-1+

AA-

A+

Not Applicable

Negative  (6) 

(1)  

As of February 1, 2010, GS Bank USA has been assigned
    a rating of AA- for
     long-term 
    bank deposits, F1+ for
     short-term 
    bank deposits and A+ for
     long-term 
    issuer.

(2)  

GS Bank USA has been assigned a rating of Aa3 for
     long-term 
    bank deposits,
     P-1  for
     short-term 
    bank deposits and Aa3 for
     long-term 
    issuer.

(3)  

Applies to
     long-term 
    and
     short-term 
    ratings.

(4)  

Applies to
     long-term 
    issuer default ratings.

(5)  

Applies to
     long-term 
    ratings.

(6)  

Applies to issuer rating.

119

Table of Contents   

On February 25, 2010, Moody s Investors Service
    lowered the ratings on Group Inc. s
     non-cumulative 
    preferred stock and the APEX from A3 to Baa2, and the rating on
    the Trust Preferred from A2 to A3.

Based on our credit ratings as of December 2009, additional
    collateral or termination payments pursuant to bilateral
    agreements with certain counterparties of approximately
    $1.12 billion and $2.36 billion could have been called
    by counterparties in the event of a
     one-notch 
    and
     two-notch 
    reduction, respectively, in our
     long-term 
    credit ratings. In evaluating our liquidity requirements, we
    consider additional collateral or termination payments that may
    be required in the event of a
     two-notch 
    reduction in our
     long-term 
    credit ratings, as well as collateral that has not been called
    by counterparties, but is available to them.

Cash
    Flows   

As a global financial institution, our cash flows are complex
    and interrelated and bear little relation to our net earnings
    and net assets and, consequently, we believe that traditional
    cash flow analysis is less meaningful in evaluating our
    liquidity position than the excess liquidity and
     asset-liability 
    management policies described above. Cash flow analysis may,
    however, be helpful in highlighting certain macro trends and
    strategic initiatives in our businesses.

Year Ended December 2009.   Our cash and
    cash equivalents increased by $24.49 billion to
    $38.29 billion at the end of 2009. We generated
    $48.88 billion in net cash from operating activities. We
    used net cash of $24.39 billion for investing and financing
    activities, primarily for net repayments in unsecured and
    secured
     short-term 
    borrowings and the repurchases of Series H Preferred Stock
    and the related common stock warrant from the
    U.S. Treasury, partially offset by an increase in bank
    deposits and the issuance of common stock.

Year Ended November 2008.   Our cash and
    cash equivalents increased by $5.46 billion to
    $15.74 billion at the end of 2008. We raised
    $9.80 billion in net cash from financing and operating
    activities, primarily from common and preferred stock issuances
    and deposits, partially offset by repayments of
     short-term 
    borrowings. We used net cash of $4.34 billion in our
    investing activities.

Operational
    Risk  

Operational risk relates to the risk of loss arising from
    shortcomings or failures in internal processes, people or
    systems, or from external events. Operational risk can arise
    from many factors ranging from routine processing errors to
    potentially costly incidents related to, for example, major
    systems failures. Operational risk may also cause reputational
    harm. Thus, efforts to identify, manage and mitigate operational
    risk must be equally sensitive to the risk of reputational
    damage as well as the risk of financial loss.

We manage operational risk through the application of
     long-standing, 
    but continuously evolving, firmwide control standards which are
    supported by the training, supervision and development of our
    people; the active participation and commitment of senior
    management in a continuous process of identifying and mitigating
    key operational risks across Goldman Sachs; and a framework of
    strong and independent control departments that monitor
    operational risk on a daily basis. Together, these elements form
    a strong firmwide control culture that serves as the foundation
    of our efforts to minimize operational risk exposure.

Operational Risk Management   Analysis, a risk
    management function independent of our revenue-producing units,
    is responsible for developing and implementing a formalized
    framework to identify, measure, monitor, and report operational
    risks to support active risk management across Goldman Sachs.
    This framework, which evolves with the changing needs of our
    businesses and regulatory guidance, incorporates analysis of
    internal and external operational risk events, business
    environment and internal control factors, and scenario analysis.
    The framework also provides regular reporting of our operational
    risk exposures to our Board, risk committees and senior
    management. For

120

Table of Contents   

a further discussion of operational risk see
        Certain 
    Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  above, and
        Risk 
    Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report
    on
     Form 10-K. 

Recent Accounting
    Developments  

See Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for information regarding Recent Accounting Developments.

Item 7A.
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk  

Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are
    set forth under  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Risk Management  in Part II, Item 7 of our Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K. 

121

Table of Contents   

Item 8.    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data  

INDEX  

122

Table of Contents   

Management s
    Report on Internal Control over 
    Financial Reporting  

Management of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., together with its
    consolidated subsidiaries (the firm), is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
    financial reporting. The firm s internal control over
    financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision
    of the firm s principal executive and principal financial
    officers to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the
    firm s financial statements for external reporting purposes
    in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles.

As of the end of the firm s 2009 fiscal year, management
    conducted an assessment of the firm s internal control over
    financial reporting based on the framework established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission (COSO). Based on this assessment, management has
    determined that the firm s internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2009 was effective.

Our internal control over financial reporting includes policies
    and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that,
    in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions
    and dispositions of assets; provide reasonable assurances that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally
    accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
    expenditures are being made only in accordance with
    authorizations of management and the directors of the firm; and
    provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
    detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the
    firm s assets that could have a material effect on our
    financial statements.

The firm s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2009 has been audited by
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing on
    page 124, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the
    effectiveness of the firm s internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2009.

123

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and the Shareholders of

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects,
    the financial position of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries (the Company) at December 31, 2009 and
    November 28, 2008, and the results of its operations
    and its cash flows for the fiscal years ended
    December 31, 2009, November 28, 2008 and
    November 30, 2007 and for the
     one-month 
    period ended December 26, 2008 in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
    material respects, effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
    Company s management is responsible for these financial
    statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting, included in
    Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting appearing on page 123. Our responsibility is to
    express opinions on these financial statements and on the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the
    standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
    whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
    maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial
    statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence
    supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
    statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
    significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
    overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
    control over financial reporting included obtaining an
    understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
    assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing
    and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of
    internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also
    included performing such other procedures as we considered
    necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits
    provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/
     PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York 

February 26, 2010

124

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS 

See page 130 for consolidated financial statements for the
    one month ended December 2008.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

125

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL
    CONDITION 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

126

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN
    SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 

(1)  

In connection with becoming a bank holding company, the firm was
    required to change its fiscal year-end from November to
    December. The beginning of the year ended December 2009 is
    December 27, 2008.

(2)  

Relates primarily to repurchases of common stock by a
     broker-dealer 
    subsidiary to facilitate customer transactions in the ordinary
    course of business and shares withheld to satisfy withholding
    tax requirements.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

127

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:

Cash payments for interest, net of capitalized interest, were
    $7.32 billion, $32.37 billion and $40.74 billion
    for the years ended December 2009, November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively.

Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, were
    $4.78 billion, $3.47 billion and $5.78 billion
    for the years ended December 2009, November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively.

Non-cash 
    activities: 

The firm assumed $16 million, $790 million and
    $409 million of debt in connection with business
    acquisitions for the years ended December 2009,
    November 2008 and November 2007, respectively.

See page 130 for consolidated financial statements for the
    one month ended December 2008.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

128

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE
    INCOME 

See page 130 for consolidated financial statements for the
    one month ended December 2008.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

129

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

ONE MONTH ENDED DECEMBER 2008 

Consolidated
    Statement of Earnings  

Consolidated
    Statement of Comprehensive Loss  

One Month Ended December 2008 

(in millions)

Net loss

$

(780

)

Currency translation adjustment, net of tax

(32

)

Pension and postretirement liability adjustments, net of tax

(175

)

Net unrealized gains on
     available-for-sale 
    securities, net of tax

37

Comprehensive loss

$

(950

)

Consolidated
    Statement of Cash Flows  

One Month Ended December 2008 

(in millions)

Cash flows from operating activities 

Net loss

$

(780

)

Non-cash 
    items included in net loss

Depreciation and amortization

143

Share-based 
    compensation

180

Changes in operating assets and liabilities

Cash and securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes

(5,835

)

Net receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations

3,693

Net payables to customers and counterparties

(7,635

)

Securities borrowed, net of securities loaned

(18,030

)

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, net of
    securities purchased under agreements to resell and federal
    funds sold

190,027

Trading assets, at fair value

(192,883

)

Trading liabilities, at fair value

10,059

Other, net

7,156

Net cash used for operating activities

(13,905

)

Cash flows from investing activities 

Purchase of property, leasehold improvements and equipment

(61

)

Proceeds from sales of property, leasehold improvements and
    equipment

4

Business acquisitions, net of cash acquired

(59

)

Proceeds from sales of investments

141

Purchase of
     available-for-sale 
    securities

(95

)

Proceeds from sales of
     available-for-sale 
    securities

26

Net cash used for investing activities

(44

)

Cash flows from financing activities 

Unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, net

2,816

Other secured financings
     (short-term), 
    net

(1,068

)

Proceeds from issuance of other secured financings
     (long-term) 

437

Repayment of other secured financings
     (long-term), 
    including the current portion

(349

)

Proceeds from issuance of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings

9,310

Repayment of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, including the current portion

(3,686

)

Derivative contracts with a financing element, net

66

Deposits, net

4,487

Common stock repurchased

(1

)

Proceeds from issuance of common stock, including stock option
    exercises

2

Net cash provided by financing activities

12,014

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents

(1,935

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period

15,740

Cash and cash equivalents, end of period

$

13,805

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:

Cash payments for interest, net of
    capitalized interest, were $459 million for the one month
    ended December 2008.

Cash payments for income taxes, net
    of refunds, were $171 million for the one month ended
    December 2008.

The accompanying notes are an
    integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

130

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Note 1.    

Description
    of Business  

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.), a Delaware
    corporation, together with its consolidated subsidiaries
    (collectively, the firm), is a leading global investment
    banking, securities and investment management firm that provides
    a wide range of financial services to a substantial and
    diversified client base that includes corporations, financial
    institutions, governments and
     high-net-worth 
    individuals. Founded in 1869, the firm is headquartered in New
    York and maintains offices in London, Frankfurt, Tokyo, Hong
    Kong and other major financial centers around the world.

The firm s activities are divided into three segments:

Investment Banking.   The firm provides a broad
    range of investment banking services to a diverse group of
    corporations, financial institutions, investment funds,
    governments and individuals.

Trading and Principal Investments.   The firm
    facilitates client transactions with a diverse group of
    corporations, financial institutions, investment funds,
    governments and individuals through market making in, trading of
    and investing in fixed income and equity products, currencies,
    commodities and derivatives on these products. The firm also
    takes proprietary positions on certain of these products. In
    addition, the firm engages in
     market-making 
    activities on equities and options exchanges, and the firm
    clears client transactions on major stock, options and futures
    exchanges worldwide. In connection with the firm s merchant
    banking and other investing activities, the firm makes principal
    investments directly and through funds that the firm raises and
    manages.

Asset Management and Securities Services.   The
    firm provides investment and wealth advisory services and offers
    investment products (primarily through separately managed
    accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and
    private investment funds) across all major asset classes to a
    diverse group of institutions and individuals worldwide and
    provides prime brokerage services, financing services and
    securities lending services to institutional clients, including
    hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and foundations, and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals worldwide.

Note 2.    

Significant
    Accounting Policies  

Basis of
    Presentation   

These consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
    Group Inc. and all other entities in which the firm has a
    controlling financial interest. All material intercompany
    transactions and balances have been eliminated.

The firm determines whether it has a controlling financial
    interest in an entity by first evaluating whether the entity is
    a voting interest entity, a variable interest entity (VIE) or a
    qualifying
     special-purpose 
    entity (QSPE) under generally accepted accounting principles
    (GAAP).

Voting Interest Entities.   Voting interest
    entities are entities in which (i) the total equity
    investment at risk is sufficient to enable the entity to finance
    its activities independently and (ii) the equity holders
    have the obligation to absorb losses, the right to receive
    residual returns and the right to make decisions about the
    entity s activities. The usual condition for a controlling
    financial interest in a voting interest entity is ownership of a
    majority voting interest. Accordingly, the firm consolidates
    voting interest entities in which it has a majority voting
    interest.

131

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Variable Interest Entities.   VIEs are entities
    that lack one or more of the characteristics of a voting
    interest entity. A controlling financial interest in a VIE is
    present when an enterprise has a variable interest, or a
    combination of variable interests, that will absorb a majority
    of the VIE s expected losses, receive a majority of the
    VIE s expected residual returns, or both. The enterprise
    with a controlling financial interest, known as the primary
    beneficiary, consolidates the VIE. The firm determines whether
    it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE by first performing a
    qualitative analysis of the VIE s expected losses and
    expected residual returns. This analysis includes a review of,
    among other factors, the VIE s capital structure,
    contractual terms, which interests create or absorb variability,
    related party relationships and the design of the VIE. Where
    qualitative analysis is not conclusive, the firm performs a
    quantitative analysis. For purposes of allocating a VIE s
    expected losses and expected residual returns to its variable
    interest holders, the firm utilizes the  top down 
    method. Under this method, the firm calculates its share of the
    VIE s expected losses and expected residual returns using
    the specific cash flows that would be allocated to it, based on
    contractual arrangements
     and/or  the
    firm s position in the capital structure of the VIE, under
    various probability-weighted scenarios. The firm reassesses its
    initial evaluation of an entity as a VIE and its initial
    determination of whether the firm is the primary beneficiary of
    a VIE upon the occurrence of certain reconsideration events. See
        Recent 
    Accounting Developments  below for information regarding
    amendments to accounting for VIEs.

QSPEs.   QSPEs are passive entities that are
    commonly used in mortgage and other securitization transactions.
    To be considered a QSPE, an entity must satisfy certain
    criteria. These criteria include the types of assets a QSPE may
    hold, limits on asset sales, the use of derivatives and
    financial guarantees, and the level of discretion a servicer may
    exercise in attempting to collect receivables. These criteria
    may require management to make judgments about complex matters,
    such as whether a derivative is considered passive and the level
    of discretion a servicer may exercise, including, for example,
    determining when default is reasonably foreseeable. The firm
    does not consolidate QSPEs. See
        Recent 
    Accounting Developments  below for information regarding
    amendments to accounting for QSPEs.

Equity-Method 
    Investments.   When the firm does not have a
    controlling financial interest in an entity but exerts
    significant influence over the entity s operating and
    financial policies (generally defined as owning a voting
    interest of 20% to 50%) and has an investment in common stock or
     in-substance 
    common stock, the firm accounts for its investment either under
    the equity method of accounting or at fair value pursuant to the
    fair value option available under Financial Accounting Standards
    Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification
     (ASC) 825-10. 
    In general, the firm accounts for investments acquired
    subsequent to November 24, 2006, when the fair value
    option became available, at fair value. In certain cases, the
    firm applies the equity method of accounting to new investments
    that are strategic in nature or closely related to the
    firm s principal business activities, where the firm has a
    significant degree of involvement in the cash flows or
    operations of the investee, or where
     cost-benefit 
    considerations are less significant. See
        Revenue 
    Recognition   Other Financial Assets and Financial
    Liabilities at Fair Value  below for a discussion of the
    firm s application of the fair value option.

Other.   If the firm does not consolidate an
    entity or apply the equity method of accounting, the firm
    accounts for its investment at fair value. The firm also has
    formed numerous nonconsolidated investment funds with
     third-party 
    investors that are typically organized as limited partnerships.
    The firm acts as general partner for these funds and generally
    does not hold a majority of the economic interests in these
    funds. The firm has generally provided the
     third-party 
    investors with rights to terminate the funds or to remove the
    firm as the general partner. As a result, the firm does not
    consolidate these funds. These fund investments are included in
     Trading assets, at fair value  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition.

132

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In connection with becoming a bank holding company, the firm was
    required to change its fiscal year-end from November to
    December. This change in the firm s fiscal year-end
    resulted in a
     one-month 
    transition period that began on November 29, 2008 and
    ended on December 26, 2008. In April 2009, the
    Board of Directors of Group Inc. (the Board) approved a
    change in the firm s fiscal year-end from the last Friday
    of December to December 31. Fiscal 2009 began on
    December 27, 2008 and ended on
    December 31, 2009.

All references to 2009, 2008 and 2007, unless specifically
    stated otherwise, refer to the firm s fiscal years ended,
    or the dates, as the context requires,
    December 31, 2009, November 28, 2008 and
    November 30, 2007, respectively, and any reference to
    a future year refers to a fiscal year ending on December 31 of
    that year. All references to December 2008, unless
    specifically stated otherwise, refer to the firm s fiscal
    one month ended, or the date, as the context requires,
    December 26, 2008. Certain reclassifications have been
    made to previously reported amounts to conform to the current
    presentation.

Use of
    Estimates   

These consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles that
    require management to make certain estimates and assumptions.
    The most important of these estimates and assumptions relate to
    fair value measurements, the accounting for goodwill and
    identifiable intangible assets and the provision for potential
    losses that may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings
    and tax audits. Although these and other estimates and
    assumptions are based on the best available information, actual
    results could be materially different from these estimates.

Revenue
    Recognition   

Investment Banking.   Underwriting revenues and
    fees from mergers and acquisitions and other financial advisory
    assignments are recognized in the consolidated statements of
    earnings when the services related to the underlying transaction
    are completed under the terms of the engagement. Expenses
    associated with such transactions are deferred until the related
    revenue is recognized or the engagement is otherwise concluded.
    Underwriting revenues are presented net of related expenses.
    Expenses associated with financial advisory transactions are
    recorded as
     non-compensation 
    expenses, net of client reimbursements.

Trading Assets and Trading
    Liabilities.   Substantially all trading assets and
    trading liabilities are reflected in the consolidated statements
    of financial condition at fair value. Related gains or losses
    are generally recognized in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings.

Other Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities at Fair
    Value.   In addition to trading assets, at fair
    value and trading liabilities, at fair value, the firm has
    elected to account for certain of its other financial assets and
    financial liabilities at fair value under ASC
     815-15  and
     825-10 
    (i.e., the fair value option). The primary reasons for
    electing the fair value option are to reflect economic events in
    earnings on a timely basis, to mitigate volatility in earnings
    from using different measurement attributes and to address
    simplification and
     cost-benefit 
    considerations.

Such financial assets and financial liabilities accounted for at
    fair value include:

certain unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, consisting of all promissory notes and commercial
    paper and certain hybrid financial instruments;

133

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

certain other secured financings, primarily transfers accounted
    for as financings rather than sales, debt raised through the
    firm s William Street credit extension program and certain
    other nonrecourse financings;

certain unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, including prepaid physical commodity transactions
    and certain hybrid financial instruments;

resale and repurchase agreements;

securities borrowed and loaned within Trading and Principal
    Investments, consisting of the firm s matched book and
    certain firm financing activities;

certain deposits issued by the firm s bank subsidiaries, as
    well as securities held by Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank USA);

certain receivables from customers and counterparties, including
    certain margin loans, transfers accounted for as secured loans
    rather than purchases and prepaid variable share forwards;

certain insurance and reinsurance contracts and certain
    guarantees; and

in general, investments acquired after
    November 24, 2006, when the fair value option became
    available, where the firm has significant influence over the
    investee and would otherwise apply the equity method of
    accounting.

Fair Value Measurements.   The fair value of a
    financial instrument is the amount that would be received to
    sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly
    transaction between market participants at the measurement date
    (i.e., the exit price). Financial assets are marked to bid
    prices and financial liabilities are marked to offer prices.
    Fair value measurements do not include transaction costs.

The fair value hierarchy under ASC 820 prioritizes the inputs to
    valuation techniques used to measure fair value. The hierarchy
    gives the highest priority to unadjusted quoted prices in active
    markets for identical assets or liabilities (level 1
    measurements) and the lowest priority to unobservable inputs
    (level 3 measurements). The three levels of the fair value
    hierarchy are described below:

Basis of Fair Value
    Measurement

Level 1     

Unadjusted quoted prices in active markets that are accessible
    at the measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or
    liabilities;

Level 2     

Quoted prices in markets that are not considered to be active or
    financial instruments for which all significant inputs are
    observable, either directly or indirectly;

Level 3     

Prices or valuations that require inputs that are both
    significant to the fair value measurement and unobservable.

A financial instrument s level within the fair value
    hierarchy is based on the lowest level of any input that is
    significant to the fair value measurement.

The firm defines active markets for equity instruments based on
    the average daily trading volume both in absolute terms and
    relative to the market capitalization for the instrument. The
    firm defines active markets for debt instruments based on both
    the average daily trading volume and the number of days with
    trading activity.

134

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Credit risk is an essential component of fair value. Cash
    products (e.g., bonds and loans) and derivative instruments
    (particularly those with significant future projected cash
    flows) trade in the market at levels which reflect credit
    considerations. The firm calculates the fair value of derivative
    assets by discounting future cash flows at a rate which
    incorporates counterparty credit spreads and the fair value of
    derivative liabilities by discounting future cash flows at a
    rate which incorporates the firm s own credit spreads. In
    doing so, credit exposures are adjusted to reflect mitigants,
    namely collateral agreements which reduce exposures based on
    triggers and contractual posting requirements. The firm manages
    its exposure to credit risk as it does other market risks and
    will price, economically hedge, facilitate and intermediate
    trades which involve credit risk. The firm records liquidity
    valuation adjustments to reflect the cost of exiting
    concentrated risk positions, including exposure to the
    firm s own credit spreads.

In determining fair value, the firm separates trading assets, at
    fair value and trading liabilities, at fair value into two
    categories: cash instruments and derivative contracts.

Cash Instruments.   The firm s cash
    instruments are generally classified within level 1 or
    level 2 of the fair value hierarchy because they are valued
    using quoted market prices, broker or dealer quotations, or
    alternative pricing sources with reasonable levels of price
    transparency. The types of instruments valued based on quoted
    market prices in active markets include most government
    obligations, active listed equities and certain money market
    securities. Such instruments are generally classified within
    level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Instruments classified
    within level 1 of the fair value hierarchy are required to
    be carried at quoted market prices, even in situations where the
    firm holds a large position and a sale could reasonably impact
    the quoted price.

The types of instruments that trade in markets that are not
    considered to be active, but are valued based on quoted market
    prices, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative pricing
    sources with reasonable levels of price transparency include
    most government agency securities, most corporate bonds, certain
    mortgage products, certain bank loans and bridge loans, less
    liquid listed equities, certain state, municipal and provincial
    obligations and certain money market securities and loan
    commitments. Such instruments are generally classified within
    level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

Certain cash instruments are classified within level 3 of
    the fair value hierarchy because they trade infrequently and
    therefore have little or no price transparency. Such instruments
    include private equity investments and real estate fund
    investments, certain bank loans and bridge loans (including
    certain mezzanine financing, leveraged loans arising from
    capital market transactions and other corporate bank debt), less
    liquid corporate debt securities and other debt obligations
    (including less liquid corporate bonds, distressed debt
    instruments and collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) backed by
    corporate obligations), less liquid mortgage whole loans and
    securities (backed by either commercial or residential real
    estate), and acquired portfolios of distressed loans. The
    transaction price is initially used as the best estimate of fair
    value. Accordingly, when a pricing model is used to value such
    an instrument, the model is adjusted so that the model value at
    inception equals the transaction price. This valuation is
    adjusted only when changes to inputs and assumptions are
    corroborated by evidence such as transactions in similar
    instruments, completed or pending
     third-party 
    transactions in the underlying investment or comparable
    entities, subsequent rounds of financing, recapitalizations and
    other transactions across the capital structure, offerings in
    the equity or debt capital markets, and changes in financial
    ratios or cash flows.

For positions that are not traded in active markets or are
    subject to transfer restrictions, valuations are adjusted to
    reflect illiquidity
     and/or 
     non-transferability. 
    Such adjustments are

135

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

generally based on market evidence where available. In the
    absence of such evidence, management s best estimate is
    used.

Derivative Contracts.   Derivative contracts can
    be
     exchange-traded 
    or
     over-the-counter 
    (OTC).
     Exchange-traded 
    derivatives typically fall within level 1 or level 2
    of the fair value hierarchy depending on whether they are deemed
    to be actively traded or not. The firm generally values
     exchange-traded 
    derivatives using models which calibrate to
     market-clearing 
    levels and eliminate timing differences between the closing
    price of the
     exchange-traded 
    derivatives and their underlying instruments. In such cases,
     exchange-traded 
    derivatives are classified within level 2 of the fair value
    hierarchy.

OTC derivatives are valued using market transactions and other
    market evidence whenever possible, including
     market-based 
    inputs to models, model calibration to
     market-clearing 
    transactions, broker or dealer quotations, or alternative
    pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
    Where models are used, the selection of a particular model to
    value an OTC derivative depends upon the contractual terms of,
    and specific risks inherent in, the instrument, as well as the
    availability of pricing information in the market. The firm
    generally uses similar models to value similar instruments.
    Valuation models require a variety of inputs, including
    contractual terms, market prices, yield curves, credit curves,
    measures of volatility, voluntary and involuntary prepayment
    rates, loss severity rates and correlations of such inputs. For
    OTC derivatives that trade in liquid markets, such as generic
    forwards, swaps and options, model inputs can generally be
    verified and model selection does not involve significant
    management judgment. OTC derivatives are classified within
    level 2 of the fair value hierarchy when all of the
    significant inputs can be corroborated to market evidence.

Certain OTC derivatives trade in less liquid markets with
    limited pricing information, and the determination of fair value
    for these derivatives is inherently more difficult. Such
    instruments are classified within level 3 of the fair value
    hierarchy. Where the firm does not have corroborating market
    evidence to support significant model inputs and cannot verify
    the model to market transactions, the transaction price is
    initially used as the best estimate of fair value. Accordingly,
    when a pricing model is used to value such an instrument, the
    model is adjusted so that the model value at inception equals
    the transaction price. The valuations of these less liquid OTC
    derivatives are typically based on level 1
     and/or 
    level 2 inputs that can be observed in the market, as well
    as unobservable level 3 inputs. Subsequent to initial
    recognition, the firm updates the level 1 and level 2
    inputs to reflect observable market changes, with resulting
    gains and losses reflected within level 3. Level 3
    inputs are only changed when corroborated by evidence such as
    similar market transactions,
     third-party 
    pricing services
     and/or 
    broker or dealer quotations, or other empirical market data. In
    circumstances where the firm cannot verify the model value to
    market transactions, it is possible that a different valuation
    model could produce a materially different estimate of fair
    value.

When appropriate, valuations are adjusted for various factors
    such as liquidity, bid/offer spreads and credit considerations.
    Such adjustments are generally based on market evidence where
    available. In the absence of such evidence, management s
    best estimate is used.

Collateralized Agreements and
    Financings.   Collateralized agreements consist of
    resale agreements and securities borrowed. Collateralized
    financings consist of repurchase agreements, securities loaned
    and other secured financings. Interest on collateralized
    agreements and collateralized financings is recognized in
     Interest income  and  Interest expense, 
    respectively, in the consolidated statements of earnings over
    the life of the transaction. Collateralized agreements and
    financings are presented on a
     net-by-counterparty 
    basis when a right of setoff exists.

136

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Resale and Repurchase Agreements.   Securities
    purchased under agreements to resell and securities sold under
    agreements to repurchase, principally U.S. government,
    federal agency and
     investment-grade 
    sovereign obligations, represent collateralized financing
    transactions. The firm receives securities purchased under
    agreements to resell, makes delivery of securities sold under
    agreements to repurchase, monitors the market value of these
    securities on a daily basis and delivers or obtains additional
    collateral as appropriate. As noted above, resale and repurchase
    agreements are carried in the consolidated statements of
    financial condition at fair value under the fair value option.
    Resale and repurchase agreements are generally valued based on
    inputs with reasonable levels of price transparency and are
    generally classified within level 2 of the fair value
    hierarchy.

Securities Borrowed and Loaned.   Securities
    borrowed and loaned are generally collateralized by cash,
    securities or letters of credit. The firm receives securities
    borrowed, makes delivery of securities loaned, monitors the
    market value of securities borrowed and loaned, and delivers or
    obtains additional collateral as appropriate. Securities
    borrowed and loaned within Securities Services, relating to both
    customer activities and, to a lesser extent, certain firm
    financing activities, are recorded based on the amount of cash
    collateral advanced or received plus accrued interest. As these
    arrangements generally can be terminated on demand, they exhibit
    little, if any, sensitivity to changes in interest rates. As
    noted above, securities borrowed and loaned within Trading and
    Principal Investments, which are related to the firm s
    matched book and certain firm financing activities, are recorded
    at fair value under the fair value option. These securities
    borrowed and loaned transactions are generally valued based on
    inputs with reasonable levels of price transparency and are
    classified within level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

Other Secured Financings.   In addition to
    repurchase agreements and securities loaned, the firm funds
    assets through the use of other secured financing arrangements
    and pledges financial instruments and other assets as collateral
    in these transactions. As noted above, the firm has elected to
    apply the fair value option to transfers accounted for as
    financings rather than sales, debt raised through the
    firm s William Street credit extension program and certain
    other nonrecourse financings, for which the use of fair value
    eliminates
     non-economic 
    volatility in earnings that would arise from using different
    measurement attributes. These other secured financing
    transactions are generally classified within level 2 of the
    fair value hierarchy. Other secured financings that are not
    recorded at fair value are recorded based on the amount of cash
    received plus accrued interest. See Note 3 for further
    information regarding other secured financings.

Hybrid Financial Instruments.   Hybrid financial
    instruments are instruments that contain bifurcatable embedded
    derivatives and do not require settlement by physical delivery
    of
     non-financial 
    assets (e.g., physical commodities). If the firm elects to
    bifurcate the embedded derivative from the associated debt, it
    is accounted for at fair value and the host contract is
    accounted for at amortized cost, adjusted for the effective
    portion of any fair value hedge accounting relationships. If the
    firm does not elect to bifurcate, the entire hybrid financial
    instrument is accounted for at fair value under the fair value
    option. See Notes 3 and 6 for further information regarding
    hybrid financial instruments.

Transfers of Financial Assets.   In general,
    transfers of financial assets are accounted for as sales when
    the firm has relinquished control over the transferred assets.
    For transfers accounted for as sales, any related gains or
    losses are recognized in net revenues. Transfers that are not
    accounted for as sales are accounted for as collateralized
    financings, with the related interest expense recognized in net
    revenues over the life of the transaction. See
        Recent 
    Accounting Developments  below for information regarding
    amendments to accounting for transfers of financial assets.

137

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Commissions.   Commission revenues from
    executing and clearing client transactions on stock, options and
    futures markets are recognized in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings on
    a  trade-date 
    basis.

Insurance Activities.   Certain of the
    firm s insurance and reinsurance contracts are accounted
    for at fair value under the fair value option, with changes in
    fair value included in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings.

Revenues from variable annuity and life insurance and
    reinsurance contracts not accounted for at fair value generally
    consist of fees assessed on contract holder account balances for
    mortality charges, policy administration fees and surrender
    charges, and are recognized in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings in
    the period that services are provided.

Interest credited to variable annuity and life insurance and
    reinsurance contract account balances and changes in reserves
    are recognized in  Other expenses  in the consolidated
    statements of earnings.

Premiums earned for underwriting property catastrophe
    reinsurance are recognized in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings
    over the coverage period, net of premiums ceded for the cost of
    reinsurance. Expenses for liabilities related to property
    catastrophe reinsurance claims, including estimates of losses
    that have been incurred but not reported, are recognized in
     Other expenses  in the consolidated statements of
    earnings.

Merchant Banking Overrides.   The firm is
    entitled to receive merchant banking overrides (i.e., an
    increased share of a fund s income and gains) when the
    return on the funds  investments exceeds certain threshold
    returns. Overrides are based on investment performance over the
    life of each merchant banking fund, and future investment
    underperformance may require amounts of override previously
    distributed to the firm to be returned to the funds.
    Accordingly, overrides are recognized in the consolidated
    statements of earnings only when all material contingencies have
    been resolved. Overrides are included in  Trading and
    principal investments  in the consolidated statements of
    earnings.

Asset Management.   Management fees are
    recognized over the period that the related service is provided
    based upon average net asset values. In certain circumstances,
    the firm is also entitled to receive incentive fees based on a
    percentage of a fund s return or when the return on assets
    under management exceeds specified benchmark returns or other
    performance targets. Incentive fees are generally based on
    investment performance over a
     12-month 
    period and are subject to adjustment prior to the end of the
    measurement period. Accordingly, incentive fees are recognized
    in the consolidated statements of earnings when the measurement
    period ends. Asset management fees and incentive fees are
    included in  Asset management and securities services 
    in the consolidated statements of earnings.

Share-Based 
    Compensation   

The cost of employee services received in exchange for a
     share-based 
    award is generally measured based on the grant-date fair value
    of the award in accordance with ASC 718.
     Share-based 
    awards that do not require future service (i.e., vested
    awards, including awards granted to retirement-eligible
    employees) are expensed immediately.
     Share-based 
    employee awards that require future service are amortized over
    the relevant service period. Expected forfeitures are included
    in determining
     share-based 
    employee compensation expense.

138

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm pays cash dividend equivalents on outstanding
    restricted stock units (RSUs). Dividend equivalents paid on RSUs
    are generally charged to retained earnings. Dividend equivalents
    paid on RSUs expected to be forfeited are included in
    compensation expense. In the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the
    firm adopted amended accounting principles related to income tax
    benefits of dividends on
     share-based 
    payment awards (ASC 718). These amended principles require the
    tax benefit related to dividend equivalents paid on RSUs to be
    accounted for as an increase to additional
     paid-in 
    capital. Previously, the firm accounted for this tax benefit as
    a reduction to income tax expense. See
        Recent 
    Accounting Developments  below for further information on
    these amended principles.

In certain cases, primarily related to the death of an employee
    or conflicted employment (as outlined in the applicable award
    agreements), the firm may cash settle
     share-based 
    compensation awards. For awards accounted for as equity
    instruments, additional
     paid-in 
    capital is adjusted to the extent of the difference between the
    current value of the award and the grant-date value of the award.

Goodwill   

Goodwill is the cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair
    value of identifiable net assets at acquisition date. Goodwill
    is tested at least annually for impairment. An impairment loss
    is recognized if the estimated fair value of an operating
    segment, which is a component one level below the firm s
    three business segments, is less than its estimated net book
    value. Such loss is calculated as the difference between the
    estimated fair value of goodwill and its carrying value.

Identifiable
    Intangible Assets   

Identifiable intangible assets, which consist primarily of
    customer lists, New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Designated Market
    Maker (DMM) rights and the value of business acquired
    (VOBA) in the firm s insurance subsidiaries, are amortized
    over their estimated lives or, in the case of insurance
    contracts, in proportion to estimated gross profits or premium
    revenues. Identifiable intangible assets are tested for
    impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest
    that an asset s or asset group s carrying value may
    not be fully recoverable. An impairment loss, generally
    calculated as the difference between the estimated fair value
    and the carrying value of an asset or asset group, is recognized
    if the sum of the estimated undiscounted cash flows relating to
    the asset or asset group is less than the corresponding carrying
    value.

Property,
    Leasehold Improvements and Equipment   

Property, leasehold improvements and equipment, net of
    accumulated depreciation and amortization, are recorded at cost
    and included in  Other assets  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition.

Substantially all property and equipment are depreciated on a
    straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset. Leasehold
    improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the
    useful life of the improvement or the term of the lease,
    whichever is shorter. Certain costs of software developed or
    obtained for internal use are capitalized and amortized on a
    straight-line basis over the useful life of the software.

Property, leasehold improvements and equipment are tested for
    impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest
    that an asset s or asset group s carrying value may
    not be fully recoverable. An impairment loss, calculated as the
    difference between the estimated fair value and the carrying
    value of an asset or asset group, is recognized if the sum of
    the expected undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset or
    asset group is less than the corresponding carrying value.

The firm s operating leases include office space held in
    excess of current requirements. Rent expense relating to space
    held for growth is included in  Occupancy  in the
    consolidated statements of

139

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

earnings. The firm records a liability, based on the fair value
    of the remaining lease rentals reduced by any potential or
    existing sublease rentals, for leases where the firm has ceased
    using the space and management has concluded that the firm will
    not derive any future economic benefits. Costs to terminate a
    lease before the end of its term are recognized and measured at
    fair value upon termination.

Foreign
    Currency Translation   

Assets and liabilities denominated in
     non-U.S. currencies 
    are translated at rates of exchange prevailing on the date of
    the consolidated statements of financial condition, and revenues
    and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange for the
    period. Gains or losses on translation of the financial
    statements of a
     non-U.S. operation, 
    when the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar,
    are included, net of hedges and taxes, in the consolidated
    statements of comprehensive income. The firm seeks to reduce its
    net investment exposure to fluctuations in foreign exchange
    rates through the use of foreign currency forward contracts and
    foreign
     currency-denominated 
    debt. For foreign currency forward contracts, hedge
    effectiveness is assessed based on changes in forward exchange
    rates; accordingly, forward points are reflected as a component
    of the currency translation adjustment in the consolidated
    statements of comprehensive income. For foreign
    currency-denominated debt, hedge effectiveness is assessed based
    on changes in spot rates. Foreign currency remeasurement gains
    or losses on transactions in nonfunctional currencies are
    included in the consolidated statements of earnings.

Income
    Taxes   

Income taxes are provided for using the asset and liability
    method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for
    temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax
    bases of the firm s assets and liabilities. Valuation
    allowances are established to reduce deferred tax assets to the
    amount that more likely than not will be realized. The
    firm s tax assets and liabilities are presented as a
    component of  Other assets  and  Other
    liabilities and accrued expenses,  respectively, in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition. The firm adopted
    amended accounting principles related to the accounting for
    uncertainty in income taxes (ASC 740) as of
    December 1, 2007, and recorded a transition adjustment
    resulting in a reduction of $201 million to beginning
    retained earnings in the first fiscal quarter of 2008. The firm
    recognizes tax positions in the financial statements only when
    it is more likely than not that the position will be sustained
    upon examination by the relevant taxing authority based on the
    technical merits of the position. A position that meets this
    standard is measured at the largest amount of benefit that will
    more likely than not be realized upon settlement. A liability is
    established for differences between positions taken in a tax
    return and amounts recognized in the financial statements. The
    firm reports interest expense related to income tax matters in
     Provision for taxes  in the consolidated statements
    of earnings and income tax penalties in  Other
    expenses  in the consolidated statements of earnings.

Earnings Per
    Common Share (EPS)   

Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net earnings applicable to
    common shareholders by the weighted average number of common
    shares outstanding. Common shares outstanding includes common
    stock and RSUs for which no future service is required as a
    condition to the delivery of the underlying common stock.
    Diluted EPS includes the determinants of basic EPS and, in
    addition, reflects the dilutive effect of the common stock
    deliverable pursuant to stock warrants and options and to RSUs
    for which future service is required as a condition to the
    delivery of the underlying common stock. In the first quarter of
    fiscal 2009, the firm adopted amended accounting principles
    related to determining whether instruments granted in
     share-based 
    payment transactions are participating

140

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

securities. Accordingly, the firm treats unvested
     share-based 
    payment awards that have
     non-forfeitable 
    rights to dividends or dividend equivalents as a separate class
    of securities in calculating earnings per common share. See
        Recent 
    Accounting Developments  below for further information on
    these amended principles.

Cash and Cash
    Equivalents   

The firm defines cash equivalents as highly liquid overnight
    deposits held in the ordinary course of business. As of
    December 2009 and November 2008,  Cash and cash
    equivalents  on the consolidated statements of financial
    condition included $4.45 billion and $5.60 billion,
    respectively, of cash and due from banks and $33.84 billion
    and $10.14 billion, respectively, of interest-bearing
    deposits with banks.

Recent
    Accounting Developments   

FASB Accounting Standards Codification.   In
    July 2009, the FASB launched the FASB Accounting Standards
    Codification (the Codification) as the single source of GAAP.
    While the Codification did not change GAAP, it introduced a new
    structure to the accounting literature and changed references to
    accounting standards and other authoritative accounting
    guidance. The Codification was effective for the firm for the
    third quarter of fiscal 2009 and did not have an effect on the
    firm s financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

Accounting for Income Tax Benefits of Dividends on
     Share-Based 
    Payment Awards (ASC 718).   In June 2007,
    the FASB issued amended accounting principles related to income
    tax benefits of dividends on
     share-based 
    payment awards, which require that the tax benefit related to
    dividend equivalents paid on RSUs, which are expected to vest,
    be recorded as an increase to additional
     paid-in 
    capital. The firm previously accounted for this tax benefit as a
    reduction to income tax expense. These amended accounting
    principles were applied prospectively for tax benefits on
    dividend equivalents declared beginning in the first quarter of
    fiscal 2009. Adoption did not have a material effect on the
    firm s financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

Accounting for Transfers of Financial Assets and Repurchase
    Financing Transactions (ASC 860).   In
    February 2008, the FASB issued amended accounting
    principles related to transfers of financial assets and
    repurchase financing transactions. These amended principles
    require an initial transfer of a financial asset and a
    repurchase financing that was entered into contemporaneously or
    in contemplation of the initial transfer to be evaluated as a
    linked transaction (for purposes of determining whether a sale
    has occurred) unless certain criteria are met, including that
    the transferred asset must be readily obtainable in the
    marketplace. The firm adopted these amended accounting
    principles for new transactions entered into after
    November 2008. Adoption did not have a material effect on
    the firm s financial condition, results of operations or
    cash flows.

Disclosures About Derivative Instruments and Hedging
    Activities (ASC 815).   In March 2008, the
    FASB issued amended principles related to disclosures about
    derivative instruments and hedging activities, which were
    effective for the firm beginning in the one month ended
    December 2008. Since these amended principles require only
    additional disclosures concerning derivatives and hedging
    activities, adoption did not affect the firm s financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Determining Whether Instruments Granted in
     Share-Based 
    Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities (ASC
    260).   In June 2008, the FASB issued amended
    accounting principles related to determining whether instruments
    granted in
     share-based 
    payment transactions are participating securities. These amended
    principles require companies to treat unvested
     share-based 

141

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

payment awards that have
     non-forfeitable 
    rights to dividends or dividend equivalents as a separate class
    of securities in calculating earnings per common share under the
    two-class method. The firm adopted these amended accounting
    principles in the first quarter of fiscal 2009. The impact to
    basic earnings per common share for the year ended
    December 2009 was a reduction of $0.06 per common share.
    There was no impact on diluted earnings per common share for the
    year ended December 2009. Prior periods have not been
    restated due to immateriality.

Business Combinations (ASC 805).   In
    December 2007, the FASB issued amended accounting
    principles related to business combinations, which changed the
    accounting for transaction costs, certain contingent assets and
    liabilities, and other balances in a business combination. In
    addition, in partial acquisitions, when control is obtained, the
    amended principles require that the acquiring company measure
    and record all of the target s assets and liabilities,
    including goodwill, at fair value as if the entire target
    company had been acquired. These amended accounting principles
    applied to the firm s business combinations beginning in
    the first quarter of fiscal 2009. Adoption did not affect the
    firm s financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows, but may have an effect on accounting for future business
    combinations.

Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements
    (ASC 810).   In December 2007, the FASB issued
    amended accounting principles related to noncontrolling
    interests in consolidated financial statements, which require
    that ownership interests in consolidated subsidiaries held by
    parties other than the parent (i.e., noncontrolling
    interests) be accounted for and presented as equity, rather than
    as a liability or mezzanine equity. These amended accounting
    principles were effective for the firm beginning in the first
    quarter of fiscal 2009. Adoption did not have a material effect
    on the firm s financial condition, results of operations or
    cash flows.

Disclosures by Public Entities (Enterprises) about Transfers
    of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable Interest Entities
    (ASC 860 and 810).   In December 2008, the
    FASB issued amended principles related to disclosures by public
    entities (enterprises) about transfers of financial assets and
    interests in variable interest entities, which were effective
    for the firm beginning in the one month ended
    December 2008. Since these amended principles require only
    additional disclosures concerning transfers of financial assets
    and interests in VIEs, adoption did not affect the firm s
    financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Determining Whether an Instrument (or Embedded Feature) Is
    Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock (ASC
    815).   In June 2008, the FASB issued amended
    accounting principles related to determining whether an
    instrument (or embedded feature) is indexed to an entity s
    own stock. These amended accounting principles provide guidance
    about whether an instrument (such as the firm s outstanding
    common stock warrants) should be classified as equity and not
    subsequently recorded at fair value. The firm adopted these
    amended accounting principles in the first quarter of fiscal
    2009. Adoption did not affect the firm s financial
    condition, results of operations or cash flows.

Determining Fair Value When the Volume and Level of Activity
    for the Asset or Liability Have Significantly Decreased and
    Identifying Transactions That Are Not Orderly (ASC
    820).   In April 2009, the FASB issued amended
    accounting principles related to determining fair value when the
    volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have
    significantly decreased and identifying transactions that are
    not orderly. Specifically, these amended principles list factors
    which should be evaluated to determine whether a transaction is
    orderly, clarify that adjustments to transactions or quoted
    prices may be necessary when the volume and level of activity
    for an asset or liability have decreased significantly, and
    provide guidance for determining the concurrent weighting of the
    transaction price relative to fair value indications from other
    valuation techniques when estimating fair value. The firm
    adopted these amended accounting principles in the second
    quarter of fiscal 2009.

142

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Since the firm s fair value methodologies were consistent
    with these amended accounting principles, adoption did not
    affect the firm s financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

Recognition and Presentation of
     Other-Than-Temporary 
    Impairments (ASC 320).   In April 2009, the
    FASB issued amended accounting principles related to recognition
    and presentation of
     other-than-temporary 
    impairments. These amended principles prescribe that only the
    portion of an
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment on a debt security related to credit loss is
    recognized in current period earnings, with the remainder
    recognized in other comprehensive income, if the holder does not
    intend to sell the security and it is more likely than not that
    the holder will not be required to sell the security prior to
    recovery. Previously, the entire
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment was recognized in current period earnings. The firm
    adopted these amended accounting principles in the second
    quarter of fiscal 2009. Adoption did not have a material effect
    on the firm s financial condition, results of operations or
    cash flows.

Interim Disclosures about Fair Value of Financial Instruments
    (ASC 825).   In April 2009, the FASB issued
    amended principles related to interim disclosures about fair
    value of financial instruments. The firm adopted these amended
    principles in the second quarter of fiscal 2009. Adoption did
    not affect the firm s financial condition, results of
    operations or cash flows.

Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable
    Interest Entities (ASC 860 and 810).   In
    June 2009, the FASB issued amended accounting principles
    which change the accounting for securitizations and VIEs. These
    principles were codified as Accounting Standards Update
     (ASU) No. 2009-16, 
     Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860)   Accounting
    for Transfers of Financial Assets  and ASU
     No. 2009-17, 
     Consolidations (Topic 810)   Improvements to
    Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable
    Interest Entities  in December 2009. ASU
     No. 2009-16 
    eliminates the concept of a QSPE, changes the requirements for
    derecognizing financial assets, and requires additional
    disclosures about transfers of financial assets, including
    securitization transactions and continuing involvement with
    transferred financial assets. ASU
     No. 2009-17 
    changes the determination of when a VIE should be consolidated.
    Under ASU
     No. 2009-17, 
    the determination of whether to consolidate a VIE is based on
    the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most
    significantly impact the VIE s economic performance
    together with either the obligation to absorb losses or the
    right to receive benefits that could be significant to the VIE,
    as well as the VIE s purpose and design. ASU
     No. 2009-16 
    and  2009-17 
    are effective for fiscal years beginning after
    November 15, 2009. In February 2010, the FASB
    finalized a standard which defers the requirements of ASU
     No. 2009-17 
    for certain interests in investment funds and certain similar
    entities. Adoption of ASU Nos.
     2009-16  and
     2009-17  on
    January 1, 2010 did not have a material effect on the
    firm s financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows. However, continued application of these principles
    requires the firm to make judgments that are subject to change
    based on new facts and circumstances, and evolving
    interpretations and practices.

Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures   Measuring
    Liabilities at Fair Value (ASC 820).   In
    August 2009, the FASB issued ASU
     No. 2009-05, 
     Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic
    820)   Measuring Liabilities at Fair Value.  ASU
     No. 2009-05 
    provides guidance in measuring liabilities when a quoted price
    in an active market for an identical liability is not available
    and clarifies that a reporting entity should not make an
    adjustment to fair value for a restriction that prevents the
    transfer of the liability. The firm adopted ASU
     No. 2009-05 
    in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Since the firm s fair
    value methodologies were consistent with ASU
     No. 2009-5, 
    adoption did not affect the firm s financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

Investments in Certain Entities That Calculate Net Asset
    Value per Share (or Its Equivalent) (ASC 820).   In
    September 2009, the FASB issued ASU
     No. 2009-12, 
     Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic
    820)   Investments in Certain Entities That Calculate
    Net

143

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent).  ASU
     No. 2009-12 
    provides guidance about using net asset value to measure the
    fair value of interests in certain investment funds and requires
    additional disclosures about interests in investment funds. The
    firm adopted ASU
     No. 2009-12 
    in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2009. Since the firm s fair
    value methodologies were consistent with ASU
     No. 2009-12, 
    adoption did not affect the firm s financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows.

Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements (ASC
    820).   In January 2010, the FASB issued ASU
     No. 2010-06, 
     Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (Topic
    820)   Improving Disclosures about Fair Value
    Measurements.  ASU
     No. 2010-06 
    provides amended disclosure requirements related to fair value
    measurements. ASU
     No. 2010-06 
    is effective for financial statements issued for reporting
    periods beginning after December 15, 2009 for certain
    disclosures and for reporting periods beginning after
    December 15, 2010 for other disclosures. Since these
    amended principles require only additional disclosures
    concerning fair value measurements, adoption will not affect the
    firm s financial condition, results of operations or cash
    flows.

144

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 3.    

Financial
    Instruments  

Fair Value of
    Financial Instruments   

The following table sets forth the firm s trading assets,
    at fair value, including those pledged as collateral, and
    trading liabilities, at fair value. At any point in time, the
    firm may use cash instruments as well as derivatives to manage a
    long or short risk position.

(1)   

Includes $4.31 billion and
    $4.40 billion as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively, of money market instruments
    held by William Street Funding Corporation (Funding Corp.) to
    support the William Street credit extension program. See
    Note 8 for further information regarding the William Street
    credit extension program.

(2)   

Net of cash received pursuant to
    credit support agreements of $124.60 billion and
    $137.16 billion as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively.

(3)   

Includes $3.86 billion and
    $1.68 billion as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively, of securities held within the
    firm s insurance subsidiaries which are accounted for as
     available-for-sale. 

(4)   

Consists of the fair value of
    unfunded commitments to extend credit. The fair value of
    partially funded commitments is included in trading assets, at
    fair value.

(5)   

Net of cash paid pursuant to credit
    support agreements of $14.74 billion and
    $34.01 billion as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively.

145

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Fair Value
    Hierarchy   

The firm s financial assets at fair value classified within
    level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are summarized below:

(1)   

Excludes assets which are financed
    by nonrecourse debt, attributable to minority investors or
    attributable to employee interests in certain consolidated funds.

The following tables set forth by level within the fair value
    hierarchy trading assets, at fair value, trading liabilities, at
    fair value, and other financial assets and financial liabilities
    accounted for at fair value under the fair value option as of
    December 2009 and November 2008. See Note 2 for
    further information on the fair value hierarchy. Assets and
    liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest
    level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement.

146

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)  

Includes $291 million and $311 million of CDOs and
    collateralized loan obligations (CLOs) backed by real estate
    within level 2 and level 3, respectively, of the fair
    value hierarchy.

(2)  

Consists of acquired portfolios of distressed loans, primarily
    backed by commercial and residential real estate collateral.

(3)  

Includes $338 million and $741 million of CDOs and
    CLOs backed by corporate obligations within level 2 and
    level 3, respectively, of the fair value hierarchy.

(4)  

Consists of level 3 assets which are financed by
    nonrecourse debt, attributable to minority investors or
    attributable to employee interests in certain consolidated funds.

(5)  

Consists of publicly listed equity securities.

(6)  

Principally consists of U.S. Department of the Treasury
    (U.S. Treasury) securities and money market instruments as
    well as insurance separate account assets measured at fair value.

(7)  

Substantially all of the firm s level 2 equities and
    convertible debentures are less liquid publicly listed
    securities.

(8)  

Includes $31.44 billion and $9.58 billion of credit
    derivative assets within level 2 and level 3,
    respectively, of the fair value hierarchy. These amounts exclude
    the effects of netting under enforceable netting agreements
    across other derivative product types.

(9)  

Principally consists of securities borrowed and resale
    agreements. The underlying securities have been segregated to
    satisfy certain regulatory requirements.

(10)  

Substantially all consists of private equity investments and
    real estate fund investments. Includes $10.56 billion of
    private equity investments, $1.23 billion of real estate
    investments and $79 million of convertible debentures.

(11)  

Represents cash collateral and the impact of netting across the
    levels of the fair value hierarchy. Netting among positions
    classified within the same level is included in that level.

147

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)  

Includes $45 million of CDOs and CLOs backed by corporate
    obligations within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

(2)  

Substantially all consists of publicly listed equity securities.

(3)  

Includes $7.96 billion and $3.20 billion of credit
    derivative liabilities within level 2 and level 3,
    respectively, of the fair value hierarchy. These amounts exclude
    the effects of netting under enforceable netting agreements
    across other derivative product types.

(4)  

Level 3 liabilities were 6.6% of Total financial
    liabilities at fair value.

(5)  

Represents cash collateral and the impact of netting across the
    levels of the fair value hierarchy. Netting among positions
    classified within the same level is included in that level.

148

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)  

Consists of level 3 assets which are financed by
    nonrecourse debt, attributable to minority investors or
    attributable to employee interests in certain consolidated funds.

(2)  

Consists of U.S. Treasury securities and money market
    instruments as well as insurance separate account assets
    measured at fair value.

(3)  

Includes $66.00 billion and $8.32 billion of credit
    derivative assets within level 2 and level 3,
    respectively, of the fair value hierarchy. These amounts exclude
    the effects of netting under enforceable netting agreements
    across other derivative product types.

(4)  

Principally consists of securities borrowed and resale
    agreements. The underlying securities have been segregated to
    satisfy certain regulatory requirements.

(5)  

Substantially all consists of private equity investments and
    real estate fund investments.

(6)  

Represents cash collateral and the impact of netting across the
    levels of the fair value hierarchy. Netting among positions
    classified within the same level is included in that level.

149

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)  

Includes $31.20 billion and $4.74 billion of credit
    derivative liabilities within level 2 and level 3,
    respectively, of the fair value hierarchy. These amounts exclude
    the effects of netting under enforceable netting agreements
    across other derivative product types.

(2)  

Level 3 liabilities were 7.0% of Total financial
    liabilities at fair value.

(3)  

Represents cash collateral and the impact of netting across the
    levels of the fair value hierarchy. Netting among positions
    classified within the same level is included in that level.

150

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Level 3
    Unrealized Gains/(Losses)   

The table below sets forth a summary of unrealized
    gains/(losses) on the firm s level 3 financial assets
    and financial liabilities at fair value still held at the
    reporting date for the years ended December 2009,
    November 2008 and November 2007 and one month ended
    December 2008:

Cash
    Instruments   

The net unrealized loss on level 3 cash instruments of
    $4.31 billion for the year ended December 2009
    primarily consisted of unrealized losses on private equity
    investments and real estate fund investments, and loans and
    securities backed by commercial real estate, reflecting weakness
    in these less liquid asset classes. The net unrealized loss on
    level 3 cash instruments of $12.36 billion for the
    year ended November 2008 primarily consisted of unrealized
    losses on loans and securities backed by commercial real estate,
    certain bank loans and bridge loans, private equity investments
    and real estate fund investments. The net unrealized loss on
    level 3 cash instruments of $3.19 billion for the one
    month ended December 2008 primarily consisted of unrealized
    losses on certain bank loans and bridge loans, private equity
    investments and real estate fund investments, and loans and
    securities backed by commercial real estate. Losses during
    December 2008 reflected the weakness in the global credit
    and equity markets.

Level 3 cash instruments are frequently economically hedged
    with instruments classified within level 1 and
    level 2, and accordingly, gains or losses that have been
    reported in level 3 can be partially offset by gains or
    losses attributable to instruments classified within
    level 1 or level 2 or by gains or losses on derivative
    contracts classified within level 3 of the fair value
    hierarchy.

151

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Derivative
    Contracts   

The net unrealized loss on level 3 derivative contracts of
    $1.02 billion for the year ended December 2009 was
    primarily attributable to tighter credit spreads on the
    underlying instruments and increases in underlying equity index
    prices, partially offset by increases in commodities prices (all
    of which are level 2 observable inputs). The net unrealized
    gain on level 3 derivative contracts of $5.58 billion
    for the year ended November 2008 was primarily attributable
    to changes in observable credit spreads (which are level 2
    inputs) on the underlying instruments. The net unrealized loss
    on level 3 derivative contracts of $210 million for
    the one month ended December 2008 was primarily
    attributable to changes in observable prices on the underlying
    instruments (which are level 2 inputs). Level 3 gains
    and losses on derivative contracts should be considered in the
    context of the following:

A derivative contract with level 1
     and/or 
    level 2 inputs is classified as a level 3 financial
    instrument in its entirety if it has at least one significant
    level 3 input.

If there is one significant level 3 input, the entire gain
    or loss from adjusting only observable inputs
    (i.e., level 1 and level 2) is still
    classified as level 3.

Gains or losses that have been reported in level 3
    resulting from changes in level 1 or level 2 inputs
    are frequently offset by gains or losses attributable to
    instruments classified within level 1 or level 2 or by
    cash instruments reported within level 3 of the fair value
    hierarchy.

The tables below set forth a summary of changes in the fair
    value of the firm s level 3 financial assets and
    financial liabilities at fair value for the years ended
    December 2009 and November 2008 and one month ended
    December 2008. The tables reflect gains and losses,
    including gains and losses for the entire period on financial
    assets and financial liabilities at fair value that were
    transferred to level 3 during the period, for all financial
    assets and financial liabilities at fair value categorized as
    level 3 as of December 2009, November 2008 and
    December 2008, respectively. The tables do not include
    gains or losses that were reported in level 3 in prior
    periods for instruments that were sold or transferred out of
    level 3 prior to the end of the period presented.

152

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)  

The aggregate amounts include approximately $(4.69) billion and
    $1.64 billion reported in  Trading and principal
    investments  and  Interest income,  respectively,
    in the consolidated statements of earnings for the year ended
    December 2009.

(2)  

Substantially all is reported in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings.

(3)  

Principally resulted from changes in level 2 inputs.

(4)  

Principally reflects the deconsolidation of certain loan
    portfolios for which the firm did not bear economic exposure.

(5)  

Principally reflects transfers to level 2 within the fair
    value hierarchy of certain private equity investments,
    reflecting improved transparency of prices for these financial
    instruments, primarily as a result of market transactions.

(6)  

Principally reflects transfers from level 3 unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings to level 3 other secured financings and level 3
    unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings related to changes in the terms of certain notes.

(7)  

Principally reflects transfers from level 2 within the fair
    value hierarchy of certain insurance contracts, reflecting
    reduced transparency of mortality curve inputs used to value
    these instruments as a result of less observable trading
    activity.

153

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)  

The aggregate amounts include approximately $(11.54) billion and
    $1.98 billion reported in  Trading and principal
    investments  and  Interest income,  respectively,
    in the consolidated statements of earnings for the year ended
    November 2008.

(2)  

Substantially all is reported in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings.

(3)  

Principally resulted from changes in level 2 inputs.

(4)  

Principally reflects transfers from level 2 within the fair
    value hierarchy of loans and securities backed by commercial
    real estate, reflecting reduced price transparency for these
    financial instruments.

(5)  

Principally reflects transfers to level 2 within the fair
    value hierarchy of
     mortgage-related 
    derivative assets, as recent trading activity provided improved
    transparency of correlation inputs. This decrease was partially
    offset by transfers from level 2 within the fair value
    hierarchy of credit and
     equity-linked 
    derivatives due to reduced price transparency.

(6)  

Consists of transfers from level 2 within the fair value
    hierarchy.

(1)  

The aggregate amounts include approximately $(3.18) billion and
    $221 million reported in  Trading and principal
    investments  and  Interest income,  respectively,
    in the consolidated statements of earnings for the one month
    ended December 2008.

(2)  

Substantially all is reported in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings.

(3)  

Principally resulted from changes in level 2 inputs.

(4)  

Principally reflects transfers from level 2 within the fair
    value hierarchy of certain corporate debt securities and other
    debt obligations and loans and securities backed by commercial
    real estate, reflecting reduced price transparency for these
    financial instruments.

(5)  

Principally reflects transfers to level 2 within the fair
    value hierarchy of
     credit-related 
    derivative assets, due to improved transparency of correlation
    inputs used to value these financial instruments.

154

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Impact of
    Credit Spreads   

On an ongoing basis, the firm realizes gains or losses relating
    to changes in credit risk on derivative contracts through
    changes in credit mitigants or the sale or unwind of the
    contracts. The net gain/(loss) attributable to the impact of
    changes in credit exposure and credit spreads on derivative
    contracts (including derivative assets and liabilities and
    related hedges) was $572 million, $(137) million,
    $86 million and $(188) million for the years ended
    December 2009, November 2008 and November 2007
    and one month ended December 2008, respectively.

The following table sets forth the net gains/(losses)
    attributable to the impact of changes in the firm s own
    credit spreads on borrowings for which the fair value option was
    elected. The firm calculates the fair value of borrowings by
    discounting future cash flows at a rate which incorporates the
    firm s observable credit spreads.

The net gain/(loss) attributable to changes in
    instrument-specific credit spreads on loans and loan commitments
    for which the fair value option was elected was
    $1.65 billion, $(4.61) billion and $(2.06) billion for the
    years ended December 2009 and November 2008 and one
    month ended December 2008, respectively. Such
    gains/(losses) were not material for the year ended
    November 2007. The firm attributes changes in the fair
    value of floating rate loans and loan commitments to changes in
    instrument-specific credit spreads. For fixed rate loans and
    loan commitments, the firm allocates changes in fair value
    between interest rate-related changes and credit spread-related
    changes based on changes in interest rates. See below for
    additional details regarding the fair value option.

155

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The Fair Value
    Option   

Gains/(Losses)   

The following table sets forth the gains/(losses) included in
    earnings for the years ended December 2009,
    November 2008 and November 2007 and one month ended
    December 2008 as a result of the firm electing to apply the
    fair value option to certain financial assets and financial
    liabilities, as described in Note 2. The table excludes
    gains and losses related to (i) trading assets, at fair
    value, and trading liabilities, at fair value, (ii) gains
    and losses on assets and liabilities that would have been
    accounted for at fair value under other GAAP if the firm had not
    elected the fair value option, and (iii) gains and losses
    on secured financings related to transfers of financial assets
    accounted for as financings rather than sales, as such gains and
    losses are offset by gains and losses on the related financial
    assets.

(1)   

Excludes gains/(losses) of $(4.15)
    billion, $2.42 billion, $(2.18) billion and $(623) million
    for the years ended December 2009, November 2008 and
    November 2007 and one month ended December 2008,
    respectively, related to the embedded derivative component of
    hybrid financial instruments. Such gains and losses would have
    been recognized even if the firm had not elected to account for
    the entire hybrid instrument at fair value under the fair value
    option.

(2)   

Excludes gains of $48 million,
    $1.29 billion and $2.19 billion for the years ended
    December 2009, November 2008 and November 2007,
    respectively, related to financings recorded as a result of
    transactions that were accounted for as secured financings
    rather than sales. Changes in the fair value of these secured
    financings are offset by changes in the fair value of the
    related financial instruments included in  Trading assets,
    at fair value  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition. Such gains/(losses) were not material for the one
    month ended December 2008.

(3)   

Excludes gains/(losses) of $(3.15)
    billion, $6.37 billion, $(1.07) billion and
    $92 million for the years ended December 2009,
    November 2008 and November 2007 and one month ended
    December 2008, respectively, related to the embedded
    derivative component of hybrid financial instruments. Such gains
    and losses would have been recognized even if the firm had not
    elected to account for the entire hybrid instrument at fair
    value under the fair value option.

(4)   

Primarily consists of
    gains/(losses) on certain reinsurance contracts.

(5)   

Primarily consists of
    gains/(losses) on certain insurance and reinsurance contracts.

(6)   

Primarily consists of
    gains/(losses) on resale and repurchase agreements, and
    securities borrowed and loaned within Trading and Principal
    Investments.

(7)   

Reported in  Trading and
    principal investments  in the consolidated statements of
    earnings. The amounts exclude contractual interest, which is
    included in  Interest income  and  Interest
    expense  in the consolidated statements of earnings, for
    all instruments other than hybrid financial instruments.

All trading assets and trading liabilities are accounted for at
    fair value either under the fair value option or as required by
    other accounting standards (principally ASC 320, ASC 940 and ASC
    815). Excluding equities commissions of $3.84 billion,
    $5.00 billion, $4.58 billion and $251 million for
    the years ended December 2009, November 2008 and
    November 2007 and one month ended December 2008,
    respectively, and the gains and losses on the instruments
    accounted for under the fair value option described above,
     Trading and principal investments  in the
    consolidated statements of earnings primarily represents gains
    and losses on  Trading assets, at fair value  and
     Trading liabilities, at fair value  in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition.

156

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Loans and Loan
    Commitments   

As of December 2009, the aggregate contractual principal
    amount of loans and
     long-term 
    receivables for which the fair value option was elected exceeded
    the related fair value by $41.96 billion, including a
    difference of $36.30 billion related to loans with an
    aggregate fair value of $4.28 billion that were on
    nonaccrual status (including loans more than 90 days past
    due). As of November 2008, the aggregate contractual
    principal amount of loans and
     long-term 
    receivables for which the fair value option was elected exceeded
    the related fair value by $50.21 billion, including a
    difference of $37.46 billion related to loans with an
    aggregate fair value of $3.77 billion that were on
    nonaccrual status (including loans more than 90 days past
    due). The aggregate contractual principal exceeds the related
    fair value primarily because the firm regularly purchases loans,
    such as distressed loans, at values significantly below
    contractual principal amounts.

As of December 2009 and November 2008, the fair value
    of unfunded lending commitments for which the fair value option
    was elected was a liability of $879 million and
    $3.52 billion, respectively, and the related total
    contractual amount of these lending commitments was
    $44.05 billion and $39.49 billion, respectively.

Long-term 
    Debt Instruments   

The aggregate contractual principal amount of
     long-term 
    debt instruments (principal and
     non-principal 
    protected) for which the fair value option was elected exceeded
    the related fair value by $752 million and
    $2.42 billion as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively.

157

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Investments in
    Funds That Calculate Net Asset Value Per Share   

The firm s investments in funds that calculate net asset
    value per share primarily consist of investments in
    firm-sponsored funds where the firm co-invests with third-party
    investors. The private equity, private debt and real estate
    funds are primarily closed-end funds in which the firm s
    investments are not eligible for redemption. Distributions will
    be received from these funds as the underlying assets are
    liquidated and it is estimated that substantially all of the
    underlying assets of these existing funds will be liquidated
    over the next 10 years. The firm s investments in
    hedge funds are generally redeemable on a quarterly basis with
    91 days notice, subject to a maximum redemption level of
    25% of the firm s initial investments at any quarter-end.
    The following table sets forth the fair value of the firm s
    investments in and unfunded commitments to funds that calculate
    net asset value per share:

(1)   

These funds primarily invest in a
    broad range of industries worldwide in a variety of situations,
    including leveraged buy-outs, recapitalizations, and growth
    investments.

(2)   

These funds generally invest in
    fixed income instruments and an associated equity component and
    are focused on providing private
     high-yield 
    capital for mid to large-sized leveraged and management buyout
    transactions, recapitalizations, financings, refinancings,
    acquisitions and restructurings for private equity firms,
    private family companies and corporate issuers.

(3)   

These funds are primarily
    multi-disciplinary hedge funds that employ a fundamental
     bottom-up 
    investment approach across various asset classes and strategies
    including long/short equity, credit, convertibles, risk
    arbitrage, special situations and capital structure arbitrage.

(4)   

These funds invest globally,
    primarily in real estate companies, loan portfolios, debt
    recapitalizations and direct property.

158

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Credit
    Concentrations   

Credit concentrations may arise from trading, investing,
    underwriting, lending and securities borrowing activities and
    may be impacted by changes in economic, industry or political
    factors. The firm seeks to mitigate credit risk by actively
    monitoring exposures and obtaining collateral as deemed
    appropriate. While the firm s activities expose it to many
    different industries and counterparties, the firm routinely
    executes a high volume of transactions with counterparties in
    the financial services industry, including brokers and dealers,
    commercial banks, clearing houses, exchanges and investment
    funds. This has resulted in significant credit concentration
    with respect to this industry. In the ordinary course of
    business, the firm may also be subject to a concentration of
    credit risk to a particular counterparty, borrower or issuer,
    including sovereign issuers, or to a particular clearing house
    or exchange.

As of December 2009 and November 2008, the firm held
    $83.83 billion (10% of total assets) and
    $53.98 billion (6% of total assets), respectively, of
    U.S. government and federal agency obligations included in
     Trading assets, at fair value  and  Cash and
    securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes  in
    the consolidated statements of financial condition. As of
    December 2009 and November 2008, the firm held
    $38.61 billion (5% of total assets) and $21.13 billion
    (2% of total assets), respectively, of other sovereign
    obligations, principally consisting of securities issued by the
    governments of the United Kingdom and Japan. In addition, as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, $87.63 billion
    and $126.27 billion of the firm s securities purchased
    under agreements to resell and securities borrowed (including
    those in  Cash and securities segregated for regulatory and
    other purposes ), respectively, were collateralized by
    U.S. government and federal agency obligations. As of
    December 2009 and November 2008, $77.99 billion
    and $65.37 billion of the firm s securities purchased
    under agreements to resell and securities borrowed,
    respectively, were collateralized by other sovereign
    obligations, principally consisting of securities issued by the
    governments of Germany, the United Kingdom and Japan. As of
    December 2009 and November 2008, the firm did not have
    credit exposure to any other counterparty that exceeded 2% of
    the firm s total assets.

Derivative
    Activities   

Derivative contracts are instruments, such as futures, forwards,
    swaps or option contracts, that derive their value from
    underlying assets, indices, reference rates or a combination of
    these factors. Derivative instruments may be privately
    negotiated contracts, which are often referred to as OTC
    derivatives, or they may be listed and traded on an exchange.
    Derivatives may involve future commitments to purchase or sell
    financial instruments or commodities, or to exchange currency or
    interest payment streams. The amounts exchanged are based on the
    specific terms of the contract with reference to specified
    rates, securities, commodities, currencies or indices.

Certain cash instruments, such as
     mortgage-backed 
    securities, interest-only and principal-only obligations, and
    indexed debt instruments, are not considered derivatives even
    though their values or contractually required cash flows are
    derived from the price of some other security or index. However,
    certain commodity-related contracts are included in the
    firm s derivatives disclosure, as these contracts may be
    settled in cash or the assets to be delivered under the contract
    are readily convertible into cash.

The firm enters into derivative transactions to facilitate
    client transactions, to take proprietary positions and as a
    means of risk management. Risk exposures are managed through
    diversification, by controlling position sizes and by entering
    into offsetting positions. For example, the firm may manage the
    risk related to a portfolio of common stock by entering into an
    offsetting position in a related
     equity-index 
    futures contract.

159

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm applies hedge accounting to certain derivative
    contracts. The firm uses these derivatives to manage certain
    interest rate and currency exposures, including the firm s
    net investment in
     non-U.S. operations. 
    The firm designates certain interest rate swap contracts as fair
    value hedges. These interest rate swap contracts hedge changes
    in the relevant benchmark interest rate (e.g., London
    Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)), effectively converting a
    substantial portion of the firm s unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, certain unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings and certificates of deposit into floating rate
    obligations. See Note 2 for information regarding the
    firm s accounting policy for foreign currency forward
    contracts used to hedge its net investment in
     non-U.S. operations. 

The firm applies a
     long-haul 
    method to all of its hedge accounting relationships to perform
    an ongoing assessment of the effectiveness of these
    relationships in achieving offsetting changes in fair value or
    offsetting cash flows attributable to the risk being hedged. The
    firm utilizes a
     dollar-offset 
    method, which compares the change in the fair value of the
    hedging instrument to the change in the fair value of the hedged
    item, excluding the effect of the passage of time, to
    prospectively and retrospectively assess hedge effectiveness
    under the
     long-haul 
    method. The firm s prospective
     dollar-offset 
    assessment utilizes scenario analyses to test hedge
    effectiveness via simulations of numerous parallel and slope
    shifts of the relevant yield curve. Parallel shifts change the
    interest rate of all maturities by identical amounts. Slope
    shifts change the curvature of the yield curve. For both the
    prospective assessment, in response to each of the simulated
    yield curve shifts, and the retrospective assessment, a hedging
    relationship is deemed to be effective if the fair value of the
    hedging instrument and the hedged item change inversely within a
    range of 80% to 125%.

For fair value hedges, gains or losses on derivative
    transactions are recognized in  Interest expense  in
    the consolidated statements of earnings. The change in fair
    value of the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged
    is reported as an adjustment to its carrying value and is
    subsequently amortized into interest expense over its remaining
    life. Gains or losses related to hedge ineffectiveness for these
    hedges are included in  Interest expense  in the
    consolidated statements of earnings. These gains or losses were
    not material for the years ended December 2009,
    November 2008 and November 2007 or the one month ended
    December 2008. Gains and losses on derivatives used for
    trading purposes are included in  Trading and principal
    investments  in the consolidated statements of earnings.

160

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The fair value of the firm s derivative contracts is
    reflected net of cash paid or received pursuant to credit
    support agreements and is reported on a
     net-by-counterparty 
    basis in the firm s consolidated statements of financial
    condition when management believes a legal right of setoff
    exists under an enforceable netting agreement. The following
    table sets forth the fair value and the number of contracts of
    the firm s derivative contracts by major product type on a
    gross basis as of December 2009. Gross fair values in the
    table below exclude the effects of both netting under
    enforceable netting agreements and netting of cash received or
    posted pursuant to credit support agreements, and therefore are
    not representative of the firm s exposure:

(1)   

As of November 2008, the gross
    fair value of derivative contracts accounted for as hedges
    consisted of $20.40 billion in assets and $128 million
    in liabilities.

(2)   

Represents the netting of
    receivable balances with payable balances for the same
    counterparty pursuant to enforceable netting agreements.

(3)   

Represents the netting of cash
    collateral received and posted on a counterparty basis pursuant
    to credit support agreements.

(4)   

Presented after giving effect to
    $412.08 billion of derivative assets and
    $395.57 billion of derivative liabilities settled with
    clearing organizations.

(5)   

For the year ended
    December 2009 and one month ended December 2008, the
    gain/(loss) recognized on interest rate derivative contracts
    accounted for as hedges was $(10.07) billion and
    $3.59 billion, respectively, and the related gain/(loss)
    recognized on the hedged borrowings and bank deposits was
    $9.95 billion and $(3.53) billion, respectively. These
    gains and losses are included in  Interest expense  in
    the consolidated statements of earnings. For the year ended
    December 2009, the gain/(loss) recognized on these
    derivative contracts included losses of $1.23 billion,
    which were excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
    Such excluded gains/(losses) were not material for the one month
    ended December 2008.

(6)   

For the year ended
    December 2009 and one month ended December 2008, the
    loss on currency derivative contracts accounted for as hedges
    was $495 million and $212 million, respectively. Such
    amounts are included in  Currency translation adjustment,
    net of tax  in the consolidated statements of comprehensive
    income. The gain/(loss) related to ineffectiveness and the
    gain/(loss) reclassified to earnings from accumulated other
    comprehensive income were not material for the year ended
    December 2009 or the one month ended December 2008.

161

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm also has embedded derivatives that have been bifurcated
    from related borrowings. Such derivatives, which are classified
    in unsecured
     short-term 
    and unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings in the firm s consolidated statements of
    financial condition, had a net asset carrying value of
    $96 million and $774 million as of December 2009
    and November 2008, respectively. The net asset as of
    December 2009, which represented 297 contracts, included
    gross assets of $478 million (primarily comprised of equity
    and interest rate derivatives) and gross liabilities of
    $382 million (primarily comprised of equity and interest
    rate derivatives). See Notes 6 and 7 for further
    information regarding the firm s unsecured borrowings.

As of December 2009 and November 2008, the firm has
    designated $3.38 billion and $3.36 billion,
    respectively, of foreign
     currency-denominated 
    debt, included in unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings and unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings in the firm s consolidated statements of
    financial condition, as hedges of net investments in
     non-U.S. subsidiaries. 
    For the year ended December 2009 and one month ended
    December 2008, the gain/(loss) on these debt instruments
    was $106 million and $(186) million, respectively. Such
    amounts are included in  Currency translation adjustment,
    net of tax  in the consolidated statements of comprehensive
    income. The gain/(loss) related to ineffectiveness and the
    gain/(loss) reclassified to earnings from accumulated other
    comprehensive income was not material for the year ended
    December 2009 or one month ended December 2008.

The following table sets forth by major product type the
    firm s gains/(losses) related to trading activities,
    including both derivative and nonderivative financial
    instruments, for the year ended December 2009 and one month
    ended December 2008. These gains/(losses) are not
    representative of the firm s individual business unit
    results because many of the firm s trading strategies
    utilize financial instruments across various product types.
    Accordingly, gains or losses in one product type frequently
    offset gains or losses in other product types. For example, most
    of the firm s longer-term derivative contracts are
    sensitive to changes in interest rates and may be economically
    hedged with interest rate swaps. Similarly, a significant
    portion of the firm s cash and derivatives trading
    inventory has exposure to foreign currencies and may be
    economically hedged with foreign currency contracts. The
    gains/(losses) set forth below are included in  Trading and
    principal investments  in the consolidated statements of
    earnings and exclude related interest income and interest
    expense.

(1)   

Includes gains/(losses) on currency
    contracts used to economically hedge positions included in other
    product types in this table.

Certain of the firm s derivative instruments have been
    transacted pursuant to bilateral agreements with certain
    counterparties that may require the firm to post collateral or
    terminate the transactions based on the firm s
     long-term 
    credit ratings. As of December 2009, the aggregate fair
    value of such derivative contracts that were in a net liability
    position was $20.85 billion, and the aggregate fair value
    of assets posted by the firm as collateral for these derivative
    contracts was $14.48 billion. As of December 2009,
    additional collateral or termination payments pursuant to
    bilateral agreements with certain counterparties of
    approximately $1.12 billion and $2.36 billion could
    have been called by counterparties in the event of a
     one-notch 
    and
     two-notch 
    reduction, respectively, in the firm s
     long-term 
    credit ratings.

162

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm enters into a broad array of credit derivatives to
    facilitate client transactions, to take proprietary positions
    and as a means of risk management. The firm uses each of the
    credit derivatives described below for these purposes. These
    credit derivatives are entered into by various trading desks
    around the world, and are actively managed based on the
    underlying risks. These activities are frequently part of a
    broader trading strategy and are dynamically managed based on
    the net risk position. As individually negotiated contracts,
    credit derivatives can have numerous settlement and payment
    conventions. The more common types of triggers include
    bankruptcy of the reference credit entity, acceleration of
    indebtedness, failure to pay, restructuring, repudiation and
    dissolution of the entity.

Credit default swaps:   Single-name credit
    default swaps protect the buyer against the loss of principal on
    one or more bonds, loans or mortgages (reference obligations) in
    the event of a default by the issuer (reference entity). The
    buyer of protection pays an initial or periodic premium to the
    seller and receives credit default protection for the period of
    the contract. If there is no credit default event, as defined by
    the specific derivative contract, then the seller of protection
    makes no payments to the buyer of protection. However, if a
    credit default event occurs, the seller of protection will be
    required to make a payment to the buyer of protection. Typical
    credit default events requiring payment include bankruptcy of
    the reference credit entity, failure to pay the principal or
    interest, and restructuring of the relevant obligations of the
    reference entity.

Credit indices, baskets and tranches:   Credit
    derivatives may reference a basket of single-name credit default
    swaps or a
     broad-based 
    index. Typically, in the event of a default of one of the
    underlying reference obligations, the protection seller will pay
    to the protection buyer a pro-rata portion of a
    transaction s total notional amount relating to the
    underlying defaulted reference obligation. In tranched
    transactions, the credit risk of a basket or index is separated
    into various portions each having different levels of
    subordination. The most junior tranches cover initial defaults,
    and once losses exceed the notional amount of these tranches,
    the excess is covered by the next most senior tranche in the
    capital structure.

Total return swaps:   A total return swap
    transfers the risks relating to economic performance of a
    reference obligation from the protection buyer to the protection
    seller. Typically, the protection buyer receives from the
    protection seller a floating rate of interest and protection
    against any reduction in fair value of the reference obligation,
    and in return the protection seller receives the cash flows
    associated with the reference obligation, plus any increase in
    the fair value of the reference obligation.

Credit options:   In a credit option, the option
    writer assumes the obligation to purchase or sell a reference
    obligation at a specified price or credit spread. The option
    purchaser buys the right to sell the reference obligation to, or
    purchase it from, the option writer. The payments on credit
    options depend either on a particular credit spread or the price
    of the reference obligation.

Substantially all of the firm s purchased credit derivative
    transactions are with financial institutions and are subject to
    stringent collateral thresholds. The firm economically hedges
    its exposure to written credit derivatives primarily by entering
    into offsetting purchased credit derivatives with identical
    underlyings. In addition, upon the occurrence of a specified
    trigger event, the firm may take possession of the reference
    obligations underlying a particular written credit derivative,
    and consequently may, upon liquidation of the reference
    obligations, recover amounts on the underlying reference
    obligations in the event of default. As of December 2009,
    the firm s written and purchased credit derivatives had
    total gross notional amounts of $2.54 trillion and
    $2.71 trillion, respectively, for total net purchased
    protection of $164.13 billion in notional value. As of
    November 2008, the firm s written and purchased credit
    derivatives had total gross notional amounts of
    $3.78 trillion and $4.03 trillion, respectively, for
    total net purchased protection of $255.24 billion in
    notional value. The decrease in notional amounts from
    November 2008 to December 2009 primarily reflects
    compression efforts across the industry.

163

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table sets forth certain information related to
    the firm s credit derivatives. Fair values in the table
    below exclude the effects of both netting under enforceable
    netting agreements and netting of cash paid pursuant to credit
    support agreements, and therefore are not representative of the
    firm s exposure.

(1)  

Tenor is based on expected duration for
     mortgage-related 
    credit derivatives and on remaining contractual maturity for
    other credit derivatives.

(2)  

Offsetting purchased credit derivatives represent the notional
    amount of purchased credit derivatives to the extent they
    economically hedge written credit derivatives with identical
    underlyings.

(3)  

Comprised of purchased protection in excess of the amount of
    written protection on identical underlyings and purchased
    protection on other underlyings on which the firm has not
    written protection.

(4)  

Credit spread on the underlying, together with the tenor of the
    contract, are indicators of payment/performance risk. For
    example, the firm is least likely to pay or otherwise be
    required to perform where the credit spread on the underlying is
      0-250  
    basis points and the tenor is
      0-12 
    Months.  The likelihood of payment or performance is
    generally greater as the credit spread on the underlying and
    tenor increase.

(5)  

These net liabilities differ from the carrying values related to
    credit derivatives in the firm s consolidated statements of
    financial condition because they exclude the effects of both
    netting under enforceable netting agreements and netting of cash
    collateral paid pursuant to credit support agreements. Including
    the effects of netting receivable balances with payable balances
    for the same counterparty (across written and purchased credit
    derivatives) pursuant to enforceable netting agreements, the
    firm s consolidated statements of financial condition as of
    December 2009 and November 2008 included a net asset
    related to credit derivatives of $39.74 billion and
    $71.78 billion, respectively, and a net liability related
    to credit derivatives of $9.75 billion and
    $33.48 billion, respectively. These net amounts exclude the
    netting of cash collateral paid pursuant to credit support
    agreements.

(6)  

The decrease in this net liability from November 2008 to
    December 2009 primarily reflected tightening credit spreads.

164

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Collateralized
    Transactions   

The firm receives financial instruments as collateral, primarily
    in connection with resale agreements, securities borrowed,
    derivative transactions and customer margin loans. Such
    financial instruments may include obligations of the
    U.S. government, federal agencies, sovereigns and
    corporations, as well as equities and convertibles.

In many cases, the firm is permitted to deliver or repledge
    these financial instruments in connection with entering into
    repurchase agreements, securities lending agreements and other
    secured financings, collateralizing derivative transactions and
    meeting firm or customer settlement requirements. As of
    December 2009 and November 2008, the fair value of
    financial instruments received as collateral by the firm that it
    was permitted to deliver or repledge was $561.77 billion
    and $578.72 billion, respectively, of which the firm
    delivered or repledged $392.89 billion and
    $445.11 billion, respectively.

The firm also pledges assets that it owns to counterparties who
    may or may not have the right to deliver or repledge them.
    Trading assets pledged to counterparties that have the right to
    deliver or repledge are included in  Trading assets, at
    fair value  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition and were $31.49 billion and $26.31 billion
    as of December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.
    Trading assets, pledged in connection with repurchase
    agreements, securities lending agreements and other secured
    financings to counterparties that did not have the right to sell
    or repledge are included in  Trading assets, at fair
    value  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition and were $109.11 billion and $80.85 billion
    as of December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.
    Other assets (primarily real estate and cash) owned and pledged
    in connection with other secured financings to counterparties
    that did not have the right to sell or repledge were
    $7.93 billion and $9.24 billion as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.

In addition to repurchase agreements and securities lending
    agreements, the firm obtains secured funding through the use of
    other arrangements. Other secured financings include
    arrangements that are nonrecourse, that is, only the subsidiary
    that executed the arrangement or a subsidiary guaranteeing the
    arrangement is obligated to repay the financing. Other secured
    financings consist of liabilities related to the firm s
    William Street credit extension program; consolidated VIEs;
    collateralized central bank financings and other transfers of
    financial assets that are accounted for as financings rather
    than sales (primarily pledged bank loans and mortgage whole
    loans); and other structured financing arrangements.

165

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Other secured financings by maturity are set forth in the table
    below:

(1)   

As of December 2009 and
    November 2008, consists of
     U.S. dollar-denominated 
    financings of $6.47 billion and $12.53 billion,
    respectively, with a weighted average interest rate of 3.44% and
    2.98%, respectively, and
     non-U.S. dollar-denominated 
    financings of $6.46 billion and $8.70 billion,
    respectively, with a weighted average interest rate of 1.57% and
    0.95%, respectively, after giving effect to hedging activities.
    The weighted average interest rates as of December 2009 and
    November 2008 excluded financial instruments accounted for
    at fair value under the fair value option.

(2)   

Includes other secured financings
    maturing within one year of the financial statement date and
    other secured financings that are redeemable within one year of
    the financial statement date at the option of the holder.

(3)   

As of December 2009 and
    November 2008, consists of
     U.S. dollar-denominated 
    financings of $7.28 billion and $9.55 billion,
    respectively, with a weighted average interest rate of 1.83% and
    4.62%, respectively, and
     non-U.S. dollar-denominated 
    financings of $3.92 billion and $7.91 billion,
    respectively, with a weighted average interest rate of 2.30% and
    4.39%, respectively, after giving effect to hedging activities.
    The weighted average interest rates as of December 2009 and
    November 2008 excluded financial instruments accounted for
    at fair value under the fair value option.

(4)   

Secured
     long-term 
    financings that are repayable prior to maturity at the option of
    the firm are reflected at their contractual maturity dates.
    Secured
     long-term 
    financings that are redeemable prior to maturity at the option
    of the holder are reflected at the dates such options become
    exercisable.

(5)   

As of December 2009 and
    November 2008, $18.25 billion and $31.54 billion,
    respectively, of these financings were collateralized by trading
    assets and $5.88 billion and $7.14 billion,
    respectively, by other assets (primarily real estate and cash).
    Other secured financings include $10.63 billion and
    $13.74 billion of nonrecourse obligations as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.

(6)   

As of December 2009, other
    secured financings includes $9.51 billion related to
    transfers of financial assets accounted for as financings rather
    than sales. Such financings were collateralized by financial
    assets included in  Trading assets, at fair value  in
    the consolidated statement of financial condition of
    $9.78 billion as of December 2009.

Note 4.    

Securitization
    Activities and Variable Interest Entities  

Securitization
    Activities   

The firm securitizes residential and commercial mortgages,
    corporate bonds and other types of financial assets. The firm
    acts as underwriter of the beneficial interests that are sold to
    investors. The firm derecognizes financial assets transferred in
    securitizations, provided it has relinquished control over such
    assets. Transferred assets are accounted for at fair value prior
    to securitization. Net revenues related to these underwriting
    activities are recognized in connection with the sales of the
    underlying beneficial interests to investors.

166

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm may have continuing involvement with transferred
    assets, including: retaining interests in securitized financial
    assets, primarily in the form of senior or subordinated
    securities; retaining servicing rights; and purchasing senior or
    subordinated securities in connection with secondary
     market-making 
    activities. Retained interests and other interests related to
    the firm s continuing involvement are accounted for at fair
    value and are included in  Trading assets, at fair
    value  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition. See Note 2 for additional information regarding
    fair value measurement.

During the year ended December 2009, the firm securitized
    $48.58 billion of financial assets in which the firm had
    continuing involvement, including $47.89 billion of
    residential mortgages, primarily in connection with government
    agency securitizations, and $691 million of other financial
    assets. During the year ended November 2008, the firm
    securitized $14.46 billion of financial assets, including
    $6.67 billion of residential mortgages, $773 million
    of commercial mortgages, and $7.01 billion of other
    financial assets, primarily in connection with CLOs. During the
    year ended November 2007, the firm securitized
    $81.40 billion of financial assets, including
    $24.95 billion of residential mortgages,
    $19.50 billion of commercial mortgages, and
    $36.95 billion of other financial assets, primarily in
    connection with CDOs and CLOs. During the one month ended
    December 2008, the firm securitized $604 million of
    financial assets, including $557 million of residential
    mortgages and $47 million of other financial assets. Cash
    flows received on retained interests were $507 million,
    $505 million, $705 million and $26 million for
    the years ended December 2009, November 2008 and
    November 2007 and one month ended December 2008,
    respectively.

The following table sets forth certain information related to
    the firm s continuing involvement in securitization
    entities to which the firm sold assets, as well as the total
    outstanding principal amount of transferred assets in which the
    firm has continuing involvement, as of December 2009. The
    outstanding principal amount set forth in the table below is
    presented for the purpose of providing information about the
    size of the securitization entities in which the firm has
    continuing involvement, and is not representative of the
    firm s risk of loss. For retained or purchased interests,
    the firm s risk of loss is limited to the fair value of
    these interests.

(1)  

As of December 2009, fair value of other continuing
    involvement excludes $1.04 billion of purchased interests
    in securitization entities where the firm s involvement was
    related to secondary
     market-making 
    activities. Continuing involvement also excludes derivative
    contracts that are used by securitization entities to manage
    credit, interest rate or foreign exchange risk. See Note 3
    for information on the firm s derivative contracts.

(2)  

Comprised of senior and subordinated interests purchased in
    connection with secondary
     market-making 
    activities in VIEs and QSPEs in which the firm also holds
    retained interests. In addition to these interests, the firm had
    other continuing involvement in the form of derivative
    transactions and guarantees with certain nonconsolidated VIEs
    for which the carrying value was a net liability of
    $87 million as of December 2009. The notional amounts
    of these transactions are included in maximum exposure to loss
    in the nonconsolidated VIE table below.

(3)  

Primarily consists of outstanding principal and retained
    interests related to government agency QSPEs.

(4)  

Primarily consists of CDOs backed by corporate and mortgage
    obligations and CLOs. Outstanding principal amount and fair
    value of retained interests include $16.22 billion and
    $72 million, respectively, as of December 2009 related
    to VIEs which are also included in the nonconsolidated VIE table
    below.

167

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table sets forth the weighted average key economic
    assumptions used in measuring the fair value of the firm s
    retained interests and the sensitivity of this fair value to
    immediate adverse changes of 10% and 20% in those assumptions:

(1)   

Includes $4.03 billion and
    $1.53 billion as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively, held in QSPEs.

(2)   

Due to the nature and current fair
    value of certain of these retained interests, the weighted
    average assumptions for constant prepayment and discount rates
    and the related sensitivity to adverse changes are not
    meaningful as of December 2009. The firm s maximum
    exposure to adverse changes in the value of these interests is
    the firm s carrying value of $93 million.

(3)   

Constant prepayment rate is
    included only for positions for which constant prepayment rate
    is a key assumption in the determination of fair value.

(4)   

The majority of the firm s
     mortgage-backed 
    retained interests are U.S. government
     agency-issued 
    collateralized mortgage obligations, for which there is no
    anticipated credit loss. For the remainder of the firm s
    retained interests, the expected credit loss assumptions are
    reflected within the discount rate.

(5)   

Includes $192 million of
    retained interests related to transfers of securitized assets
    that were accounted for as secured financings rather than sales.

The preceding table does not give effect to the offsetting
    benefit of other financial instruments that are held to mitigate
    risks inherent in these retained interests. Changes in fair
    value based on an adverse variation in assumptions generally
    cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in
    assumptions to the change in fair value is not usually linear.
    In addition, the impact of a change in a particular assumption
    is calculated independently of changes in any other assumption.
    In practice, simultaneous changes in assumptions might magnify
    or counteract the sensitivities disclosed above.

168

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

As of December 2009 and November 2008, the firm held
    mortgage servicing rights with a fair value of $88 million
    and $147 million, respectively. These servicing assets
    represent the firm s right to receive a future stream of
    cash flows, such as servicing fees, in excess of the firm s
    obligation to service residential mortgages. The fair value of
    mortgage servicing rights will fluctuate in response to changes
    in certain economic variables, such as discount rates and loan
    prepayment rates. The firm estimates the fair value of mortgage
    servicing rights by using valuation models that incorporate
    these variables in quantifying anticipated cash flows related to
    servicing activities. Mortgage servicing rights are included in
     Trading assets, at fair value  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition and are classified within
    level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. The following table
    sets forth changes in the firm s mortgage servicing rights,
    as well as servicing fees earned:

(1)   

As of December 2009 and
    November 2008, the fair value was estimated using a
    weighted average discount rate of approximately 16% and 16%,
    respectively, and a weighted average prepayment rate of
    approximately 20% and 27%, respectively.

(2)   

Contractually specified servicing
    fees for the one month ended December 2008 were
    $25 million.

(3)   

Primarily related to the
    acquisition of Litton Loan Servicing LP.

Variable
    Interest Entities   

The firm, in the ordinary course of business, retains interests
    in VIEs in connection with its securitization activities. The
    firm also purchases and sells variable interests in VIEs, which
    primarily issue
     mortgage-backed 
    and other
     asset-backed 
    securities, CDOs and CLOs, in connection with its
     market-making 
    activities and makes investments in and loans to VIEs that hold
    performing and nonperforming debt, equity, real estate,
    power-related and other assets. In addition, the firm utilizes
    VIEs to provide investors with principal-protected notes,
     credit-linked 
    notes and
     asset-repackaged 
    notes designed to meet their objectives. VIEs generally purchase
    assets by issuing debt and equity instruments.

The firm s significant variable interests in VIEs include
    senior and subordinated debt interests in
     mortgage-backed 
    and
     asset-backed 
    securitization vehicles, CDOs and CLOs; loan commitments;
    limited and general partnership interests; preferred and common
    stock; interest rate, foreign currency, equity, commodity and
    credit derivatives; and guarantees.

The firm s exposure to the obligations of VIEs is generally
    limited to its interests in these entities. In the tables set
    forth below, the maximum exposure to loss for purchased and
    retained interests and loans and investments is the carrying
    value of these interests. In certain instances, the firm
    provides guarantees, including derivative guarantees, to VIEs or
    holders of variable interests in VIEs. For these contracts,
    maximum exposure to loss set forth in the tables below is the
    notional amount of such guarantees, which does not represent
    anticipated losses and also has not been reduced by unrealized

169

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

losses already recorded by the firm in connection with these
    guarantees. As a result, the maximum exposure to loss exceeds
    the firm s liabilities related to VIEs.

The following tables set forth total assets in firm-sponsored
    nonconsolidated VIEs in which the firm holds variable interests
    and other nonconsolidated VIEs in which the firm holds
    significant variable interests, and the firm s maximum
    exposure to loss excluding the benefit of offsetting financial
    instruments that are held to mitigate the risks associated with
    these variable interests. For 2009, in accordance with amended
    principles requiring enhanced disclosures, the following table
    also sets forth the total assets and total liabilities included
    in the consolidated statements of financial condition related to
    the firm s interests in these nonconsolidated VIEs. The
    firm has aggregated nonconsolidated VIEs based on principal
    business activity, as reflected in the first column. The nature
    of the firm s variable interests can take different forms,
    as described in the columns under maximum exposure to loss.

170

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

(1)  

Such amounts do not represent the anticipated losses in
    connection with these transactions because they exclude the
    effect of offsetting financial instruments that are held to
    mitigate these risks.

(2)  

These VIEs are generally financed through the issuance of debt
    instruments collateralized by assets held by the VIE.
    Substantially all assets and liabilities held by the firm
    related to these VIEs are included in  Trading assets, at
    fair value  and  Trading liabilities, at fair
    value,  respectively, in the consolidated statement of
    financial condition.

(3)  

The firm obtains interests in these VIEs in connection with
    making investments in real estate, distressed loans and other
    types of debt, mezzanine instruments and equities. These VIEs
    are generally financed through the issuance of debt and equity
    instruments which are either collateralized by or indexed to
    assets held by the VIE. Substantially all assets and liabilities
    held by the firm related to these VIEs are included in
     Trading assets, at fair value  and  Other
    assets,  and  Other liabilities and accrued
    expenses,  respectively, in the consolidated statement of
    financial condition.

(4)  

Assets and liabilities held by the firm related to these VIEs
    are included in  Other assets  and  Other
    liabilities and accrued expenses,  respectively, in the
    consolidated statement of financial condition.

(5)  

Consists of
     out-of-the-money 
    written put options that provide principal protection to clients
    invested in various fund products, with risk to the firm
    mitigated through portfolio rebalancing. Assets related to these
    VIEs are included in  Trading assets, at fair value 
    and liabilities related to these VIEs are included in
     Other secured financings,   Unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, including the current portion of unsecured long-term
    borrowings   or  Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings  in the consolidated statement of financial
    condition. Assets in VIE, carrying value of liabilities and
    maximum exposure to loss exclude $3.97 billion as of
    December 2009, associated with guarantees related to the
    firm s performance under borrowings from the VIE, which are
    recorded as liabilities in the consolidated statement of
    financial condition. Substantially all of the liabilities
    included in the table above relate to additional borrowings from
    the VIE associated with principal protected notes guaranteed by
    the firm.

(6)  

The aggregate amounts include $4.66 billion as of
    December 2009, related to guarantees and derivative
    transactions with VIEs to which the firm transferred assets.

(7)  

Primarily consists of written protection on
     investment-grade, 
     short-term 
    collateral held by VIEs that have issued CDOs.

(8)  

Primarily consists of total return swaps on CDOs and CLOs. The
    firm has generally transferred the risks related to the
    underlying securities through derivatives with
     non-VIEs. 

171

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table sets forth the firm s total assets
    excluding the benefit of offsetting financial instruments that
    are held to mitigate the risks associated with its variable
    interests in consolidated VIEs. The following table excludes
    VIEs in which the firm holds a majority voting interest unless
    the activities of the VIE are primarily related to
    securitization,
     asset-backed 
    financings or single-lessee leasing arrangements. For 2009, in
    accordance with amended principles requiring enhanced
    disclosures, the following table also sets forth the total
    liabilities included in the consolidated statement of financial
    condition related to the firm s consolidated VIEs. The firm
    has aggregated consolidated VIEs based on principal business
    activity, as reflected in the first column.

(1)   

Consolidated VIE assets and
    liabilities are presented after intercompany eliminations and
    include assets financed on a nonrecourse basis. Substantially
    all VIE assets are included in  Trading assets, at fair
    value  and  Other assets  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition.

(2)   

These VIE liabilities are generally
    collateralized by the related VIE assets and included in
     Other secured financings  and  Other liabilities
    and accrued expenses  in the consolidated statement of
    financial condition. These VIE liabilities generally do not
    provide for recourse to the general credit of the firm.

(3)   

These VIE liabilities, which are
    partially collateralized by the related VIE assets, are included
    in  Other secured financings  in the consolidated
    statement of financial condition.

(4)   

These VIE liabilities are primarily
    included in  Securities sold under agreements to
    repurchase, at fair value  and  Other secured
    financings  in the consolidated statement of financial
    condition and generally do not provide for recourse to the
    general credit of the firm.

(5)   

These VIE liabilities are primarily
    included in  Trading liabilities, at fair value  in
    the consolidated statement of financial condition.

(6)   

These VIE liabilities are included
    in  Unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, including the current portion of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings  in the consolidated statement of financial
    condition.

The firm did not have
     off-balance-sheet 
    commitments to purchase or finance any CDOs held by structured
    investment vehicles as of December 2009 or
    November 2008.

172

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 5.    

Deposits  

The following table sets forth deposits as of December 2009
    and November 2008:

(1)  

Substantially all U.S. deposits were interest-bearing and
    were held at GS Bank USA.

(2)  

Substantially all
     non-U.S. deposits 
    were interest-bearing and were held at Goldman Sachs Bank
    (Europe) PLC (GS Bank Europe).

Included in the above table are time deposits of
    $9.30 billion and $8.49 billion as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively. The
    following table sets forth the maturities of time deposits as of
    December 2009:

173

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 6.    

Short-Term 
    Borrowings  

As of December 2009 and November 2008,
     short-term 
    borrowings were $50.45 billion and $73.89 billion,
    respectively, comprised of $12.93 billion and
    $21.23 billion, respectively, included in  Other
    secured financings  in the consolidated statements of
    financial condition and $37.52 billion and
    $52.66 billion, respectively, of unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings. See Note 3 for information on other secured
    financings.

Unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings include the portion of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings maturing within one year of the financial statement
    date and unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the financial
    statement date at the option of the holder. The firm accounts
    for promissory notes, commercial paper and certain hybrid
    financial instruments at fair value under the fair value option.
     Short-term 
    borrowings that are not recorded at fair value are recorded
    based on the amount of cash received plus accrued interest, and
    such amounts approximate fair value due to the
     short-term 
    nature of the obligations.

Unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings are set forth below:

174

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 7.    

Long-Term 
    Borrowings  

As of December 2009 and November 2008,
     long-term 
    borrowings were $196.29 billion and $185.68 billion,
    respectively, comprised of $11.20 billion and
    $17.46 billion, respectively, included in  Other
    secured financings  in the consolidated statements of
    financial condition and $185.09 billion and
    $168.22 billion, respectively, of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings. See Note 3 for information regarding other
    secured financings.

The firm s unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings extend through 2043 and consist principally of senior
    borrowings.

Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings are set forth below:

Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings by maturity date are set forth below:

(1)   

Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings maturing within one year of the financial statement
    date and unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the financial
    statement date at the option of the holder are included as
    unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings in the consolidated statements of financial condition.

(2)   

Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are repayable prior to maturity at the option of
    the firm are reflected at their contractual maturity dates.
    Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are redeemable prior to maturity at the option
    of the holder are reflected at the dates such options become
    exercisable.

175

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm enters into derivative contracts to effectively convert
    a substantial portion of its unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings which are not accounted for at fair value into
    floating rate obligations. Accordingly, excluding the cumulative
    impact of changes in the firm s credit spreads, the
    carrying value of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings approximated fair value as of December 2009 and
    November 2008. For unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings for which the firm did not elect the fair value
    option, the cumulative impact due to the widening of the
    firm s own credit spreads would be a reduction in the
    carrying value of total unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings of less than 1% and approximately 9% as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.

The effective weighted average interest rates for unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings are set forth below:

(1)   

Includes fixed rate obligations
    that have been converted into floating rate obligations through
    derivative contracts.

(2)   

The weighted average interest rates
    as of December 2009 and November 2008 excluded
    financial instruments accounted for at fair value under the fair
    value option.

Subordinated
    Borrowings   

As of December 2009 and November 2008, unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings were comprised of subordinated borrowings with
    outstanding principal amounts of $19.16 billion and
    $19.26 billion, respectively, as set forth below, of which
    $18.87 billion and $18.79 billion, respectively, has
    been issued by Group Inc.

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to Trusts in Connection with
     Fixed-to-Floating 
    and Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital
    Securities.   In 2007, Group Inc. issued a
    total of $2.25 billion of remarketable junior subordinated
    debt to Goldman Sachs Capital II and Goldman Sachs Capital III
    (APEX Trusts), Delaware statutory trusts that, in turn, issued
    $2.25 billion of guaranteed perpetual Normal Automatic
    Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities (APEX) to third parties
    and a de minimis amount of common securities to Group Inc.
    Group Inc. also entered into contracts with the APEX Trusts
    to sell $2.25 billion of perpetual
     non-cumulative 
    preferred stock to be issued by Group Inc. (the stock
    purchase contracts). The APEX Trusts are wholly owned finance
    subsidiaries of the firm for regulatory and legal purposes but
    are not consolidated for accounting purposes.

The firm pays interest
     semi-annually 
    on $1.75 billion of junior subordinated debt issued to
    Goldman Sachs Capital II at a fixed annual rate of 5.59% and the
    debt matures on June 1, 2043. The firm pays interest
    quarterly on $500 million of junior subordinated debt
    issued to Goldman Sachs Capital III at a rate per annum equal to
     three-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.57% and the debt matures on
    September 1, 2043. In addition, the firm makes
    contract payments at a rate of 0.20% per annum on the stock
    purchase contracts held by the APEX Trusts. The firm has the
    right to defer payments on

176

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

the junior subordinated debt and the stock purchase contracts,
    subject to limitations, and therefore cause payment on the APEX
    to be deferred. During any such extension period, the firm will
    not be permitted to, among other things, pay dividends on or
    make certain repurchases of its common or preferred stock. The
    junior subordinated debt is junior in right of payment to all of
    Group Inc. s senior indebtedness and all of
    Group Inc. s other subordinated borrowings.

In connection with the APEX issuance, the firm covenanted in
    favor of certain of its debtholders, who are initially the
    holders of Group Inc. s 6.345% Junior Subordinated
    Debentures due February 15, 2034, that, subject to
    certain exceptions, the firm would not redeem or purchase
    (i) Group Inc. s junior subordinated debt issued
    to the APEX Trusts prior to the applicable stock purchase date
    or (ii) APEX or shares of Group Inc. s
    Series E or Series F Preferred Stock prior to the date
    that is ten years after the applicable stock purchase date,
    unless the applicable redemption or purchase price does not
    exceed a maximum amount determined by reference to the aggregate
    amount of net cash proceeds that the firm has received from the
    sale of qualifying equity securities during the
     180-day 
    period preceding the redemption or purchase.

The firm accounted for the stock purchase contracts as equity
    instruments and, accordingly, recorded the cost of the stock
    purchase contracts as a reduction to additional
     paid-in 
    capital. See Note 9 for information on the preferred stock
    that Group Inc. will issue in connection with the stock
    purchase contracts.

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to a Trust in Connection with
    Trust Preferred Securities.   Group Inc.
    issued $2.84 billion of junior subordinated debentures in
    2004 to Goldman Sachs Capital I (Trust), a Delaware statutory
    trust that, in turn, issued $2.75 billion of guaranteed
    preferred beneficial interests to third parties and
    $85 million of common beneficial interests to
    Group Inc. and invested the proceeds from the sale in
    junior subordinated debentures issued by Group Inc. The
    Trust is a wholly owned finance subsidiary of the firm for
    regulatory and legal purposes but is not consolidated for
    accounting purposes.

The firm pays interest
     semi-annually 
    on these debentures at an annual rate of 6.345% and the
    debentures mature on February 15, 2034. The coupon
    rate and the payment dates applicable to the beneficial
    interests are the same as the interest rate and payment dates
    applicable to the debentures. The firm has the right, from time
    to time, to defer payment of interest on the debentures, and,
    therefore, cause payment on the Trust s preferred
    beneficial interests to be deferred, in each case up to ten
    consecutive
     semi-annual 
    periods. During any such extension period, the firm will not be
    permitted to, among other things, pay dividends on or make
    certain repurchases of its common stock. The Trust is not
    permitted to pay any distributions on the common beneficial
    interests held by Group Inc. unless all dividends payable
    on the preferred beneficial interests have been paid in full.
    These debentures are junior in right of payment to all of
    Group Inc. s senior indebtedness and all of
    Group Inc. s subordinated borrowings, other than the
    junior subordinated debt issued in connection with the APEX.

Subordinated Debt.   As of December 2009,
    the firm had $14.07 billion of other subordinated debt
    outstanding, of which $13.78 billion has been issued by
    Group Inc., with maturities ranging from 2012 to 2038. The
    effective weighted average interest rate on this debt was 1.51%,
    after giving effect to derivative contracts used to convert
    fixed rate obligations into floating rate obligations. As of
    November 2008, the firm had $14.17 billion of other
    subordinated debt outstanding, of which $13.70 billion has
    been issued by Group Inc., with maturities ranging from
    fiscal 2009 to 2038. The effective weighted average interest
    rate on this debt was 1.99%, after giving effect to derivative
    contracts used to convert fixed rate obligations into floating
    rate obligations. This debt is junior in right of payment to all
    of the firm s senior indebtedness.

177

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 8.    

Commitments,
    Contingencies and Guarantees  

Commitments   

The following table summarizes the firm s commitments as of
    December 2009 and November 2008:

(1)  

Commitments to extend credit are presented net of amounts
    syndicated to third parties.

(2)  

Included within
     non-investment-grade 
    commitments as of December 2009 and November 2008 were
    $1.20 billion and $2.07 billion, respectively, related
    to leveraged lending capital market transactions;
    $40 million and $164 million, respectively, related to
    commercial real estate transactions; and $6.91 billion and
    $7.09 billion, respectively, arising from other unfunded
    credit facilities. Including funded loans, the total notional
    amount of the firm s leveraged lending capital market
    transactions was $4.45 billion and $7.97 billion as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.

(3)  

Consists of commitments under letters of credit issued by
    various banks which the firm provides to counterparties in lieu
    of securities or cash to satisfy various collateral and margin
    deposit requirements.

(4)  

Consists of the firm s commitments to invest in private
    equity, real estate and other assets directly and through funds
    that the firm raises and manages in connection with its merchant
    banking and other investing activities, consisting of
    $2.46 billion and $3.15 billion as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively, related
    to real estate private investments and $10.78 billion and
    $11.12 billion as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively, related to corporate and other
    private investments. Such commitments include
    $11.38 billion and $12.25 billion as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively, of
    commitments to invest in funds managed by the firm, which will
    be funded at market value on the date of investment.

(5)  

Includes commitments of $104 million and $388 million
    as of December 2009 and November 2008, respectively,
    related to the firm s new headquarters in New York City.

178

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Commitments to Extend Credit.   The firm s
    commitments to extend credit are agreements to lend to
    counterparties that have fixed termination dates and are
    contingent on the satisfaction of all conditions to borrowing
    set forth in the contract. Since these commitments may expire
    unused or be reduced or cancelled at the counterparty s
    request, the total commitment amount does not necessarily
    reflect the actual future cash flow requirements. The firm
    accounts for these commitments at fair value. To the extent that
    the firm recognizes losses on these commitments, such losses are
    recorded within the firm s Trading and Principal
    Investments segment net of any related underwriting fees.

Commercial lending commitments.   The
    firm s commercial lending commitments are generally
    extended in connection with contingent acquisition financing and
    other types of corporate lending as well as commercial real
    estate financing. The total commitment amount does not
    necessarily reflect the actual future cash flow requirements, as
    the firm may syndicate all or substantial portions of these
    commitments in the future, the commitments may expire unused, or
    the commitments may be cancelled or reduced at the request of
    the counterparty. In addition, commitments that are extended for
    contingent acquisition financing are often intended to be
     short-term 
    in nature, as borrowers often seek to replace them with other
    funding sources.

William Street credit extension
    program.   Substantially all of the commitments
    provided under the William Street credit extension program are
    to
     investment-grade 
    corporate borrowers. Commitments under the program are
    principally extended by William Street Commitment Corporation
    (Commitment Corp.), a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of
    GS Bank USA, GS Bank USA and other subsidiaries of
    GS Bank USA. The commitments extended by Commitment Corp.
    are supported, in part, by funding raised by William Street
    Funding Corporation (Funding Corp.), another consolidated wholly
    owned subsidiary of GS Bank USA. The assets and liabilities
    of Commitment Corp. and Funding Corp. are legally separated from
    other assets and liabilities of the firm. The assets of
    Commitment Corp. and of Funding Corp. will not be available to
    their respective shareholders until the claims of their
    respective creditors have been paid. In addition, no affiliate
    of either Commitment Corp. or Funding Corp., except in limited
    cases as expressly agreed in writing, is responsible for any
    obligation of either entity. With respect to most of the William
    Street commitments, Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG)
    provides the firm with credit loss protection that is generally
    limited to 95% of the first loss the firm realizes on approved
    loan commitments, up to a maximum of approximately
    $950 million. In addition, subject to the satisfaction of
    certain conditions, upon the firm s request, SMFG will
    provide protection for 70% of additional losses on such
    commitments, up to a maximum of $1.13 billion, of which
    $375 million of protection had been provided as of both
    December 2009 and November 2008. The firm also uses
    other financial instruments to mitigate credit risks related to
    certain William Street commitments not covered by SMFG.

Warehouse financing.   The firm provides
    financing for the warehousing of financial assets. These
    arrangements are secured by the warehoused assets, primarily
    consisting of commercial mortgages as of December 2009 and
    November 2008.

179

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Leases.   The firm has contractual obligations
    under
     long-term 
    noncancelable lease agreements, principally for office space,
    expiring on various dates through 2069. Certain agreements are
    subject to periodic escalation provisions for increases in real
    estate taxes and other charges. Future minimum rental payments,
    net of minimum sublease rentals are set forth below:

Rent charged to operating expense is set forth below:

Contingencies   

The firm is involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and
    arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising in connection
    with the conduct of its businesses. Management believes, based
    on currently available information, that the results of such
    proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse
    effect on the firm s financial condition, but may be
    material to the firm s operating results for any particular
    period, depending, in part, upon the operating results for such
    period. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome
    of the firm s litigation and regulatory matters,
    particularly in cases or proceedings in which substantial or
    indeterminate damages or fines are sought, the firm cannot
    estimate losses or ranges of losses for cases or proceedings
    where there is only a reasonable possibility that a loss may be
    incurred.

In connection with its insurance business, the firm is
    contingently liable to provide guaranteed minimum death and
    income benefits to certain contract holders and has established
    a reserve related to $6.35 billion and $6.13 billion
    of contract holder account balances as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively, for such benefits. The
    weighted average attained age of these contract holders was
    68 years as of both December 2009 and
    November 2008. The net amount at risk, representing
    guaranteed minimum death and income benefits in excess of
    contract holder account balances, was $1.96 billion and
    $2.96 billion as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively. See Note 12 for more
    information on the firm s insurance liabilities.

Guarantees   

The firm enters into various derivative contracts that meet the
    definition of a guarantee under ASC 460. Disclosures about
    derivative contracts are not required if such contracts may be
    cash settled and the firm has no basis to conclude it is
    probable that the counterparties held, at inception, the
    underlying instruments related to the derivative contracts. The
    firm has concluded that these conditions have been met for
    certain large, internationally active commercial and investment
    bank counterparties and certain other counterparties.
    Accordingly, the firm has not included such contracts in the
    tables below.

180

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm, in its capacity as an agency lender, indemnifies most
    of its securities lending customers against losses incurred in
    the event that borrowers do not return securities and the
    collateral held is insufficient to cover the market value of the
    securities borrowed.

In the ordinary course of business, the firm provides other
    financial guarantees of the obligations of third parties
    (e.g., performance bonds, standby letters of credit and
    other guarantees to enable clients to complete transactions and
    merchant banking fund-related guarantees). These guarantees
    represent obligations to make payments to beneficiaries if the
    guaranteed party fails to fulfill its obligation under a
    contractual arrangement with that beneficiary.

The following table sets forth certain information about the
    firm s derivative contracts that meet the definition of a
    guarantee and certain other guarantees as of December 2009.
    Derivative contracts set forth below include written equity and
    commodity put options, written currency contracts and interest
    rate caps, floors and swaptions. See Note 3 for information
    regarding credit derivative contracts that meet the definition
    of a guarantee, which are not included below.

(1)  

Such amounts do not represent the anticipated losses in
    connection with these contracts.

(2)  

Because derivative contracts are accounted for at fair value,
    carrying value is considered the best indication of
    payment/performance risk for individual contracts. However, the
    carrying value excludes the effect of a legal right of setoff
    that may exist under an enforceable netting agreement and the
    effect of netting of cash paid pursuant to credit support
    agreements. These derivative contracts are risk managed together
    with derivative contracts that do not meet the definition of a
    guarantee under ASC 460 and, therefore, these amounts do not
    reflect the firm s overall risk related to its derivative
    activities. As of November 2008, the carrying value of the
    net liability related to derivative guarantees was
    $17.46 billion.

(3)  

Collateral held by the lenders in connection with securities
    lending indemnifications was $28.07 billion and
    $19.95 billion as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively. Because the contractual nature
    of these arrangements requires the firm to obtain collateral
    with a market value that exceeds the value of the securities on
    loan from the borrower, there is minimal performance risk
    associated with these guarantees.

(4)  

As of November 2008, the carrying value of the net
    liability related to other financial guarantees was
    $235 million.

The firm has established trusts, including Goldman Sachs Capital
    I, II and III, and other entities for the limited purpose of
    issuing securities to third parties, lending the proceeds to the
    firm and entering into contractual arrangements with the firm
    and third parties related to this purpose. See Note 7 for
    information regarding the transactions involving Goldman Sachs
    Capital I, II and III. The firm effectively provides for the
    full and unconditional guarantee of the securities issued by
    these entities, which are not consolidated for accounting
    purposes. Timely payment by the firm of amounts due to these
    entities under the borrowing, preferred stock and related
    contractual arrangements will be sufficient to cover payments
    due on the securities issued by these entities. Management
    believes that it is unlikely that any circumstances will occur,
    such as nonperformance on the part of paying agents or other
    service providers, that would make it necessary for the firm to
    make payments related to these entities other than those
    required under the terms of the borrowing, preferred stock and
    related contractual arrangements and in connection with certain
    expenses incurred by these entities. Group Inc. also fully
    and unconditionally guarantees the securities issued by GS
    Finance Corp., a wholly owned finance subsidiary of the firm,
    which is consolidated for accounting purposes.

181

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In the ordinary course of business, the firm indemnifies and
    guarantees certain service providers, such as clearing and
    custody agents, trustees and administrators, against specified
    potential losses in connection with their acting as an agent of,
    or providing services to, the firm or its affiliates. The firm
    also indemnifies some clients against potential losses incurred
    in the event specified
     third-party 
    service providers, including
     sub-custodians 
    and
     third-party 
    brokers, improperly execute transactions. In addition, the firm
    is a member of payment, clearing and settlement networks as well
    as securities exchanges around the world that may require the
    firm to meet the obligations of such networks and exchanges in
    the event of member defaults. In connection with its prime
    brokerage and clearing businesses, the firm agrees to clear and
    settle on behalf of its clients the transactions entered into by
    them with other brokerage firms. The firm s obligations in
    respect of such transactions are secured by the assets in the
    client s account as well as any proceeds received from the
    transactions cleared and settled by the firm on behalf of the
    client. In connection with joint venture investments, the firm
    may issue loan guarantees under which it may be liable in the
    event of fraud, misappropriation, environmental liabilities and
    certain other matters involving the borrower. The firm is unable
    to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under these
    guarantees and indemnifications. However, management believes
    that it is unlikely the firm will have to make any material
    payments under these arrangements, and no liabilities related to
    these guarantees and indemnifications have been recognized in
    the consolidated statements of financial condition as of
    December 2009 and November 2008.

The firm provides representations and warranties to
    counterparties in connection with a variety of commercial
    transactions and occasionally indemnifies them against potential
    losses caused by the breach of those representations and
    warranties. The firm may also provide indemnifications
    protecting against changes in or adverse application of certain
    U.S. tax laws in connection with ordinary-course
    transactions such as securities issuances, borrowings or
    derivatives. In addition, the firm may provide indemnifications
    to some counterparties to protect them in the event additional
    taxes are owed or payments are withheld, due either to a change
    in or an adverse application of certain
     non-U.S. tax 
    laws. These indemnifications generally are standard contractual
    terms and are entered into in the ordinary course of business.
    Generally, there are no stated or notional amounts included in
    these indemnifications, and the contingencies triggering the
    obligation to indemnify are not expected to occur. The firm is
    unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under these
    guarantees and indemnifications. However, management believes
    that it is unlikely the firm will have to make any material
    payments under these arrangements, and no liabilities related to
    these arrangements have been recognized in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition as of December 2009 and
    November 2008.

Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. (GS Co.), GS Bank USA
    and GS Bank Europe, subject to certain exceptions. In
    November 2008, the firm contributed subsidiaries into GS
    Bank USA, and Group Inc. agreed to guarantee certain
    losses, including
     credit-related 
    losses, relating to assets held by the contributed entities. In
    connection with this guarantee, Group Inc. also agreed to
    pledge to GS Bank USA certain collateral, including interests in
    subsidiaries and other illiquid assets. In addition,
    Group Inc. guarantees many of the obligations of its other
    consolidated subsidiaries on a
     transaction-by-transaction 
    basis, as negotiated with counterparties. Group Inc. is
    unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under its
    subsidiary guarantees; however, because these guaranteed
    obligations are also obligations of consolidated subsidiaries
    included in the table above, Group Inc. s liabilities
    as guarantor are not separately disclosed.

182

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 9.    

Shareholders 
    Equity  

Common and
    Preferred Equity   

During 2009, common shares outstanding increased by 72.6 million
    shares, which included 46.7 million common shares issued
    through a public offering at $123.00 per share for total
    proceeds of $5.75 billion during the second quarter of 2009.

In June 2009, Group Inc. repurchased from the
    U.S. Department of the Treasury (U.S. Treasury) the
    10.0 million shares of the Company s Fixed Rate
    Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock, Series H
    (Series H Preferred Stock), that were issued to the
    U.S. Treasury pursuant to the U.S. Treasury s
    TARP Capital Purchase Program. The repurchase resulted in a
     one-time 
    preferred dividend of $426 million, which is included in
    the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended
    December 2009. This
     one-time 
    preferred dividend represented the difference between the
    carrying value and the redemption value of the Series H
    Preferred Stock. In connection with the issuance of the
    Series H Preferred Stock in October 2008, the firm
    issued a
     10-year 
    warrant to the U.S. Treasury to purchase up to
    12.2 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of
    $122.90 per share. The firm repurchased this warrant in full in
    July 2009 for $1.1 billion. This amount was recorded
    as a reduction to additional
     paid-in 
    capital. The firm s cumulative payments to the
    U.S. Treasury related to the U.S. Treasury s TARP
    Capital Purchase Program totaled $11.42 billion, including
    the return of the U.S. Treasury s $10.0 billion
    investment (inclusive of the $426 million described above),
    $318 million in preferred dividends and $1.1 billion
    related to the warrant repurchase.

Dividends declared per common share were $1.05 in 2009, $1.40 in
    2008 and $1.40 in 2007. On January 19, 2010, the Board
    declared a dividend of $0.35 per common share to be paid on
    March 30, 2010 to common shareholders of record on
    March 2, 2010. On December 15, 2008, the
    Board declared a dividend of $0.4666666 per common share to be
    paid on March 26, 2009 to common shareholders of
    record on February 24, 2009. The dividend of
    $0.4666666 per common share is reflective of a four-month period
    (December 2008 through March 2009), due to the change
    in the firm s fiscal year-end.

During 2009 and 2008, the firm repurchased 19,578 and
    10.5 million shares of its common stock at an average cost
    per share of $80.83 and $193.18, for a total cost of
    $2 million and $2.04 billion, respectively. Shares
    repurchased during 2009 primarily related to repurchases made by
    GS Co. to facilitate customer transactions in the ordinary
    course of business. In addition, to satisfy minimum statutory
    employee tax withholding requirements related to the delivery of
    common stock underlying RSUs, the firm cancelled
    11.2 million and 6.7 million of RSUs with a total
    value of $863 million and $1.31 billion in 2009 and
    2008, respectively.

The firm s share repurchase program is intended to help
    maintain the appropriate level of common equity and to
    substantially offset increases in share count over time
    resulting from employee
     share-based 
    compensation. The repurchase program is effected primarily
    through regular
     open-market 
    purchases, the amounts and timing of which are determined
    primarily by the firm s current and projected capital
    positions (i.e., comparisons of the firm s desired
    level of capital to its actual level of capital) but which may
    also be influenced by general market conditions and the
    prevailing price and trading volumes of the firm s common
    stock. Any repurchase of the firm s common stock requires
    approval by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
    (Federal Reserve Board).

183

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

As of December 2009, the firm had 174,000 shares of
    perpetual preferred stock issued and outstanding as set forth in
    the following table:

Each share of
     non-cumulative 
    preferred stock issued and outstanding has a par value of $0.01,
    has a liquidation preference of $25,000, is represented by 1,000
    depositary shares and is redeemable at the firm s option,
    subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board, at a
    redemption price equal to $25,000 plus declared and unpaid
    dividends.

Each share of 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock,
    Series G (Series G Preferred Stock) issued and
    outstanding has a par value of $0.01, has a liquidation
    preference of $100,000 and is redeemable at the firm s
    option, subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board, at
    a redemption price equal to $110,000 plus accrued and unpaid
    dividends. In connection with the issuance of the Series G
    Preferred Stock, the firm issued a five-year warrant to purchase
    up to 43.5 million shares of common stock at an exercise
    price of $115.00 per share. The warrant is exercisable at any
    time until October 1, 2013 and the number of shares of
    common stock underlying the warrant and the exercise price are
    subject to adjustment for certain dilutive events.

All series of preferred stock are pari passu and have a
    preference over the firm s common stock upon liquidation.
    Dividends on each series of preferred stock, if declared, are
    payable quarterly in arrears. The firm s ability to declare
    or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire,
    its common stock is subject to certain restrictions in the event
    that the firm fails to pay or set aside full dividends on the
    preferred stock for the latest completed dividend period.

In 2007, the Board authorized 17,500.1 shares of perpetual
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series E (Series E Preferred Stock),
    and 5,000.1 shares of perpetual
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series F (Series F Preferred Stock),
    in connection with the APEX issuance. See Note 7 for
    further information on the APEX issuance. Under the stock
    purchase contracts, Group Inc. will issue on the relevant
    stock purchase dates (on or before June 1, 2013 and
    September 1, 2013 for Series E and Series F
    Preferred Stock, respectively) one share of Series E and
    Series F Preferred Stock to Goldman Sachs Capital II and
    III, respectively, for each $100,000 principal amount of
    subordinated debt held by these trusts. When issued, each share
    of Series E and Series F Preferred Stock will have a
    par value of $0.01 and a liquidation preference of $100,000 per
    share. Dividends on Series E Preferred Stock, if declared,
    will be payable
     semi-annually 
    at a fixed annual rate of 5.79% if the stock is issued prior to
    June 1, 2012 and quarterly thereafter, at a rate per
    annum equal to the greater of
     (i) three-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.77% and (ii) 4.00%. Dividends on Series F
    Preferred Stock, if declared, will be payable quarterly at a
    rate per annum equal to
     three-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.77% if the stock is issued prior to
    September 1, 2012 and quarterly thereafter, at a rate
    per annum equal to the greater of
     (i) three-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.77% and (ii) 4.00%. The preferred stock may be
    redeemed at the option of the firm on the stock purchase dates
    or any day thereafter, subject to regulatory approval and
    certain covenant restrictions governing the firm s ability
    to redeem or purchase the preferred stock without issuing common
    stock or other instruments with
     equity-like 
    characteristics.

184

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Preferred dividends declared are set forth below:

(1)   

Excludes the
     one-time 
    preferred dividend of $426 million related to the
    repurchase of the TARP Series H Preferred Stock in the
    second quarter of 2009, as well as $44 million of accrued
    dividends paid upon repurchase of the Series H Preferred
    Stock.

On January 19, 2010, the Board declared dividends of
    $239.58, $387.50, $255.56 and $255.56 per share of Series A
    Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock, Series C
    Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock, respectively,
    to be paid on February 10, 2010 to preferred
    shareholders of record on January 26, 2010. In
    addition, the Board declared a dividend of $2,500 per share of
    Series G Preferred Stock to be paid on
    February 10, 2010 to preferred shareholders of record
    on January 26, 2010.

Accumulated
    Other Comprehensive Income   

The following table sets forth the firm s accumulated other
    comprehensive income/(loss) by type:

(1)   

Consists of net unrealized
    gains/(losses) of $84 million and $(55) million on
     available-for-sale 
    securities held by the firm s insurance subsidiaries as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively, and net
    unrealized gains of $3 million and $8 million on
     available-for-sale 
    securities held by investees accounted for under the equity
    method as of December 2009 and November 2008,
    respectively.

185

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 10.    

Earnings
    Per Common Share  

The computations of basic and diluted earnings per common share
    are set forth below:

(1)   

The diluted EPS computations do not
    include the antidilutive effect of RSUs, stock options and
    warrants as follows:

(2)   

In the first quarter of fiscal
    2009, the firm adopted amended accounting principles which
    require that unvested
     share-based 
    payment awards that have
     non-forfeitable 
    rights to dividends or dividend equivalents be treated as a
    separate class of securities in calculating earnings per common
    share. The impact of applying these amended principles for the
    year ended December 2009 and one month ended
    December 2008 was a reduction in basic earnings per common
    share of $0.06 and an increase in basic and diluted loss per
    common share of $0.03, respectively. There was no impact on
    diluted earnings per common share for the year ended
    December 2009. Prior periods have not been restated due to
    immateriality.

186

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 11.    

Goodwill
    and Identifiable Intangible Assets  

Goodwill   

The following table sets forth the carrying value of the
    firm s goodwill by operating segment, which is included in
     Other assets  in the consolidated statements of
    financial condition:

(1)   

Primarily related to SLK LLC (SLK).

(2)   

Primarily related to The Ayco
    Company, L.P. (Ayco).

187

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Identifiable
    Intangible Assets   

The following table sets forth the gross carrying amount,
    accumulated amortization and net carrying amount of the
    firm s identifiable intangible assets:

(1)   

Primarily includes the firm s
    clearance and execution and NASDAQ customer lists related to SLK
    and financial counseling customer lists related to Ayco.

(2)   

Primarily includes VOBA related to
    the firm s insurance businesses.

(3)   

Primarily includes
    marketing-related assets and other contractual rights.

188

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Substantially all of the firm s identifiable intangible
    assets are considered to have finite lives and are amortized
    over their estimated lives. The weighted average remaining life
    of the firm s identifiable intangible assets is
    approximately 11 years.  Depreciation and
    amortization  in the consolidated statements of earnings
    includes amortization related to identifiable intangible assets
    of $96 million, $240 million and $39 million for
    the years ended December 2009 and November 2008 and
    one month ended December 2008, respectively.

The estimated future amortization for existing identifiable
    intangible assets through 2014 is set forth below:

Note 12.    

Other
    Assets and Other Liabilities  

Other
    Assets   

Other assets are generally less liquid,
     non-financial 
    assets. The following table sets forth the firm s other
    assets by type:

(1)   

Net of accumulated depreciation and
    amortization of $7.28 billion and $6.55 billion as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.

(2)   

See Note 11 for further
    information regarding the firm s goodwill and identifiable
    intangible assets.

(3)   

Excludes investments of
    $2.95 billion and $3.45 billion accounted for at fair
    value under the fair value option as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively, which are included in
     Trading assets, at fair value  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition.

189

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Other
    Liabilities   

The following table sets forth the firm s other liabilities
    and accrued expenses by type:

(1)   

Insurance-related liabilities are
    set forth in the table below:

Separate account liabilities are supported by separate account
    assets, representing segregated contract holder funds under
    variable annuity and life insurance contracts. Separate account
    assets are included in  Cash and securities segregated for
    regulatory and other purposes  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition.

Liabilities for future benefits and unpaid claims include
    liabilities arising from reinsurance provided by the firm to
    other insurers. The firm had a receivable of $1.29 billion
    and $1.30 billion as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively, related to such reinsurance
    contracts, which is reported in  Receivables from customers
    and counterparties  in the consolidated statements of
    financial condition. In addition, the firm has ceded risks to
    reinsurers related to certain of its liabilities for future
    benefits and unpaid claims and had a receivable of
    $870 million and $1.20 billion as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively, related
    to such reinsurance contracts, which is reported in
     Receivables from customers and counterparties  in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition. Contracts to
    cede risks to reinsurers do not relieve the firm from its
    obligations to contract holders. Liabilities for future benefits
    and unpaid claims include $1.84 billion and
    $978 million carried at fair value under the fair value
    option as of December 2009 and November 2008,
    respectively.

Reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits
    represent a liability for the expected value of guaranteed
    benefits in excess of projected annuity account balances. These
    reserves are based on total payments expected to be made less
    total fees expected to be assessed over the life of the contract.

190

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 13.    

Employee
    Benefit Plans  

The firm sponsors various pension plans and certain other
    postretirement benefit plans, primarily healthcare and life
    insurance. The firm also provides certain benefits to former or
    inactive employees prior to retirement.

Defined
    Benefit Pension Plans and Postretirement Plans   

Employees of certain
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    participate in various defined benefit pension plans. These
    plans generally provide benefits based on years of credited
    service and a percentage of the employee s eligible
    compensation. The firm maintains a defined benefit pension plan
    for most U.K. employees. As of April 2008, the U.K. defined
    benefit plan was closed to new participants, but will continue
    to accrue benefits for existing participants.

The firm also maintains a defined benefit pension plan for
    substantially all U.S. employees hired prior to
    November 1, 2003. As of November 2004, this plan
    was closed to new participants and frozen such that existing
    participants would not accrue any additional benefits. In
    addition, the firm maintains unfunded postretirement benefit
    plans that provide medical and life insurance for eligible
    retirees and their dependents covered under these programs.

On November 30, 2007, the firm adopted amended
    principles related to employers  accounting for defined
    benefit pension and other postretirement plans which require an
    entity to recognize in its statement of financial condition the
    funded status of its defined benefit pension and postretirement
    plans, measured as the difference between the fair value of the
    plan assets and the benefit obligation. Upon adoption, these
    amended accounting principles required an entity to recognize
    previously unrecognized actuarial gains and losses, prior
    service costs, and transition obligations and assets within
     Accumulated other comprehensive income/(loss)  in the
    consolidated statements of changes in shareholders  equity,
    and to derecognize additional minimum pension liabilities.

As a result of adopting these amended accounting principles, the
    firm recorded in 2007 increases of $59 million and
    $253 million to  Other assets  and  Other
    liabilities and accrued expenses,  respectively, and a
    $194 million loss, net of taxes, within  Accumulated
    other comprehensive income/(loss). 

191

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table provides a summary of the changes in the
    plans  benefit obligations and the fair value of plan
    assets for the years ended December 2009 and
    November 2008, as well as a statement of the funded status
    of the plans as of December 2009 and November 2008:

192

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit
    pension plans was $1.31 billion and $769 million as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.

For plans in which the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded
    plan assets, the aggregate projected benefit obligation and
    accumulated benefit obligation was $1.39 billion and
    $1.29 billion, respectively, as of December 2009, and
    $426 million and $413 million, respectively, as of
    November 2008. The fair value of plan assets for each of
    these plans was $1.11 billion and $317 million as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.

The components of pension expense/(income) and postretirement
    expense are set forth below:

193

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The weighted average assumptions used to develop the actuarial
    present value of the projected benefit obligation and net
    periodic pension cost are set forth below. These assumptions
    represent a weighted average of the assumptions used for the
    U.S. and
     non-U.S. plans 
    and are based on the economic environment of each applicable
    country.

Generally, the firm determined the discount rates for its
    defined benefit plans by referencing indices for
     long-term, 
     high-quality 
    bonds and ensuring that the discount rate does not exceed the
    yield reported for those indices after adjustment for the
    duration of the plans  liabilities.

The firm s approach in determining the
     long-term 
    rate of return for plan assets is based upon historical
    financial market relationships that have existed over time with
    the presumption that this trend will generally remain constant
    in the future.

194

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

For measurement purposes, an annual growth rate in the per
    capita cost of covered healthcare benefits of 8.51% was assumed
    for the year ending December 2010. The rate was assumed to
    decrease ratably to 5.00% for the year ending December 2017
    and remain at that level thereafter.

The assumed cost of healthcare has an effect on the amounts
    reported for the firm s postretirement plans. A 1% change
    in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate would have the
    following effects:

The following table sets forth the composition of plan assets
    for the U.S. and
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit pension plans by asset category:

The investment approach of the firm s U.S. and major
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit pension plans involves employing a sufficient level of
    flexibility to capture investment opportunities as they occur,
    while maintaining reasonable parameters to ensure that prudence
    and care are exercised in the execution of the investment
    programs. The plans employ a total return on investment
    approach, whereby a mix, which is broadly similar to the actual
    asset allocation as of December 2009, of equity securities,
    debt securities and other assets, is targeted to maximize the
     long-term 
    return on assets for a given level of risk. Investment risk is
    measured and monitored on an ongoing basis by the firm s
    Retirement Committee through periodic portfolio reviews,
    meetings with investment managers and annual liability
    measurements.

The firm s pension plan assets consist of collective bank
    trusts, mutual funds, corporate bonds, alternative investments
    (e.g., hedge funds), cash and
     short-term 
    investments, and real estate investment trust holdings.
    Substantially all of the firm s pension plan assets are
    classified within level 1 or level 2 of the fair value
    hierarchy as of December 31, 2009. Only one
    investment, which is in the U.S. pension plan, is
    classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy as of
    December 31, 2009. This level 3 asset comprised
    less than 1% of the firm s total pension plan assets as of
    December 31, 2009.

The firm expects to contribute a minimum of $49 million to
    its pension plans and $13 million to its postretirement
    plans in 2010.

195

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table sets forth benefits projected to be paid
    from the firm s U.S. and
     non-U.S. defined 
    benefit pension and postretirement plans (net of Medicare
    subsidy receipts) and reflects expected future service costs,
    where appropriate:

Defined
    Contribution Plans   

The firm contributes to employer-sponsored U.S. and
     non-U.S. defined 
    contribution plans. The firm s contribution to these plans
    was $178 million, $208 million and $258 million
    for the years ended December 2009, November 2008 and
    November 2007, respectively.

Note 14.    

Employee
    Incentive Plans  

Stock
    Incentive Plan   

The firm sponsors a stock incentive plan, The Goldman Sachs
    Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (SIP), which provides
    for grants of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock
    options, stock appreciation rights, dividend equivalent rights,
    restricted stock, RSUs, awards with performance conditions and
    other
     share-based 
    awards. In the second quarter of 2003, the SIP was approved by
    the firm s shareholders, effective for grants after
    April 1, 2003, and was further amended and restated,
    effective December 31, 2008.

The total number of shares of common stock that may be delivered
    pursuant to awards granted under the SIP through the end of our
    2008 fiscal year could not exceed 250 million shares. The
    total number of shares of common stock that may be delivered
    pursuant to awards granted under the SIP in our 2009 fiscal year
    and each fiscal year thereafter cannot exceed 5% of the issued
    and outstanding shares of common stock, determined as of the
    last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year, increased by
    the number of shares available for awards in previous years but
    not covered by awards granted in such years. As of
    December 2009 and November 2008, 140.6 million
    and 162.4 million shares, respectively, were available for
    grant under the SIP.

196

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Other
    Compensation Arrangements   

The firm has maintained deferred compensation plans for eligible
    employees. In general, under the plans, participants were able
    to defer payment of a portion of their cash year-end
    compensation. During the deferral period, participants were able
    to notionally invest their deferrals in certain alternatives
    available under the plans. Generally, under current tax law,
    participants are not subject to income tax on amounts deferred
    or on any notional investment earnings until the returns are
    distributed, and the firm is not entitled to a corresponding tax
    deduction until the amounts are distributed. Beginning with the
    2008 year, these deferred compensation plans were frozen
    with respect to new contributions and the plans were terminated.
    Participants generally received distributions of their benefits
    in 2009 except that no payments were accelerated for certain
    senior executives. The firm has recognized compensation expense
    for the amounts deferred under these plans. As of
    December 2009 and November 2008, $9 million and
    $220 million, respectively, related to these plans was
    included in  Other liabilities and accrued expenses 
    in the consolidated statements of financial condition.

The firm has a discount stock program through which
    Participating Managing Directors may be permitted to acquire
    RSUs at an effective 25% discount (for 2009 and
    2008 year-end compensation, the program was suspended, and
    no individual was permitted to acquire discounted RSUs
    thereunder). In prior years, the 25% discount was effected by an
    additional grant of RSUs equal to
     one-third  of
    the number of RSUs purchased by qualifying participants. The
    purchased RSUs were 100% vested when granted, but the shares
    underlying them generally were subject to certain transfer
    restrictions (which were waived in December 2008 except for
    certain senior executives). The shares underlying the RSUs that
    were granted to effect the 25% discount generally vest in equal
    installments on the second and third anniversaries following the
    grant date and were not transferable before the third
    anniversary of the grant date (transfer restrictions on vested
    awards were waived in December 2008 except for certain
    senior executives). Compensation expense related to these RSUs
    is recognized over the vesting period. The total value of RSUs
    granted for 2007 in order to effect the 25% discount was
    $66 million.

197

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Restricted
    Stock Units   

The firm issues RSUs to employees under the SIP, primarily in
    connection with year-end compensation and acquisitions. RSUs are
    valued based on the closing price of the underlying shares on
    the date of grant after taking into account a liquidity discount
    for any applicable post-vesting transfer restrictions. Year-end
    RSUs generally vest and deliver as outlined in the applicable
    RSU agreements. All employee RSU agreements provide that vesting
    is accelerated in certain circumstances, such as upon
    retirement, death and extended absence. Of the total RSUs
    outstanding as of December 2009, November 2008 and
    December 2008 (i) 16.7 million units,
    12.0 million units and 32.0 million units,
    respectively, required future service as a condition to the
    delivery of the underlying shares of common stock and
    (ii) 28.1 million units, 43.9 million units and
    44.4 million units, respectively, did not require future
    service. In all cases, delivery of the underlying shares of
    common stock is conditioned on the grantees satisfying certain
    vesting and other requirements outlined in the award agreements.
    The activity related to these RSUs is set forth below:

In the first quarter of 2010, the firm granted to its employees
    27.1 million year-end RSUs, of which 14.1 million RSUs
    require future service as a condition of delivery and
    13.0 million RSUs do not require future service. These RSUs
    are subject to additional conditions as outlined in the RSU
    agreements. Generally, shares underlying RSUs, net of required
    withholding tax, vest and deliver over a three-year period but
    are subject to post-vesting transfer restrictions through
    January 2015. These grants are not included in the above
    table.

198

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Stock
    Options   

Stock options granted to employees generally vest as outlined in
    the applicable stock option agreement. No options were granted
    in fiscal 2009. Year-end options granted in December 2008
    will become exercisable in
     one-third 
    installments in January 2010, January 2011 and
    January 2012. Shares received on exercise cannot be sold,
    transferred or otherwise disposed of until January 2014.
    Year-end 2008 options will expire on
    December 31, 2018. Year-end options granted in
    December 2007 will become exercisable in January 2011
    and expire on November 24, 2017. Shares received on
    exercise of year-end 2007 options cannot be sold, transferred or
    otherwise disposed of until January 2013. All employee
    stock option agreements provide that vesting is accelerated in
    certain circumstances, such as upon retirement, death and
    extended absence. In general, all stock options expire on the
    tenth anniversary of the grant date, although they may be
    subject to earlier termination or cancellation under certain
    circumstances in accordance with the terms of the SIP and the
    applicable stock option agreement. The dilutive effect of the
    firm s outstanding stock options is included in
     Average common shares outstanding  
    Diluted  on the consolidated statements of earnings.

The activity related to these stock options is set forth below:

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years
    ended December 2009, November 2008 and
    November 2007 and one month ended December 2008 was
    $484 million, $433 million, $1.32 billion and
    $1 million, respectively.

The options outstanding as of December 2009 are set forth
    below:

199

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The weighted average fair value of options granted for the year
    ended 2007 and in the one month ended December 2008 was
    $51.04 and $14.08 per option, respectively. Fair value was
    estimated as of the grant date based on a Black-Scholes
    option-pricing model principally using the following weighted
    average assumptions:

The common stock underlying the options granted for the year
    ended 2007 is subject to transfer restrictions through
    January 2013. The common stock underlying the options
    granted in the one month ended December 2008 is subject to
    transfer restrictions through January 2014. The value of
    the common stock underlying the options granted for the year
    ended 2007 and in the one month ended December 2008
    reflects a liquidity discount of 24.0% and 26.7%, respectively,
    as a result of these transfer restrictions. The liquidity
    discount was based on the firm s
     pre-determined 
    written liquidity discount policies.

The following table sets forth
     share-based 
    compensation and the related tax benefit:

(1)   

Represents the tax
    benefit/(provision), recognized in additional
     paid-in 
    capital, on stock options exercised and the delivery of common
    stock underlying RSUs.

As of December 2009, there was $983 million of total
    unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested
     share-based 
    compensation arrangements. This cost is expected to be
    recognized over a weighted average period of 1.59 years.

Note 15.    

Transactions
    with Affiliated Funds  

The firm has formed numerous nonconsolidated investment funds
    with
     third-party 
    investors. The firm generally acts as the investment manager for
    these funds and, as such, is entitled to receive management fees
    and, in certain cases, advisory fees, incentive fees or
    overrides from these funds. These fees amounted to
    $2.52 billion, $3.14 billion, $3.62 billion and
    $206 million for the years ended December 2009,
    November 2008 and November 2007 and one month ended
    December 2008, respectively. As of December 2009 and
    November 2008, the fees receivable from these funds were
    $1.04 billion and $861 million, respectively.
    Additionally, the firm may invest alongside the
     third-party 
    investors in certain funds. The aggregate carrying value of the
    firm s interests in these funds was $13.84 billion and
    $14.45 billion as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively. In the ordinary course of
    business, the firm may also engage in other activities with
    these funds, including, among others, securities lending, trade
    execution, trading, custody, and acquisition and bridge
    financing. See Note 8 for the firm s commitments
    related to these funds.

200

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The components of the net tax expense reflected in the
    consolidated statements of earnings are set forth below:

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary
    differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
    assets and liabilities. These temporary differences result in
    taxable or deductible amounts in future years and are measured
    using the tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such
    differences are expected to reverse.

Significant components of the firm s deferred tax assets
    and liabilities are set forth below:

(1)   

Relates primarily to the ability to
    utilize losses in various tax jurisdictions.

(2)   

Before netting within tax
    jurisdictions.

(3)   

Relates to depreciation and
    amortization.

201

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm permanently reinvests eligible earnings of certain
    foreign subsidiaries and, accordingly, does not accrue any
    U.S. income taxes that would arise if such earnings were
    repatriated. As of December 2009 and November 2008,
    this policy resulted in an unrecognized net deferred tax
    liability of $2.34 billion and $1.08 billion,
    respectively, attributable to reinvested earnings of
    $16.21 billion and $11.60 billion, respectively.

During both 2009 and 2008, the valuation allowance was decreased
    by $19 million, primarily due to the utilization of losses
    previously considered more likely than not to expire unused.

The firm had federal net operating loss carryforwards, primarily
    resulting from acquisitions, of $266 million and
    $172 million as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively. The firm recorded a related
    net deferred income tax asset of $91 million and
    $56 million as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively. These carryforwards are
    subject to annual limitations on utilization and will begin to
    expire in 2016.

The firm had state and local net operating loss carryforwards,
    primarily resulting from acquisitions, of $1.78 billion and
    $2.59 billion as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively. The firm recorded a related
    net deferred income tax asset of $47 million and
    $97 million as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively. These carryforwards are
    subject to annual limitations on utilization and will begin to
    expire in 2012.

The firm had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of
    $24 million and $5 million as of December 2009
    and November 2008, respectively. No net deferred tax asset
    was recorded for these losses as it is more likely than not that
    the asset will not be realized. These carryforwards are subject
    to limitation on utilization and can be carried forward
    indefinitely.

The firm recorded valuation allowances on net operating losses
    of $46 million and $60 million as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively.

The firm had foreign tax credit carryforwards of
    $277 million and $334 million as of December 2009
    and November 2008, respectively. These carryforwards are
    subject to limitation on utilization and will begin to expire in
    2019.

The firm had capital loss carryforwards of $99 million and
    $50 million as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively. The firm recorded a related
    net deferred income tax asset of $35 million and
    $17 million as of December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively. These carryforwards are
    subject to annual limitations on utilization and will begin to
    expire in 2010.

The firm adopted amended principles related to accounting for
    uncertainty in income taxes as of December 1, 2007 and
    recorded a transition adjustment resulting in a reduction of
    $201 million to beginning retained earnings.

The following table sets forth the changes in the firm s
    unrecognized tax benefits (in millions):

202

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

As of December 2009 and November 2008, the firm s
    liability for unrecognized tax benefits reported in  Other
    liabilities and accrued expenses  in the consolidated
    statements of financial condition was $1.93 billion and
    $1.37 billion, respectively. As of December 2009 and
    November 2008, the firm reported a related deferred tax
    asset of $1.00 billion and $625 million, respectively,
    in  Other assets  in the consolidated statements of
    financial condition. If recognized, the net tax benefit of
    $921 million and $748 million, would reduce the
    firm s effective income tax rate as of December 2009
    and November 2008, respectively. As of December 2009
    and November 2008, the firm s accrued liability for
    interest expense related to income tax matters and income tax
    penalties was $194 million and $111 million,
    respectively. The firm reports interest expense related to
    income tax matters in  Provision for taxes  in the
    consolidated statements of earnings and income tax penalties in
     Other expenses  in the consolidated statements of
    earnings. The firm recognized $62 million, $37 million
    and $3 million of interest and income tax penalties for the
    years ended December 2009 and November 2008 and one
    month ended December 2008, respectively. It is reasonably
    possible that unrecognized tax benefits could change
    significantly during the twelve months subsequent to
    December 2009. At this time, it is not possible to estimate
    the change or its impact on the firm s effective tax rate
    over the next twelve months.

The firm is subject to examination by the U.S. Internal
    Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing authorities in
    jurisdictions where the firm has significant business
    operations, such as the United Kingdom, Japan, Hong Kong, Korea
    and various states, such as New York. The tax years under
    examination vary by jurisdiction.

Below is a table of the earliest tax years that remain subject
    to examination by major jurisdiction:

All years subsequent to the above years remain open to
    examination by the taxing authorities. The firm believes that
    the liability for unrecognized tax benefits it has established
    is adequate in relation to the potential for additional
    assessments. The resolution of tax matters is not expected to
    have a material effect on the firm s financial condition
    but may be material to the firm s operating results for a
    particular period, depending, in part, upon the operating
    results for that period.

203

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

A reconciliation of the U.S. federal statutory income tax
    rate to the firm s effective income tax rate is set forth
    below:

(1)   

Primarily includes the effect of
    the liability increase as a result of adopting amended
    principles related to accounting for uncertainty in income taxes.

(2)   

Primarily includes the effect of
    audit settlements.

Tax benefits/(provision) of approximately $(793) million,
    $645 million, $908 million and $0 for the years ended
    December 2009, November 2008 and November 2007
    and one month ended December 2008, respectively, related to
    the delivery of common stock underlying RSUs and the exercise of
    options, were recorded in  Additional
     paid-in 
    capital  in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition and changes in shareholders  equity.

Note 17.    

Regulation
    and Capital Adequacy  

The Federal Reserve Board is the primary U.S. regulator of
    Group Inc., a bank holding company that in August 2009
    also became a financial holding company under the
     U.S. Gramm-Leach-Bliley 
    Act of 1999. As a bank holding company, the firm is subject to
    consolidated regulatory capital requirements administered by the
    Federal Reserve Board. The firm s bank depository
    institution subsidiaries, including GS Bank USA, are subject to
    similar capital requirements. Under the Federal Reserve
    Board s capital adequacy requirements and the regulatory
    framework for prompt corrective action (PCA) that is applicable
    to GS Bank USA, the firm and its bank depository institution
    subsidiaries must meet specific capital requirements that
    involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain
     off-balance-sheet 
    items as calculated under regulatory reporting practices. The
    firm and its bank depository institution subsidiaries 
    capital amounts, as well as GS Bank USA s PCA
    classification, are also subject to qualitative judgments by the
    regulators about components, risk weightings and other factors.

Many of the firm s subsidiaries, including GS Co. and
    the firm s other
     broker-dealer 
    subsidiaries, are subject to separate regulation and capital
    requirements as described below.

204

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table sets forth information regarding
    Group Inc. s capital ratios as of December 2009
    calculated in accordance with the Federal Reserve Board s
    regulatory capital requirements currently applicable to bank
    holding companies, which are based on the Capital Accord of the
    Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel I). These ratios
    are used by the Federal Reserve Board and other
    U.S. federal banking agencies in the supervisory review
    process, including the assessment of the firm s capital
    adequacy. The calculation of these ratios includes certain
    market risk measures that are under review by the Federal
    Reserve Board. The calculation of these ratios has not been
    reviewed with the Federal Reserve Board and, accordingly, these
    ratios may be revised in subsequent filings.

Risk-Weighted 
    Assets (RWAs) under the Federal Reserve Board s
     risk-based 
    capital guidelines are calculated based on the amount of market
    risk and credit risk. RWAs for market risk include certain
    measures that are under review by the Federal Reserve Board.
    Credit risk for on-balance sheet assets is based on the balance
    sheet value. For off-balance sheet exposures, including OTC
    derivatives and commitments, a credit equivalent amount is
    calculated based on the notional of each trade. All such assets
    and amounts are then assigned a risk weight depending on, among
    other things, whether the counterparty is a sovereign, bank or
    qualifying securities firm, or other entity (or if collateral is
    held, depending on the nature of the collateral).

The firm s Tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as
    Tier 1 capital under Basel I divided by adjusted average
    total assets (which includes adjustments for disallowed goodwill
    and certain intangible assets).

Federal Reserve Board regulations require bank holding companies
    to maintain a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 4% and a
    minimum total capital ratio of 8%. The required minimum
    Tier 1 capital ratio and total capital ratio in order to be
    considered a  well capitalized  bank holding company
    under the Federal Reserve Board guidelines are 6% and 10%,
    respectively. Bank holding companies may be expected to maintain
    ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon their
    particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. The minimum
    Tier 1 leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that
    have received the highest supervisory rating under Federal
    Reserve Board guidelines or that have implemented the Federal
    Reserve Board s
     risk-based 
    capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies
    must have a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%.

The firm is currently working to implement the requirements set
    out in the Revised Framework for the International Convergence
    of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued by the Basel
    Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel II) as applicable
    to it as a bank holding company. U.S. banking regulators
    have incorporated the Basel II framework into the existing
     risk-based 
    capital requirements by requiring that internationally active
    banking organizations, such as Group Inc., transition to
    Basel II over several years.

205

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

GS Bank USA, a New York State-chartered bank and a member of the
    Federal Reserve System and the Federal Deposit Insurance
    Corporation (FDIC), is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board
    and the New York State Banking Department (NYSBD) and is subject
    to minimum capital requirements that (subject to certain
    exceptions) are similar to those applicable to bank holding
    companies. GS Bank USA computes its capital ratios in accordance
    with the regulatory capital guidelines currently applicable to
    state member banks, which are based on Basel I as implemented by
    the Federal Reserve Board, for purposes of assessing the
    adequacy of its capital. In order to be considered a  well
    capitalized  depository institution under the Federal
    Reserve Board guidelines, GS Bank USA must maintain a
    Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6%, a total capital ratio
    of at least 10% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%.
    In November 2008, the firm contributed subsidiaries into
    GS Bank USA. In connection with this contribution, GS Bank
    USA agreed with the Federal Reserve Board to minimum capital
    ratios in excess of these  well capitalized  levels.
    Accordingly, for a period of time, GS Bank USA is expected to
    maintain a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 8%, a total
    capital ratio of at least 11% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio
    of at least 6%.

The following table sets forth information regarding GS Bank
    USA s capital ratios under Basel I as implemented by the
    Federal Reserve Board, as of December 2009.

Consistent with the calculation of Group Inc. s
    capital ratios, the calculation of GS Bank USA s capital
    ratios includes certain market risk measures that are under
    review by the Federal Reserve Board. Accordingly, these ratios
    may be revised in subsequent filings. GS Bank USA is currently
    working to implement the Basel II framework. Similar to the
    firm s requirement as a bank holding company, GS Bank USA
    is required to transition to Basel II over the next several
    years.

The deposits of GS Bank USA are insured by the FDIC to the
    extent provided by law. The Federal Reserve Board requires
    depository institutions to maintain cash reserves with a Federal
    Reserve Bank. The amount deposited by the firm s depository
    institution subsidiaries held at the Federal Reserve Bank was
    approximately $27.43 billion and $94 million as of
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively, which
    exceeded required reserve amounts by $25.86 billion and
    $6 million as of December 2009 and November 2008,
    respectively. GS Bank Europe, a wholly owned credit institution,
    is regulated by the Irish Financial Services Regulatory
    Authority and is subject to minimum capital requirements. As of
    December 2009 and November 2008, GS Bank USA and
    GS Bank Europe were both in compliance with all regulatory
    capital requirements.

Transactions between GS Bank USA and its subsidiaries and
    Group Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates (other than,
    generally, subsidiaries of GS Bank USA) are regulated by the
    Federal Reserve Board. These regulations generally limit the
    types and amounts of transactions (including loans to and
    borrowings from GS Bank USA) that may take place and generally
    require those transactions to be on an arms-length basis.

206

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm s U.S. regulated
     broker-dealer 
    subsidiaries include GS Co. and Goldman Sachs
    Execution   Clearing, L.P. (GSEC). GS Co. and
    GSEC are registered
     U.S. broker-dealers 
    and futures commission merchants subject to
     Rule 15c3-1 
    of the SEC and Rule 1.17 of the Commodity Futures Trading
    Commission, which specify uniform minimum net capital
    requirements, as defined, for their registrants, and also
    effectively require that a significant part of the
    registrants  assets be kept in relatively liquid form.
    GS Co. and GSEC have elected to compute their minimum
    capital requirements in accordance with the  Alternative
    Net Capital Requirement  as permitted by
     Rule 15c3-1. 
    As of December 2009, GS Co. had regulatory net
    capital, as defined by
     Rule 15c3-1, 
    of $13.65 billion, which exceeded the amount required by
    $11.81 billion. As of December 2009, GSEC had
    regulatory net capital, as defined by
     Rule 15c3-1, 
    of $1.97 billion, which exceeded the amount required by
    $1.86 billion. In addition to its alternative minimum net
    capital requirements, GS Co. is also required to hold
    tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net
    capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the
    market and credit risk standards of Appendix E of
     Rule 15c3-1. 
    GS Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that
    its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of
    December 2009 and November 2008, GS Co. had
    tentative net capital and net capital in excess of both the
    minimum and the notification requirements.

The firm has U.S. insurance subsidiaries that are subject
    to state insurance regulation and oversight in the states in
    which they are domiciled and in the other states in which they
    are licensed. In addition, certain of the firm s insurance
    subsidiaries outside of the U.S. are part of the
    Lloyd s market (which is regulated by the U.K. s
    Financial Services Authority (FSA)) and certain are regulated by
    the Bermuda Monetary Authority. The firm s insurance
    subsidiaries were in compliance with all regulatory capital
    requirements as of December 2009 and November 2008.

The firm s principal
     non-U.S. regulated 
    subsidiaries include Goldman Sachs International (GSI) and
    Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL). GSI, the firm s
    regulated U.K.
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to the capital requirements of the FSA. GSJCL, the
    firm s regulated Japanese
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to the capital requirements imposed by Japan s
    Financial Services Agency. As of December 2009 and
    November 2008, GSI and GSJCL were in compliance with their
    local capital adequacy requirements. Certain other
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    of the firm are also subject to capital adequacy requirements
    promulgated by authorities of the countries in which they
    operate. As of December 2009 and November 2008, these
    subsidiaries were in compliance with their local capital
    adequacy requirements.

The regulatory requirements referred to above restrict
    Group Inc. s ability to withdraw capital from its
    regulated subsidiaries. As of December 2009 and
    November 2008, approximately $23.49 billion and
    $26.92 billion, respectively, of net assets of regulated
    subsidiaries were restricted as to the payment of dividends to
    Group Inc. In addition to limitations on the payment of
    dividends imposed by federal and state laws, the Federal Reserve
    Board, the FDIC and the NYSBD have authority to prohibit or to
    limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they
    supervise (including GS Bank USA) if, in the relevant
    regulator s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute
    an unsafe or unsound practice in the light of the financial
    condition of the banking organization.

207

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 18.    

Business
    Segments  

In reporting to management, the firm s operating results
    are categorized into the following three business segments:
    Investment Banking, Trading and Principal Investments, and Asset
    Management and Securities Services.

Basis of
    Presentation   

In reporting segments, certain of the firm s business lines
    have been aggregated where they have similar economic
    characteristics and are similar in each of the following areas:
    (i) the nature of the services they provide,
    (ii) their methods of distribution, (iii) the types of
    clients they serve and (iv) the regulatory environments in
    which they operate.

The cost drivers of the firm taken as a whole  
    compensation, headcount and levels of business
    activity   are broadly similar in each of the
    firm s business segments. Compensation and benefits
    expenses within the firm s segments reflect, among other
    factors, the overall performance of the firm as well as the
    performance of individual business units. Consequently,
     pre-tax 
    margins in one segment of the firm s business may be
    significantly affected by the performance of the firm s
    other business segments.

The firm allocates revenues and expenses among the three
    business segments. Due to the integrated nature of these
    segments, estimates and judgments have been made in allocating
    certain revenue and expense items. Transactions between segments
    are based on specific criteria or approximate
     third-party 
    rates. Total operating expenses include corporate items that
    have not been allocated to individual business segments. The
    allocation process is based on the manner in which management
    views the business of the firm.

The segment information presented in the table below is prepared
    according to the following methodologies:

Revenues and expenses directly associated with each segment are
    included in determining
     pre-tax 
    earnings.

Net revenues in the firm s segments include allocations of
    interest income and interest expense to specific securities,
    commodities and other positions in relation to the cash
    generated by, or funding requirements of, such underlying
    positions. Net interest is included within segment net revenues
    as it is consistent with the way in which management assesses
    segment performance.

Overhead expenses not directly allocable to specific segments
    are allocated ratably based on direct segment expenses.

208

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Segment
    Operating Results   

Management believes that the following information provides a
    reasonable representation of each segment s contribution to
    consolidated
     pre-tax 
    earnings and total assets:

(1)   

Net revenues include net interest
    income as set forth in the table below:

(2)   

Net revenues include
     non-interest 
    revenues as set forth in the table below:

209

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Trading and principal investments revenues include
    $36 million, $(61) million, $6 million and $(2)
    million for the years ended December 2009,
    November 2008 and November 2007 and one month ended
    December 2008, respectively, of realized gains/(losses) on
    securities held within the firm s insurance subsidiaries
    which are accounted for as
     available-for-sale. 

(3)   

Operating expenses include net
    provisions for a number of litigation and regulatory proceedings
    of $104 million, $(4) million, $37 million and
    $68 million for the years ended December 2009,
    November 2008 and November 2007 and one month ended
    December 2008, respectively, that have not been allocated
    to the firm s segments.

(4)   

Pre-tax 
    earnings include total depreciation and amortization as set
    forth in the table below:

Geographic
    Information   

Due to the highly integrated nature of international financial
    markets, the firm manages its businesses based on the
    profitability of the enterprise as a whole. Since a significant
    portion of the firm s activities require cross-border
    coordination in order to facilitate the needs of the firm s
    clients, the methodology for allocating the firm s
    profitability to geographic regions is dependent on estimates
    and management judgment.

Geographic results are generally allocated as follows:

Investment Banking: location of the client and investment
    banking team.

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities, and Equities: location
    of the trading desk.

Principal Investments: location of the investment.

Asset Management: location of the sales team.

Securities Services: location of the primary market for the
    underlying security.

210

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The following table sets forth the total net revenues,
     pre-tax 
    earnings and net earnings of the firm by geographic region
    allocated based on the methodology referred to above, as well as
    the percentage of total net revenues,
     pre-tax 
    earnings and net earnings for each geographic region:

(1)  

Substantially all relates to the U.S.

(2)  

EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa).

(3)  

Consists of net provisions for a number of litigation and
    regulatory proceedings.

211

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 19.    

Interest
    Income and Interest Expense  

The following table sets forth the details of the firm s
    interest income and interest expense:

(1)   

Interest income is recorded on an
    accrual basis based on contractual interest rates.

(2)   

Primarily includes interest income
    on customer debit balances and other interest-earning assets.

(3)   

Includes interest on unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings and
     short-term 
    other secured financings.

(4)   

Includes interest on unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings and
     long-term 
    other secured financings.

(5)   

Primarily includes interest expense
    on customer credit balances and other interest-bearing
    liabilities.

212

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Group Inc.  
    Condensed Statements of Earnings  

Group Inc.  
    Condensed Statements of Financial Condition  

Group Inc.  
    Condensed Statements of Cash Flows  

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:

Cash payments for
     third-party 
    interest, net of capitalized interest, were $2.77 billion,
    $7.18 billion, $7.78 billion and $248 million for
    the years ended December 2009, November 2008 and
    November 2007 and one month ended December 2008,
    respectively.

Cash payments for income taxes, net
    of refunds, were $2.77 billion, $991 million,
    $3.27 billion and $1 million for the years ended
    December 2009, November 2008 and November 2007
    and one month ended December 2008, respectively.

213

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Quarterly Results
    (unaudited)  

The following represents the firm s unaudited quarterly
    results for the fiscal years ended December 2009 and
    November 2008. These quarterly results were prepared in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
    reflect all adjustments that are, in the opinion of management,
    necessary for a fair statement of the results. These adjustments
    are of a normal recurring nature.

(1)  

Financial information for the three months ended
    March 2008, June 2008, September 2008 and
    December 2008 has not been included for the following
    reasons: (i) the three months ended February 2008,
    May 2008, August 2008 and November 2008
    (collectively, the 2008 quarters) provide a meaningful
    comparison for the three months ended March 2009,
    June 2009, September 2009 and December 2009
    (collectively, the 2009 quarters), respectively; (ii) there
    are no seasonal or other factors that would impact the
    comparability of the results for the 2009 quarters with the
    results for the 2008 quarters; and (iii) it was not
    practicable or cost justified to prepare this information.

(2)  

The timing and magnitude of changes in the firm s
    discretionary compensation accruals can have a significant
    effect on results in a given quarter.

214

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Common Stock
    Price Range  

The following table sets forth, for the quarters indicated, the
    high and low sales prices per share of the firm s common
    stock:

As of February 12, 2010, there were 11,720 holders of
    record of the firm s common stock.

On February 12, 2010, the last reported sales price
    for the firm s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange
    was $153.93 per share.

215

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Selected
    Financial Data  

216

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Statistical
    Disclosures  

Distribution
    of Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders 
    Equity   

The following table sets forth a summary of consolidated average
    balances and interest rates for the years ended
    December 2009, November 2008 and November 2007:

217

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

(1)  

Consists of cash trading instruments, including equity
    securities and convertible debentures.

(2)  

Derivative instruments are included in other noninterest-earning
    assets and other noninterest-bearing liabilities.

(3)  

Primarily consists of cash and securities segregated for
    regulatory and other purposes and receivables from customers and
    counterparties.

(4)  

Consists of
     short-term 
    other secured financings and unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, excluding commercial paper.

(5)  

Interest rates include the effects of interest rate swaps
    accounted for as hedges.

(6)  

Consists of
     long-term 
    other secured financings and unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings.

(7)  

Primarily consists of payables to customers and counterparties.

(8)  

Assets, liabilities and interest are attributed to U.S. and
     non-U.S. based 
    on the location of the legal entity in which the assets and
    liabilities are held.

218

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Changes in Net
    Interest Income, Volume and Rate Analysis   

The following table sets forth an analysis of the effect on net
    interest income of volume and rate changes for the periods 2009
    versus 2008 and 2008 versus 2007. In this analysis, changes due
    to volume/rate variance have been allocated to volume.

219

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Available-for-sale 
    Securities Portfolio   

The following table sets forth the amortized cost, gross
    unrealized gains and losses, and fair value of
     available-for-sale 
    securities at December 2009 and November 2008:

220

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

(1)   

Yields are calculated on a weighted average basis.

221

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Deposits   

The following table sets forth a summary of the average balances
    and average interest rates for the firm s interest-bearing
    deposits for the years ended December 2009,
    November 2008 and November 2007:

(1)   

Amounts are available for
    withdrawal upon short notice, generally within seven days.

Ratios   

The following table sets forth selected financial ratios:

(1)   

Based on net earnings applicable to
    common shareholders divided by average monthly common
    shareholders  equity.

(2)   

Based on net earnings divided by
    average monthly total shareholders  equity.

222

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Short-term 
    and Other Borrowed Funds
        (1)   

The following table sets forth a summary of the firm s
    securities loaned and securities sold under agreements to
    repurchase and
     short-term 
    borrowings as of or for the years ended December 2009,
    November 2008 and November 2007 as indicated below:

223

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Cross-border
    Outstandings   

Cross-border outstandings are based upon the Federal Financial
    Institutions Examination Council s (FFIEC) regulatory
    guidelines for reporting cross-border risk. Claims include cash,
    receivables, securities purchased under agreements to resell,
    securities borrowed and cash trading instruments, but exclude
    derivative instruments and commitments. Securities purchased
    under agreements to resell and securities borrowed are presented
    based on the domicile of the counterparty, without reduction for
    related securities collateral held.

The following tables set forth cross-border outstandings for
    each country in which cross-border outstandings exceed 0.75% of
    consolidated assets as of December 2009 and
    November 2008 in accordance with the FFIEC guidelines:

224

Table of Contents   

Item 9.    

Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure  

There were no changes in or disagreements with accountants on
    accounting and financial disclosure during the last two fiscal
    years.

Item 9A.  Controls
    and Procedures  

As of the end of the period covered by this report, an
    evaluation was carried out by Goldman Sachs  management,
    with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rule 13a-15(e) 
    under the Exchange Act). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief
    Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that
    these disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of
    the end of the period covered by this report. In addition, no
    change in our internal control over financial reporting (as
    defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) occurred during the fourth quarter of
    our fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 that has
    materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
    affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting and the Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm are set forth in Part II, Item 8 of
    this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 9B.  Other
    Information  

Not applicable.

225

Table of Contents   

PART III  

Item 10.    

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  

Information relating to our executive officers is included on
    pages 50 to 51 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 
    Information relating to our directors, including our audit
    committee and audit committee financial experts and the
    procedures by which shareholders can recommend director
    nominees, and our executive officers will be in our definitive
    Proxy Statement for our 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
    be held on May 7, 2010, which will be filed within
    120 days of the end of our fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2009 (2010 Proxy Statement) and is
    incorporated herein by reference. Information relating to our
    Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our senior
    financial officers, as defined in the Code, is included in
    Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K. 

Item 11.    

Executive
    Compensation  

Information relating to our executive officer and director
    compensation and the compensation committee of our board of
    directors will be in the 2010 Proxy Statement and is
    incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12.    

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters  

Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial
    owners of our common stock and information relating to the
    security ownership of our management will be in the 2010 Proxy
    Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

226

Table of Contents   

The following table provides information as of
    December 31, 2009, the last day of fiscal 2009,
    regarding securities to be issued on exercise of outstanding
    stock options or pursuant to outstanding restricted stock units
    and performance-based awards, and securities remaining available
    for issuance under our equity compensation plans that were in
    effect during fiscal 2009.

Number of Securities 

Number of 

Remaining Available 

Securities to be 

for Future Issuance 

Issued Upon 

Weighted-Average 

Under Equity 

Exercise of 

Exercise Price of 

Compensation Plans 

Outstanding 

Outstanding 

(Excluding Securities 

Options, Warrants 

Options, Warrants 

Reflected in the 

Plan Category 

and Rights 

and Rights 

Second Column) 

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders

The Goldman 
    Sachs Amended 
    and Restated 
    Stock Incentive 
    Plan  (1) 

106,752,445

(2) 

$

95.25

(3) 

140,552,906

(4) 

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

None

Total

106,752,445

(2) 

140,552,906

(4) 

(1)   

The Goldman Sachs Amended and
    Restated Stock Incentive Plan (SIP) was approved by the
    shareholders of Goldman Sachs at our 2003 Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders and is a successor plan to The Goldman Sachs 1999
    Stock Incentive Plan (1999 Plan), which was approved by our
    shareholders immediately prior to our initial public offering in
    May 1999 and under which no additional awards have been
    granted since approval of the SIP.

(2)   

Includes:
    (i) 62,363,847 shares of common stock that may be
    issued upon exercise of outstanding options;
    (ii) 44,278,092 shares that may be issued pursuant to
    outstanding restricted stock units, including
    44,250,832 shares granted under the SIP and
    27,260 shares granted under the 1999 Plan; and
    (iii) 110,506 shares that may be issued pursuant to
    outstanding performance-based units granted under the SIP. These
    awards are subject to vesting and other conditions to the extent
    set forth in the respective award agreements, and the underlying
    shares will be delivered net of any required tax withholding.

(3)   

This weighted-average exercise
    price relates only to the options described in footnote (2).
    Shares underlying restricted stock units and performance-based
    units are deliverable without the payment of any consideration,
    and therefore these awards have not been taken into account in
    calculating the weighted-average exercise price.

(4)   

Represents shares remaining to be
    issued under the SIP, excluding shares reflected in the second
    column. The total number of shares of common stock that may be
    delivered pursuant to awards granted under the SIP through the
    end of our 2008 fiscal year could not exceed 250 million
    shares. The total number of shares of common stock that may be
    delivered pursuant to awards granted under the SIP in our 2009
    fiscal year and each fiscal year thereafter cannot exceed 5% of
    the issued and outstanding shares of common stock, determined as
    of the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year,
    increased by the number of shares available for awards in
    previous years but not covered by awards granted in such years.
    There are no shares remaining to be issued under the 1999 Plan
    other than those reflected in the second column.

Item 13.    

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence  

Information regarding certain relationships and related
    transactions and director independence will be in the 2010 Proxy
    Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.    

Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services  

Information regarding principal accountant fees and services
    will be in the 2010 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein
    by reference.

227

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15.    

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules  

(a)    
     
     Documents filed as part of this Report: 

1. 

Consolidated Financial Statements

The consolidated financial statements required to be filed
    in this Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    are included in Part II, Item 8 hereof.

2.1

Plan of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to the
    corresponding exhibit to the Registrant s registration
    statement on
     Form S-1 
     (No. 333-74449)). 

3.1

Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to
    the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended September 25, 2009).

3.2

Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 to the
    Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended September 25, 2009).

4.1

Indenture, dated as of May 19, 1999, between The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York, as trustee
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 6 to the
    Registrant s registration statement on
     Form 8-A, 
    filed June 29, 1999).

4.2

Subordinated Debt Indenture, dated as of
    February 20, 2004, between The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. and The Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant s Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2003).

4.3

Warrant Indenture, dated as of February 14, 2006,
    between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York,
    as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.34 to
    the Registrant s Post-Effective Amendment No. 3 to
     Form S-3, 
    filed on March 1, 2006).

4.4

Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of December 4, 2007,
    among GS Finance Corp., as issuer, The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc., as guarantor, and The Bank of New York, as Trustee
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.69 to the
    Registrant s Post-Effective Amendment No. 10 to
     Form S-3, 
    filed on December 4, 2007).

4.5

Form of floating rate senior debt security (TLGP) issued under
    the Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2008,
    between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York
    Mellon, as trustee (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.5 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2008).

4.6

Form of fixed rate senior debt security (TLGP) issued under the
    Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2008,
    between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York
    Mellon, as trustee (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.6 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2008).

4.7

Form of floating rate
     Medium-Term 
    Note, Series D (TLGP) issued under the Senior Debt
    Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2008, between The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon, as
    trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.7 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2008).

228

Table of Contents   

4.8

Form of fixed rate
     Medium-Term 
    Note, Series D (TLGP) issued under the Senior Debt
    Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2008, between The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York Mellon, as
    trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.8 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2008).

Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of
     long-term 
    debt securities of the Registrant and its subsidiaries are
    omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of
    Regulation S - K.
    The Registrant hereby undertakes to furnish to the SEC, upon
    request, copies of any such instruments. 

4.9

Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2008,
    between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York
    Mellon, as trustee (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.82 to the Registrant s Post-Effective
    Amendment No. 11 to
     Form S-3 
     (No. 333-130074), 
    filed July 17, 2008).

4.10

Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of October 10, 2008,
    among GS Finance Corp., as issuer, The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc., as guarantor, and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.70 to the
    Registrant s registration statement on
     Form S-3 
     (No. 333-154173), 
    filed October 10, 2008).

10.1

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2008). 

10.2

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Restricted Partner
    Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended February 24, 2006). 

10.3

Form of Employment Agreement for
     pre-IPO 
    Participating Managing Directors (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.19 to the Registrant s registration
    statement on
     Form S-1 
     (No. 333-75213)).  

10.4

Form of Agreement Relating to Noncompetition and Other Covenants
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the
    Registrant s registration statement on
     Form S-1 
     (No. 333-75213)).  

10.5

Tax Indemnification Agreement, dated as of
    May 7, 1999, by and among The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. and various parties (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.25 to the Registrant s registration
    statement on
     Form S-1 
     (No. 333-75213)). 

10.6

Amended and Restated Shareholders  Agreement, effective as
    of January 22, 2010, among The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. and various parties.

10.7

Instrument of Indemnification (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.27 to the Registrant s registration
    statement on
     Form S-1 
     (No. 333-75213)). 

10.8

Form of Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.28 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 26, 1999).

10.9

Form of Indemnification Agreement (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.44 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 26, 1999).

10.10

Form of Indemnification Agreement, dated as of
    July 5, 2000 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended August 25, 2000).

10.11

Amendment No. 1, dated as of September 5, 2000,
    to the Tax Indemnification Agreement, dated as of
    May 7, 1999 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.3 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended August 25, 2000).

10.12

Letter, dated February 6, 2001, from The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc. to Dr. Ruth J. Simmons (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.63 to the Registrant s Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 24, 2000). 

229

Table of Contents   

230

Table of Contents   

10.29

Form of Year-End Option Award Agreement (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.36 to the Registrant s Annual
    Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 28,
    2008). 

10.30

Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (not fully vested). 

10.31

Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (fully vested). 

10.32

Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (French alternative
    award). 

10.33

Amendments to 2005 and 2006 Year-End RSU and Option Award
    Agreements (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to
    the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007). 

10.34

Form of
     Non-Employee 
    Director Option Award Agreement. 

10.35

Form of
     Non-Employee 
    Director RSU Award Agreement. 

10.36

Description of
     Non-Employee 
    Director Compensation. 

10.37

Ground Lease, dated August 23, 2005, between Battery
    Park City Authority d/b/a/ Hugh L. Carey Battery Park City
    Authority, as Landlord, and Goldman Sachs Headquarters LLC, as
    Tenant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Registrant s Current Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed August 26, 2005).

10.38

General Guarantee Agreement, dated January 30, 2006,
    made by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 10.45 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 25, 2005).

10.39

Letter, dated November 10, 2006, from The Goldman
    Sachs Group, Inc. to Mr. Rajat K. Gupta (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant s Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed November 13, 2006). 

10.40

Goldman, Sachs   Co. Executive Life Insurance Policy
    and Certificate with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company for
    Participating Managing Directors (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended August 25, 2006). 

10.41

Form of Goldman, Sachs   Co. Executive Life Insurance
    Policy with Pacific Life   Annuity Company for
    Participating Managing Directors, including policy
    specifications and form of restriction on Policy Owner s
    Rights (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended August 25, 2006). 

10.42

Form of Signature Card for Equity Awards. 

10.43

Form of Employment Agreement for post-IPO Participating Managing
    Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.50 to
    the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 24, 2006). 

10.44

Form of Second Amendment, dated November 25, 2006, to
    Agreement Relating to Noncompetition and Other Covenants, dated
    May 7, 1999, as amended effective
    November 27, 2004 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.51 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 24, 2006). 

10.45

Description of PMD Retiree Medical Program (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s
    Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended February 29, 2008). 

10.46

Letter, dated June 28, 2008, from The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc. to Mr. Lakshmi N. Mittal (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant s Current
    Report on
     Form 8-K, 
    filed June 30, 2008). 

10.47

Securities Purchase Agreement, dated
    September 29, 2008, between The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended August 29, 2008).

231

Table of Contents   

10.48

General Guarantee Agreement, dated December 1, 2008,
    made by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. relating to certain
    obligations of Goldman Sachs Bank USA (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 4.80 to the Registrant s Post-Effective
    Amendment No. 2 to
     Form S-3, 
    filed March 19, 2009).

10.49

Form of Letter Agreement between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
    and each of Lloyd C. Blankfein, Gary D. Cohn, Jon Winkelried and
    David A. Viniar (incorporated by reference to Exhibit O to
    Amendment No. 70 to Schedule 13D, filed
    October 1, 2008, relating to the Registrant s
    common stock
     (No. 005-56295)). 

10.50

General Guarantee Agreement, dated November 24, 2008,
    made by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. relating to the
    obligations of Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.59 to the Registrant s Annual
    Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2008).

10.51

Guarantee Agreement, dated November 28, 2008 and
    amended effective as of January 1, 2010, between The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Goldman Sachs Bank USA.

10.52

Collateral Agreement, dated November 28, 2008, between
    The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Goldman Sachs Bank USA and each
    other party that becomes a pledgor pursuant thereto
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.61 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2008).

10.53

Form of Performance-Based
     One-Time  RSU
    Award Agreement. 

10.54

Form of Make-Whole
     One-Time  RSU
    Award Agreement. 

10.55

Form of Incentive
     One-Time  RSU
    Award Agreement. 

10.56

Form of Signature Card for Equity Awards (employees in Asia
    outside China). 

10.57

Form of Signature Card for Equity Awards (employees in
    China). 

10.58

Amendments to Certain Equity Award Agreements (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.68 to the Registrant s Annual
    Report on Form
     10-K  for the
    fiscal year ended November 28, 2008). 

10.59

Amendments to Certain
     Non-Employee 
    Director Equity Award Agreements  (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.69 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2008). 

10.60

Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (U.K.). 

10.61

Form of Year-End Supplemental RSU Award Agreement (U.K.). 

10.62

Form of Year-End Supplemental RSU Award Agreement (U.K. and
    France). 

12.1

Statement re: Computation of Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges
    and Ratios of Earnings to Combined Fixed Charges and Preferred
    Stock Dividends.

21.1

List of significant subsidiaries of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

23.1

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.

31.1

Rule 13a-14(a) 
    Certifications.*

32.1

Section 1350 Certifications.*

232

Table of Contents   

This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or
    arrangement.

233

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

By: 

/s/  David
    A. Viniar

Name: David
    A. Viniar

Title: 

Chief Financial Officer

Date: February 26, 2010

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

II-1

Table of Contents   

Signature 

Capacity 

Date 

/s/  Ruth
    J. Simmons
 
      Ruth
    J. Simmons

Director

February 26, 2010

/s/  David
    A. Viniar
 
      David
    A. Viniar

Chief Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial Officer)

February 26, 2010

/s/  Sarah
    E. Smith
 
      Sarah
    E. Smith

Principal Accounting Officer

February 26, 2010

II-2

<EX-10.6>
 2
 y81914exv10w6.htm
 EX-10.6: AMENDED AND RESTATED SHAREHOLDERS' AGREEMENT

exv10w6 

Exhibit 10.6 

AMENDED AND RESTATED SHAREHOLDERS  AGREEMENT 

This Amended and Restated Shareholders  Agreement (this   Agreement  ), among The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation (  GS Inc.  ), and the Covered Persons
(hereinafter defined) listed on Appendix A hereto, as such Appendix A may be amended from time to
time pursuant to the provisions hereof.

WITNESSETH: 

WHEREAS, the Covered Persons are beneficial owners of shares of Common Stock, par value $0.01
per share, of GS Inc. (the   Common Stock  ).

WHEREAS, GS Inc. entered into the Original Shareholders  Agreement (hereinafter defined) in
connection with the initial public offering of GS Inc. to address certain relationships among the
parties thereto with respect to the voting and disposition of shares of Common Stock and various
other matters, and to give to the Shareholders  Committee (hereinafter defined) the power to
enforce their agreements with respect thereto.

WHEREAS, the Shareholders  Committee, GS Inc. and a majority of the outstanding Voting
Interests (as defined in the Original Shareholders  Agreement) desire to amend certain provisions
of the Original Shareholders  Agreement.

NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and of the mutual agreements, covenants and
provisions herein contained, the parties hereto agree to amend and restate the Original
Shareholders  Agreement in its entirety as follows:

ARTICLE I 
DEFINITIONS AND OTHER MATTERS 

Section 1.1  Definitions . The following words and phrases as used herein shall have
the following meanings, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise
requires:

(a) This   Agreement   shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the
Recitals.

(b) A   beneficial owner   of a security includes any person who, directly or
indirectly, through any contract, arrangement, understanding, relationship or otherwise
has or shares: (i) voting power, which includes the power to vote, or to direct the
voting of, such security and/or (ii) investment power, which includes the power to
dispose, or to direct the disposition of, such security, but for purposes of this
Agreement a person shall not be deemed a beneficial owner of (A) Common Stock solely by
virtue of the application of Exchange Act Rule 13d-3(d) or Exchange Act Rule 13d-5, (B)
Common Stock

solely by virtue of the possession of the legal right to vote securities under
applicable state or other law (such as by proxy or power of attorney) or (C) Common
Stock held of record by a  private foundation  subject to the requirements of Section
509 of the Code.   Beneficially own   and   beneficial ownership   shall
have correlative meanings.

(c)   Code   shall mean the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended from time to time, and the applicable rulings and regulations thereunder.

(d)   Common Stock   shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the
Recitals.

(e)   Company   shall mean GS Inc., together with its Subsidiaries.

(f)   Continuing Provisions   shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in
Section 7.1(b).

(g)   Covered Persons   shall mean the Participating Managing Directors,
whose names are listed on Appendix A hereto, and all persons who may become
Participating Managing Directors, whose names will be added to Appendix A hereto.

(h)   Covered Shares   shall, with respect to each Covered Person, equal the
sum of the number of shares of Common Stock determined by the following calculation,
which calculation shall be made, and the sum shall be determined, each time, after a
Covered Person s Participation Date and with respect to an award (other than an award in
connection with GS Inc. s initial public offering or any acquisition by GS Inc. (unless
otherwise determined by the Shareholders  Committee)) under a Goldman Sachs Compensation
Plan, such Covered Person:

(i) receives Common Stock underlying an award of restricted
stock units,

(ii) becomes vested in an award under the Defined
Contribution Plan with respect to fiscal 1999 or 2000 only, or

(iii) exercises a stock option.

As of each such relevant event, the calculation, unless otherwise determined by the
Shareholders  Committee, shall be:

(A) such Covered Person s  gross  number of shares of Common Stock underlying
such restricted stock units, Defined Contribution Plan awards or stock options,
as applicable  (i.e.,  the gross number is determined before any deductions,
including any deductions for

2 

withholding taxes, fees, commissions or the payment of any amount in respect of
exercise),

minus 

(B) the sum of :

(1) 
       
     with respect to the
exercise of any stock option, a number of shares of Common
Stock (subject to rounding) having a fair market value equal
to the exercise price of such option (determined based on the
closing price of the Common Stock on the trading day
immediately preceding the date of exercise), but not
including any amount in respect of fees, commissions, taxes
or other charges, and 

(2) 
       
     with respect to any
relevant event, the product of: 

(a) 
       
     the  gross 
number of shares of Common Stock underlying the
awards as described in Clause (A) above, less the
number of shares of Common Stock determined in Clause
(B)(1) above, if any, and 

(b) 
       
     the
Specified Tax Rate. 

With respect to any other type of award that may be granted under a Goldman Sachs
Compensation Plan from time to time, the timing and manner of the calculation of Covered
Shares in connection with such awards shall be as determined by the Shareholders 
Committee.

(i)   Defined Contribution Plan   shall mean The Goldman Sachs Defined
Contribution Plan adopted by the Board of Directors of GS Inc., and approved by the
stockholders of GS Inc., on May 7, 1999, as amended or supplemented from time to time,
and any successors to such Plan.

(j)   Designated Senior Officers   shall mean each Participating Managing
Director who at the time in question has been appointed to a Designated Title.

(k)   Designated Title   shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in
Section 7.2(g) hereof.

(l)   Effective Date   shall mean the close of business on January 22, 2010.

(m)   Employees  Profit Sharing Plan   shall mean The Goldman Sachs
Employees  Profit Sharing Retirement Income Plan, as amended or supplemented from time
to time, and any successors to such Plan.

3 

(n)   Exchange Act   shall mean the United States Securities Exchange Act of
1934, as amended from time to time.

(o) A reference to an   Exchange Act Rule   shall mean such rule or
regulation of the SEC under the Exchange Act, as in effect from time to time or as
replaced by a successor rule thereto.

(p)   General Transfer Restrictions   shall have the meaning ascribed to such
term in Section 2.1(a) hereof.

(q)   Goldman Sachs Compensation Plan   shall mean the Defined Contribution
Plan, the Stock Incentive Plan or any other deferred compensation or employee benefit
plan of GS Inc. adopted by the Board of Directors of GS Inc. and specified by the
Shareholders  Committee as a Goldman Sachs Compensation Plan (other than the Employees 
Profit Sharing Plan).

(r)   GS Inc.   shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in the Recitals.

(s)   Original Shareholders  Agreement   shall mean the Shareholders 
Agreement adopted by the Board of Directors of GS Inc. on May 7, 1999, as amended or
supplemented from time to time up to but excluding the Effective Date.

(t)   Participation Date   is the date on which a Covered Person became a
Participating Managing Director for purposes of Section 2.1(a) hereof or was appointed
to a Designated Title for purposes of Section 2.1(b) hereof. In the event a
Participating Managing Director ceases to be a Participating Managing Director, or a
Designated Senior Officer ceases to be a Designated Senior Officer, and then such person
again becomes a Participating Managing Director or Designated Senior Officer, as
applicable, such person s Participation Date shall be determined by the Shareholders 
Committee (or any person authorized thereby).

(u)   Participating Managing Director   shall mean a Managing Director of the
Company who at the time in question participates in the Partner Compensation Plan, the
Restricted Partner Compensation Plan or any other compensation or benefit plan specified
by the Shareholders  Committee.

(v)   Partner Compensation Plan   shall mean The Goldman Sachs Partner
Compensation Plan adopted by the Board of Directors of GS Inc., and approved by the
stockholders of GS Inc., on May 7, 1999, as amended or supplemented from time to time,
and any successors to such Plan.

4 

(w) A   person   shall include, as applicable, any individual, estate, trust,
corporation, partnership, limited liability company, unlimited liability company,
foundation, association or other entity.

(x)   Preliminary Vote   shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in
Section 4.1(a) hereof.

(y)   Restricted Partner Compensation Plan   shall mean The Goldman Sachs
Restricted Partner Compensation Plan adopted by the Board of Directors of GS Inc. on
January 16, 2003 and approved by the stockholders of GS Inc. on April 1, 2003, as
amended or supplemented from time to time, and any successors to such Plan.

(z)   Restricted Person   shall mean any person who is not (i) a Covered
Person or (ii) a director, officer or employee of the Company acting in such person s
capacity as a director, officer or employee.

(aa)   SEC   shall mean the United States Securities and Exchange Commission.

(bb)   Shareholders  Committee   shall mean the body constituted to
administer the terms and provisions of this Agreement pursuant to Article V hereof.

(cc)   Sole Beneficial Owner   shall mean a person who is the beneficial
owner of shares of Common Stock, who does not share beneficial ownership of such shares
of Common Stock with any other person (other than pursuant to this Agreement or
applicable community property laws) and who is the only person (other than pursuant to
applicable community property laws) with a direct economic interest in such shares of
Common Stock. The interest of a spouse or a domestic partner in a joint account, and an
economic interest of the Company as pledgee, shall be disregarded for this purpose.

(dd)   Special Transfer Restrictions   shall have the meaning ascribed to
such term in Section 2.1(b) hereof.

(ee)   Specified Tax Rate   shall mean the rate determined from time to time
by the Shareholders  Committee (or any person authorized thereby), in its sole
discretion, to be applicable to the calculation of Covered Shares.

(ff)   Stock Incentive Plan   shall mean The Goldman Sachs Amended and
Restated Stock Incentive Plan adopted by the Board of Directors of GS Inc. on January
16, 2003 and approved by the stockholders of GS Inc. on April 1, 2003, as amended or
supplemented from time to time, and any predecessors or successors to such Plan.

5 

(gg)   Subsidiary   shall mean any person in which GS Inc. owns, directly or
indirectly, a majority of the equity economic or voting ownership interest.

(hh)   Transfer Restrictions   shall mean the General Transfer Restrictions
and the Special Transfer Restrictions.

(ii)   vote   shall include actions taken or proposed to be taken by written
consent.

(jj)   Voting Shares   shall have the meaning ascribed to such term in
Section 4.1(a).

Section 1.2  Gender . For the purposes of this Agreement, the words  he,   his  or
 himself  shall be interpreted to include the masculine, feminine and corporate, other entity or
trust form.

ARTICLE II 
LIMITATIONS ON TRANSFER OF SHARES 

Section 2.1  Transfer Restrictions .

(a) Each Covered Person agrees that for so long as he is a Covered Person, he shall at
all times be the Sole Beneficial Owner of at least that number of shares of Common Stock
which equals 25% of his Covered Shares,  provided , that with respect to 2009 year-end equity
awards granted in accordance with the equity deferral table approved by the Board of
Directors of GS Inc. or its Compensation Committee, such number shall equal 30% of the
Covered Shares relating thereto (the   General Transfer Restrictions  ).

(b) Each Designated Senior Officer agrees that for so long as he is a Designated
Senior Officer, he shall at all times be the Sole Beneficial Owner of at least that number
of shares of Common Stock which equals 75% of his Covered Shares (the   Special Transfer
Restrictions    provided, however , that the same Covered Shares may be used to satisfy
both the Special Transfer Restrictions and the General Transfer Restrictions.

Section 2.2  Holding of Common Stock in GS Inc. Brokerage Accounts or in Custody and in
Nominee Name; Entry of Stop Transfer Orders .

(a) Each Covered Person understands and agrees that all shares of Common Stock
beneficially owned by him (other than shares of Common Stock held of record by a trustee
in a Goldman Sachs Compensation Plan or the Employees  Profit Sharing Plan) shall, as
determined by the Shareholders  Committee from time to time, be held either in a
brokerage account with a Subsidiary in his name or in the custody of a custodian (and
registered in the

6 

name of a nominee for such Covered Person). If shares of Common Stock are required
to be held in the custody of a custodian as provided in this Section 2.2(a), each
Covered Person agrees (i) to assign, endorse and register for transfer into such nominee
name or deliver to such custodian any such shares of Common Stock which are not so
registered or so held, as the case may be, and (ii) that the form of the custody
agreement and the identity of the custodian and nominee must be satisfactory in form and
substance to the Shareholders  Committee and GS Inc.

(b) For such time as shares of Common Stock are required to be held in the custody
of a custodian in accordance with Section 2.2(a), whenever the nominee holder shall
receive any dividend or other distribution upon any shares of Common Stock other than in
shares of Common Stock, the Shareholders  Committee will give or cause to be given
notice or direction to the applicable nominee and/or custodian referred to in paragraph
(a) to permit the prompt distribution of such dividend or distribution to the beneficial
owner of such shares of Common Stock, net of any tax withholding amounts required to be
withheld by the nominee, unless the distribution of such dividend or distribution is
restricted by the terms of another agreement between the Covered Person and the Company
known to the Shareholders  Committee.

(c) Each Covered Person agrees and consents to the entry of stop transfer orders
against the transfer of shares of Common Stock subject to Transfer Restrictions except
in compliance with this Agreement.

(d) The Shareholders  Committee (or any person authorized thereby) shall develop
procedures for releasing from the Transfer Restrictions all shares of Common Stock of
each Covered Person who ceases to be a Covered Person.

ARTICLE III 
REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES OF THE PARTIES 

Each Covered Person severally represents and warrants for himself that:

(a) Such Covered Person has (and, with respect to shares of Common Stock to be
acquired, will have) good, valid and marketable title to the shares of Common Stock subject
to the General Transfer Restrictions set forth in Section 2.1(a) (or, with respect to
Designated Senior Officers, subject to the Special Transfer Restrictions set forth in
Section 2.1(b)), free and clear of any pledge, lien, security interest, charge, claim,
equity or encumbrance of any kind, other than pursuant to this Agreement, an agreement with
the Company by which such Covered Person is bound and to which the shares of Common Stock
are subject or as permitted by the policies of GS Inc. in effect from time to time;

7 

(b) Such Covered Person has (and, with respect to shares of Common Stock to be
acquired, will have) the right to vote pursuant to Section 4.1 of this Agreement all shares
of Common Stock of which the Covered Person is the Sole Beneficial Owner; and

(c) (if the Covered Person is other than a natural person, with respect to subsections
(i) through (x), and if the Covered Person is a natural person, with respect to subsections
(iv) through (x) only):

(i) 
       
     such Covered Person is duly organized and validly
existing in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of such
Covered Person s formation; 

(ii) 
       
     such Covered Person has full right, power and
authority to enter into and perform this Agreement; 

(iii) 
       
     the execution and delivery of this Agreement and
the performance of the transactions contemplated herein have been duly
authorized, and no further proceedings on the part of such Covered
Person are necessary to authorize the execution, delivery and
performance of this Agreement; and this Agreement has been duly executed
by such Covered Person; 

(iv) 
       
     the person signing this Agreement on behalf of
such Covered Person has been duly authorized by such Covered Person to
do so; 

(v) 
       
     this Agreement constitutes the legal, valid and
binding obligation of such Covered Person, enforceable against such
Covered Person in accordance with its terms (subject to bankruptcy,
insolvency, fraudulent transfer, reorganization, moratorium and similar
laws of general applicability relating to or affecting creditors  rights
and to general equity principles); 

(vi) 
       
     neither the execution and delivery of this
Agreement by such Covered Person nor the consummation of the
transactions contemplated herein conflicts with or results in a breach
of any of the terms, conditions or provisions of any agreement or
instrument to which such Covered Person is a party or by which the
assets of such Covered Person are bound (including without limitation
the organizational documents of such Covered Person, if such Covered
Person is other than a natural person), or constitutes a default under
any of the foregoing, or violates any law or regulation; 

8 

(vii) 
       
     such Covered Person has obtained all
authorizations, consents, approvals and clearances of all courts,
governmental agencies and authorities, and any other person, if any
(including the spouse of such Covered Person with respect to the
interest of such spouse in the shares of Common Stock of such Covered
Person if the consent of such spouse is required), required to permit
such Covered Person to enter into this Agreement and to consummate the
transactions contemplated herein; 

(viii) 
       
     there are no actions, suits or proceedings pending, or, to the
knowledge of such Covered Person, threatened against or affecting such
Covered Person or such Covered Person s assets in any court or before or
by any federal, state, municipal or other governmental department,
commission, board, bureau, agency or instrumentality which, if adversely
determined, would impair the ability of such Covered Person to perform
this Agreement; 

(ix) 
       
     the performance of this Agreement will not
violate any order, writ, injunction, decree or demand of any court or
federal, state, municipal or other governmental department, commission,
board, bureau, agency or instrumentality to which such Covered Person is
subject; and 

(x) 
       
     no statement, representation or warranty made by
such Covered Person in this Agreement, nor any information provided by
such Covered Person for inclusion in a report filed pursuant to Section
6.3 hereof or in a registration statement filed by GS Inc. contains or
will contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omits or will
omit to state a material fact necessary in order to make the statements,
representations or warranties contained herein or information provided
therein not misleading. 

Each Covered Person severally agrees for himself that the foregoing provision of this Article
III shall be a continuing representation and covenant by him during the period that he shall be a
Covered Person, and he shall take all actions as shall from time to time be necessary to cure any
breach or violation and to obtain any authorizations, consents, approvals and clearances in order
that such representations shall be true and correct during that period.

9 

ARTICLE IV 
VOTING AGREEMENT 

Section 4.1  Preliminary Vote of Covered Persons; Voting Procedures .

(a) Prior to any vote of the stockholders of GS Inc., there shall be a separate,
preliminary vote, on each matter upon which a stockholder vote is proposed to be taken
(each, a   Preliminary Vote  ), of all of the shares of Common Stock of which a
Covered Person is the Sole Beneficial Owner (excluding shares of Common Stock held by the
trust underlying the Employees  Profit Sharing Plan) and the shares of Common Stock held by
the trust underlying a Goldman Sachs Compensation Plan and allocated to a Covered Person
(collectively, the   Voting Shares  ).

(b) Other than in elections of directors, every Voting Share shall be voted in
accordance with the vote of the majority of the votes cast on the matter in question by the
Voting Shares in the Preliminary Vote.

(c) In elections of directors, every Voting Share shall be voted in favor of the
election of those persons, equal in number to the number of such positions to be filled,
receiving the highest numbers of votes cast by the Voting Shares in the Preliminary Vote.

Section 4.2  Irrevocable Proxy and Power of Attorney .

(a) By his signature hereto, each Covered Person hereby gives the Shareholders 
Committee, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, an irrevocable proxy to
vote or otherwise act with respect to all of the Covered Person s Voting Shares as of
the relevant record date or other date used for purposes of determining holders of
Common Stock entitled to vote or take any action, as fully, to the same extent and with
the same effect as such Covered Person might or could do under any applicable laws or
regulations governing the rights and powers of stockholders of a Delaware corporation,
as follows:

(i) 
       
     such proxy shall be voted in connection with such
matters as are the subject of a Preliminary Vote as provided in this
Agreement in accordance with such Preliminary Vote; 

(ii) 
       
     the holder of such proxy shall be authorized to
vote on such other matters as may come before a meeting of stockholders
of GS Inc. or any adjournment thereof and as are related, directly or
indirectly, to the matter which was the subject of the Preliminary Vote
as the holder of such proxy sees fit in 

10 

his discretion but in a manner consistent with the Preliminary Vote;
and 

(iii) 
       
     the holder of such proxy shall be authorized to
vote on such other matters as may come before a meeting of stockholders
of GS Inc. or any adjournment thereof (including matters related to
adjournment thereof) as the holder of such proxy sees fit in his
discretion but not to cast any vote under this clause (iii) which is
inconsistent with the Preliminary Vote or which would achieve an outcome
that would frustrate the intent of the Preliminary Vote. Each Covered
Person hereby affirms that this proxy is given as a term of this
Agreement and as such is coupled with an interest and is irrevocable. 

It is further understood and agreed by each Covered Person that this proxy may be exercised
by the holder of such proxy with respect to all Voting Shares of such Covered Person for
the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on the earlier of (a) the date this
Agreement shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 7.1(a) hereof or, (b) in the case
of a Covered Person, Section 7.1(b) hereof.

(b) By his signature hereto, each Covered Person appoints the Shareholders 
Committee, with full power of substitution and resubstitution, his true and lawful
attorney-in-fact to direct, in accordance with the provisions of this Article IV, the
voting of any Voting Shares held of record by any other person but beneficially owned by
such Covered Person (including Voting Shares held by the trust underlying any Goldman
Sachs Compensation Plan and allocated to such Covered Person), granting to such
attorneys, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every
act and thing whatsoever that such attorney or attorneys may deem necessary, advisable
or appropriate to carry out fully the intent of Section 4.1 and Section 4.2(a) as such
Covered Person might or could do personally, hereby ratifying and confirming all acts
and things that such attorney or attorneys may do or cause to be done by virtue of this
power of attorney. It is understood and agreed by each Covered Person that this
appointment, empowerment and authorization may be exercised by the aforementioned
persons with respect to all Voting Shares of such Covered Person, and held of record by
another person, for the period beginning on the Effective Date and ending on (a) the
earlier of the date this Agreement shall have been terminated pursuant to Section 7.1(a)
hereof or, (b) in the case of a Covered Person, Section 7.1(b) hereof.

11 

ARTICLE V 
SHAREHOLDERS  COMMITTEE 

Section 5.1  Membership.  The Shareholders  Committee shall at all times consist of all
of those individuals who are both Covered Persons and members of the Board of Directors of GS Inc.
and who agree to serve as members of the Shareholders  Committee.

Section 5.2  Additional Members . If there are less than three individuals who are both
Covered Persons and members of the Board of Directors of GS Inc. and who agree to serve as members
of the Shareholders  Committee, the Shareholders  Committee shall consist of each such individual
plus such additional individuals who are Covered Persons and who are selected pursuant to
procedures established by the Shareholders  Committee as shall assure a Shareholders  Committee of
not less than three members who are Covered Persons.

Section 5.3  Determinations of and Actions by the Shareholders  Committee .

(a) All determinations necessary or advisable under this Agreement (including
determinations of beneficial ownership) shall be made by the Shareholders  Committee,
whose determinations shall be final and binding. The Shareholders  Committee s
determinations under this Agreement and actions (including waivers) hereunder need not
be uniform and may be made selectively among Covered Persons (whether or not such
Covered Persons are similarly situated).

(b) Each Covered Person recognizes and agrees that the members of the Shareholders 
Committee in acting hereunder shall at all times be acting in their capacities as
members of the Shareholders  Committee and not as directors or officers of the Company
and in so acting or failing to act shall not have any fiduciary duties to the Covered
Persons as a member of the Shareholders  Committee by virtue of the fact that one or
more of such members may also be serving as a director or officer of the Company or
otherwise.

(c) The Shareholders  Committee shall act through a majority vote of its members
and such actions may be taken in person at a meeting (in person or telephonically) or by
a written instrument signed by all of the members.

Section 5.4  Certain Obligations of the Shareholders  Committee . The Shareholders 
Committee shall be obligated (a) to attend as proxy, or cause a person designated by it and acting
as lawful proxy to attend as proxy, each meeting of the stockholders of GS Inc. and to vote or to
cause such designee to vote the Voting Shares over which it has the power to vote in accordance
with the results of the Preliminary Vote
as set forth in Section 4.1, and (b) to develop procedures governing Preliminary Votes and
other votes and actions to be taken pursuant to this Agreement.

12 

ARTICLE VI 
OTHER AGREEMENTS OF THE PARTIES 

Section 6.1  Standstill Provisions . Each Covered Person agrees that such Covered
Person shall not, directly or indirectly, alone or in concert with any other person:

(a) make, or in any way participate in, any  solicitation  of  proxies  (as such terms
are defined in Exchange Act Rule 14a-1) relating to any securities of the Company to or
with any Restricted Person;

(b) deposit any shares of Common Stock in a voting trust or subject any shares of
Common Stock to any voting agreement or arrangement that includes as a party any Restricted
Person;

(c) form, join or in any way participate in a group (as contemplated by Exchange Act
Rule 13d-5(b)) with respect to any securities of the Company (or any securities the
ownership of which would make the owner thereof a beneficial owner of securities of the
Company (for this purpose as determined by Exchange Act Rule 13d-3 and Exchange Act Rule
13d-5)) that includes as a party any Restricted Person;

(d) make any announcement subject to Exchange Act Rule 14a-1(l)(2)(iv) to any
Restricted Person;

(e) initiate or propose any  shareholder proposal  subject to Exchange Act Rule 14a-8;

(f) together with any Restricted Person, make any offer or proposal to acquire any
securities or assets of GS Inc. or any of its Subsidiaries or solicit or propose to effect
or negotiate any form of business combination, restructuring, recapitalization or other
extraordinary transaction involving, or any change in control of, GS Inc., its Subsidiaries
or any of their respective securities or assets;

(g) together with any Restricted Person, seek the removal of any directors or a change
in the composition or size of the board of directors of GS Inc.;

(h) together with any Restricted Person, in any way participate in a call for any
special meeting of the stockholders of GS Inc.; or

(i) assist, advise or encourage any person with respect to, or seek to do, any of the
foregoing.

13 

Section 6.2  Expenses .

(a) GS Inc. shall be responsible for all expenses of the members of the
Shareholders  Committee incurred in the operation and administration of this Agreement,
including expenses of proxy solicitation for and tabulation of the Preliminary Vote,
expenses incurred in preparing appropriate filings and correspondence with the SEC,
lawyers , accountants , agents , consultants , experts , investment banking and other
professionals  fees, expenses incurred in enforcing the provisions of this Agreement,
expenses incurred in maintaining any necessary or appropriate books and records relating
to this Agreement and expenses incurred in the preparation of amendments to and waivers
of provisions of this Agreement.

(b) Each Covered Person shall be responsible for all expenses incurred by him in
connection with compliance with his obligations under this Agreement, including expenses
incurred by the Shareholders  Committee or GS Inc. in enforcing the provisions of this
Agreement relating to such obligations.

Section 6.3  Filing of Schedule 13D or 13G .

(a) In the event that a Covered Person is required to file a report of beneficial
ownership on Schedule 13D or 13G with respect to the shares of Common Stock beneficially
owned by him (for this purpose as determined by Exchange Act Rule 13d-3 and Exchange Act
Rule 13d-5), such Covered Person agrees that, unless otherwise directed by the
Shareholders  Committee, he will not file a separate such report, but will file a report
together with the other Covered Persons, containing the information required by the
Exchange Act, and he understands and agrees that such report shall be filed on his
behalf by the Shareholders  Committee, any member thereof or any person authorized
thereby. Such Covered Person shall cooperate fully with the other Covered Persons and
the Shareholders  Committee to achieve the timely filing of any such report and any
amendments thereto as may be required, and such Covered Person agrees that any
information concerning him which he furnishes in connection with the preparation and
filing of such report will be complete and accurate.

(b) By his signature hereto, each Covered Person appoints the Shareholders 
Committee and each member thereof, with full power of substitution and resubstitution,
his true and lawful attorney-in-fact to execute such reports and any and all amendments
thereto and to file such reports with all exhibits thereto and other documents in
connection therewith with the SEC, granting to such attorneys, and each of them, full
power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing whatsoever that such
attorney or attorneys may deem necessary, advisable or appropriate to carry out fully
the

14 

intent of this Section 6.3 as such Covered Person might or could do personally,
hereby ratifying and confirming all acts and things that such attorney or attorneys may
do or cause to be done by virtue of this power of attorney. Each Covered Person hereby
further designates such attorneys as such Covered Person s agents authorized to receive
notices and communications with respect to such reports and any amendments thereto. It
is understood and agreed by each Covered Person that this appointment, empowerment and
authorization may be exercised by the aforementioned persons for the period beginning on
May 7, 1999 and ending on the date such Covered Person is no longer subject to the
provisions of this Agreement (and shall extend thereafter for such time as is required
to reflect, and only to reflect, that such Covered Person is no longer a party to this
Agreement).

Section 6.4  Adjustment upon Changes in Capitalization; Adjustments upon Changes of
Control; Representatives, Successors and Assigns .

(a) In the event of any change in the outstanding Common Stock by reason of stock
dividends, stock splits, reverse stock splits, spin-offs, split-ups, recapitalizations,
combinations, exchanges of shares and the like, the term   Common Stock   shall
refer to and include the securities received or resulting therefrom, but only to the
extent such securities are received in exchange for or in respect of Common Stock. Upon
the occurrence of any event described in the immediately preceding sentence, the
Shareholders  Committee shall make such adjustments to or interpretations of the
restrictions of Section 2.1 (and, if it so determines, any other provisions hereof) as
it shall deem necessary, advisable or appropriate or desirable to carry out the intent
of such provisions. If the Shareholders  Committee deems it necessary, advisable or
appropriate, any such adjustments may take effect from the record date, the  when issued
trading date , the  ex dividend date  or another appropriate date.

(b) In the event of any business combination, restructuring, recapitalization or
other extraordinary transaction involving GS Inc., its Subsidiaries or any of their
respective securities or assets as a result of which the Covered Persons shall hold
voting securities of a person other than GS Inc., the Covered Persons agree that this
Agreement shall also continue in full force and effect with respect to such voting
securities of such other person formerly representing or distributed in respect of
Common Stock, and the terms  Common Stock,   Covered Shares  and  Voting Shares,  and
 GS Inc.  and  Company,  shall refer to such voting securities formerly representing or
distributed in respect of shares of Common Stock of GS Inc. and such other person,
respectively. Upon the occurrence of any event described in the immediately preceding
sentence, the Shareholders  Committee shall make such adjustments to or interpretations
of the restrictions of Section 2.1 (and, if it so determines, any other provisions
hereof) as it shall deem necessary, advisable or appropriate to carry out the intent of
such provisions.

15 

If the Shareholders  Committee deems it necessary, advisable or appropriate, any
such adjustments may take effect from the record date or another appropriate date.

(c) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the respective
legal representatives, successors and assigns of the Covered Persons (and GS Inc. in the
event of a transaction described in Section 6.4(b) hereof);  provided, however , that a
Covered Person may not assign this Agreement or any of his rights or obligations
hereunder without the prior written consent of GS Inc., and any assignment without such
consent by a Covered Person shall be void; and provided further that no assignment of
this Agreement by GS Inc. or to a successor of GS Inc. (by operation of law or
otherwise) shall be valid unless such assignment is made to a person which succeeds to
the business of GS Inc. substantially as an entirety.

Section 6.5  Further Assurances . Each Covered Person agrees to execute such additional
documents and take such further action as may be reasonably necessary to effect the provisions of
this Agreement.

Section 6.6  Promotions to Designated Senior Officer . Each Participating Managing
Director who is a party to this Agreement agrees to be bound by the Special Transfer Restrictions
in place at such time as he may be promoted to Designated Senior Officer, notwithstanding that such
Special Transfer Restrictions could be materially different than the Special Transfer Restrictions
in place on the later of the Effective Date or such person s Participation Date.

ARTICLE VII 
MISCELLANEOUS 

Section 7.1  Term of the Agreement; Termination of Certain Provisions .

(a) The term of this Agreement shall continue until the first to occur of January
1, 2050 and such time as this Agreement is terminated by the affirmative vote of not
less than 66 2/3% of the outstanding Covered Shares.

(b) Unless this Agreement is previously terminated pursuant to Section 7.1(a)
hereof, (i) any Covered Person who ceases to be a Covered Person for any reason other
than death shall no longer be bound by the provisions of this Agreement (other than
Sections 5.3, 6.2, 6.3, 6.5, 7.4, 7.5, 7.6, 7.8 and 7.10 (the   Continuing
Provisions  )), and such Covered Person s name shall be removed from Appendix A to
this Agreement, and (ii) any Designated Senior Officer who ceases to hold a Designated
Title shall no longer be bound by the provisions of Section 2.1(b) hereof.

16 

(c) Unless this Agreement is theretofore terminated pursuant to Section 7.1(a)
hereof, the estate of any Covered Person who ceases to be a Covered Person by reason of
death shall from and after the date of such death be bound only by the Continuing
Provisions, and such Covered Person s name shall be removed from Appendix A to this
Agreement.

Section 7.2  Amendments .

(a) Except as provided in this Section 7.2, provisions of this Agreement may be
amended only by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding
Covered Shares.

(b) This Section 7.2(b), Section 7.1(a) and Section 7.3(a)(i) may be amended only
by the affirmative vote of the holders of 66 2/3% of the outstanding Covered Shares.
Any amendment of any other provision of this Agreement that would have the effect, in
connection with a tender or exchange offer by any person other than the Company as to
which the Board of Directors of GS Inc. is recommending rejection, of permitting
transfers which would not be permitted by the terms of this Agreement as then in effect
shall also require the affirmative vote of the holders of 66 2/3% of the outstanding
Covered Shares.

(c) This Section 7.2(c), Article V, Section 7.3(b) and any other provision the
amendment (or addition) of which has the effect of materially changing the rights or
obligations of the Shareholders  Committee hereunder may be amended (or added) either
(i) with the approval of the Shareholders  Committee and the affirmative vote of the
holders of a majority of the Covered Shares or (ii) by the affirmative vote of the
holders of 66 2/3% of the outstanding Covered Shares.

(d) In addition to any other vote or approval that may be required under this
Section 7.2, (i) any amendment to the General Transfer Restrictions that would make such
General Transfer Restrictions materially more onerous to a Covered Person will not be
enforceable against that Covered Person unless that Covered Person has consented to such
amendment and (ii) any amendment to the Special Transfer Restrictions that would make
such Special Transfer Restrictions materially more onerous to a current Designated
Senior Officer will not be enforceable against that Designated Senior Officer unless
that Designated Senior Officer has consented to such amendment.

(e) In addition to any other vote or approval that may be required under this
Section 7.2, any amendment of this Agreement that has the effect of changing the
obligations of GS Inc. hereunder to make such obligations materially more onerous to GS
Inc. shall require the approval of GS Inc.

17 

(f) Each Covered Person understands that it is intended that each Participating
Managing Director of the Company will be a Covered Person under this Agreement or will
become a Covered Person upon his appointment to such position, and each Covered Person
further understands that from time to time certain other persons may become Covered
Persons and certain Covered Persons will cease to be bound by provisions of this
Agreement pursuant to the terms hereof when they cease to be Participating Managing
Directors. Accordingly, this Agreement may be amended by action of the Shareholders 
Committee from time to time and without the approval of any other person, but solely for
the purposes of (i) adding to Appendix A such persons as shall be made party to this
Agreement pursuant to the terms hereof, such addition to be effective as of the time of
such action or appointment, and (ii) removing from Appendix A such persons as shall
cease to be bound by the provisions of this Agreement pursuant to Sections 7.1(b) or (c)
hereof, which additions and removals shall be given effect from time to time by
appropriate changes to Appendix A.

(g) Each Covered Person agrees that the Shareholders  Committee, without the
approval of any other person, may designate positions that may be held by senior
executives of GS Inc. from time to time (each, a   Designated Title  ) that will
subject such senior executives to the Special Transfer Restrictions pursuant to Section
2.1(b) hereof.

(h) Section 2.1 may be amended with the approval of the Shareholders  Committee and
GS Inc. without requiring the affirmative vote of the outstanding Covered Shares to
decrease either or both of the percentages stated therein,  provided, however , that in no
event shall the percentage applicable to the Special Transfer Restrictions in Section
2.1(b) ever be less than the percentage applicable to the General Transfer Restrictions
in Section 2.1(a).

Section 7.3  Waivers . The Transfer Restrictions and the other provisions of this
Agreement may be waived only as provided in this Section 7.3.

(a) The holders of the outstanding Covered Shares may waive the Transfer
Restrictions and the other provisions of this Agreement without the consent of any other
person as follows:

(i) 
       
     The Transfer Restrictions may be waived, in
connection with any tender or exchange offer by any person other than
the Company as to which the Board of Directors of GS Inc. is
recommending rejection at the time of such waiver, only by the
affirmative vote of the holders of 66 2/3% of the outstanding Covered
Shares; 

(ii) 
       
     The Transfer Restrictions may be waived, in
connection with any tender or exchange offer by any person other than
the 

18 

Company as to which the Board of Directors of GS Inc. is
recommending acceptance or is not making any recommendation with
respect to acceptance at the time of such waiver, only by the
affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding
Covered Shares; 

(iii) 
       
     The Transfer Restrictions may be waived, in
connection with any tender or exchange offer by the Company, by the
affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the outstanding Covered
Shares; and 

(iv) 
       
     In all circumstances other than those set forth
in Sections 7.2 or 7.3(a)(i), (ii) and (iii), the provisions of this
Agreement may be waived only by the affirmative vote of the holders of a
majority of the outstanding Covered Shares; provided, however, that the
holders of the outstanding Covered Shares may not waive the provisions
of this Agreement in the circumstances set forth in Section 7.3(b). 

(b) The Shareholders  Committee may waive the Transfer Restrictions and the other
provisions of this Agreement without the consent of any other person to permit:

(i) 
       
     Covered Persons to participate as sellers
in underwritten public offerings of, and stock repurchase programs
and tender or exchange offers by GS Inc. for, Common Stock; 

(ii) 
       
     transfers of Covered Shares to
organizations described in Section 501(c)(3) of the Code, including
gifts to  private foundations  subject to the requirements of Section
509 of the Code; 

(iii) 
       
     transfers of Covered Shares held in
employee benefit plans of the Company either generally or in
particular situations; and 

(iv) 
       
     particular Covered Persons or all Covered
Persons to transfer Covered Shares in particular situations (such as
transfers to family members, partnerships or trusts), but not
generally. 

(c) In connection with any waiver granted under this Agreement, the Shareholders 
Committee or the holders of the percentage of Covered Shares required for the waiver, as
the case may be, may impose such conditions as they determine on the granting of such
waivers.

19 

(d) The failure of the Company or the Shareholders  Committee at any time or times
to require performance of any provision of this Agreement shall in no manner affect the
rights at a later time to enforce the same. No waiver by the Company or the
Shareholders  Committee of the breach of any term contained in this Agreement, whether
by conduct or otherwise, in any one or more instances, shall be deemed to be or
construed as a further or continuing waiver of any such breach or the breach of any
other term of this Agreement.

Section 7.4   GOVERNING LAW   . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN
ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF
LAWS. 

Section 7.5  Resolution of Disputes .

(a) The Shareholders  Committee shall have the sole and exclusive power to enforce
the provisions of this Agreement. The Shareholders  Committee may in its sole
discretion request GS Inc. to conduct such enforcement, and GS Inc. agrees to conduct
such enforcement as requested and directed by the Shareholders  Committee.

(b) Without diminishing the finality and conclusive effect of any determination by
the Shareholders  Committee of any matter under this Agreement (and subject to the
provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) hereof), any dispute, controversy or claim arising
out of or relating to or concerning the provisions of this Agreement shall be finally
settled by arbitration in New York City before, and in accordance with the rules then
obtaining of, the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. (  NYSE  ), or if the NYSE
declines to arbitrate the matter, the American Arbitration Association (  AAA  )
in accordance with the commercial arbitration rules of the AAA.

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of paragraph (b), and in addition to its right
to submit any dispute or controversy to arbitration, the Shareholders  Committee may
bring, or may cause GS Inc. to bring, on behalf of the Shareholders  Committee or on
behalf of one or more Covered Persons, an action or special proceeding in a state or
federal court of competent jurisdiction sitting in the State of Delaware, whether or not
an arbitration proceeding has theretofore been or is ever initiated, for the purpose of
temporarily, preliminarily or permanently enforcing the provisions of this Agreement
and, for the purposes of this paragraph (c), each Covered Person (i) expressly consents
to the application of paragraph (d) to any such action or proceeding, (ii) agrees that
proof shall not be required that monetary damages for breach of the provisions of this
Agreement would be difficult to calculate and that remedies at law would be inadequate
and (iii) irrevocably appoints each General Counsel of GS Inc., c/o The Corporation
Trust Company,

20 

Corporation Trust Center, 1209 Orange Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19801 as such
Covered Person s agent for service of process in connection with any such action or
proceeding, who shall promptly advise such Covered Person of any such service of
process.

(d) Each Covered Person hereby irrevocably submits to the exclusive jurisdiction of
any state or federal court located in the State of Delaware over any suit, action or
proceeding arising out of or relating to or concerning this Agreement that is not
otherwise arbitrated according to the provisions of paragraph (b) hereof. This includes
any suit, action or proceeding to compel arbitration or to enforce an arbitration award.
The parties acknowledge that the forum designated by this paragraph (d) has a
reasonable relation to this Agreement, and to the parties  relationship with one
another. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall preclude the Shareholders 
Committee or GS Inc. from bringing any action or proceeding in any other court for the
purpose of enforcing the provisions of this Section 7.5.

The agreement of the parties as to forum is independent of the law that may be applied
in the action, and they each agree to such forum even if the forum may under applicable law
choose to apply non-forum law. The parties hereby waive, to the fullest extent permitted
by applicable law, any objection which they now or hereafter may have to personal
jurisdiction or to the laying of venue of any such suit, action or proceeding brought in
any court referred to in paragraph (d). The parties undertake not to commence any action
arising out of or relating to or concerning this Agreement in any forum other than a forum
described in paragraph (d). The parties agree that, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law, a final and non-appealable judgment in any such suit, action or proceeding
in any such court shall be conclusive and binding upon the parties.

Section 7.6  Relationship of Parties . The terms of this Agreement are intended not to
create a separate entity for United States federal income tax purposes, and nothing in this
Agreement shall be read to create any partnership, joint venture or separate entity among the
parties or to create any trust or other fiduciary relationship between them.

Section 7.7  Notices .

(a) Any communication, demand or notice to be given hereunder will be duly given
(and shall be deemed to be received) when delivered in writing by hand or first class
mail or by telecopy to a party at its address as indicated below:

If to a Covered Person,

c/o The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 
200 West Street

21 

15 th  Floor 
New York, New York 10282-2198 
Fax: (212) 902-3876 
Attention: General Counsel;

If to the Shareholders  Committee, at

Shareholders  Committee under the Shareholders  Agreement, 
c/o The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 
200 West Street 
15 th  Floor 
New York, New York 10282-2198 
Fax: (212) 902-3876 
Attention: General Counsel;

and

If to GS Inc., at

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 
200 West Street 
15 th  Floor 
New York, New York 10282-2198 
Fax: (212) 902-3876 
Attention: General Counsel.

GS Inc. shall be responsible for notifying each Covered Person of the receipt of a
communication, demand or notice under this Agreement relevant to such Covered Person at the
address of such Covered Person then in the records of GS Inc. (and each Covered Person
shall notify GS Inc. of any change in such address for communications, demands and
notices).

(b) Unless otherwise provided to the contrary herein, any notice which is required
to be given in writing pursuant to the terms of this Agreement may be given by telecopy.

Section 7.8  Severability . If any provision of this Agreement is finally held to be
invalid, illegal or unenforceable, (a) the remaining terms and provisions hereof shall be
unimpaired and (b) the invalid or unenforceable term or provision shall be deemed replaced by a
term or provision that is valid and enforceable and that comes closest to expressing the intention
of the invalid or unenforceable term or provision.

Section 7.9  Right to Determine Tender Confidentially . In connection with any tender
or exchange offer for all or any portion of the outstanding Common Stock, subject to compliance
with all applicable restrictions on transfer in this Agreement or any other agreement with GS Inc.,
each Covered Person will have the right

22 

to determine confidentially whether such Covered Person s Covered Shares will be tendered in
such tender or exchange offer.

Section 7.10  No Third-Party Rights . Nothing expressed or referred to in this
Agreement will be construed to give any person other than the parties to this Agreement any legal
or equitable right, remedy, or claim under or with respect to this Agreement or any provision of
this Agreement. This Agreement and all of its provisions and conditions are for the sole and
exclusive benefit of the parties to this Agreement and their successors and assigns.

Section 7.11  Section Headings . The headings of sections in this Agreement are
provided for convenience only and will not affect its construction or interpretation.

Section 7.12  Execution in Counterparts . This Agreement may be executed in any number
of counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all such counterparts shall
together constitute but one and the same instrument.

23 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have duly executed or caused to be duly executed this
Agreement.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

By: 
       
     /s/ Esta E. Stecher 

Name: Esta E. Stecher

Title: Executive Vice President and General Counsel 

Dated:  February 25, 2010 

24 

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.30>
 3
 y81914exv10w30.htm
 EX-10.30: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (NOT FULLY VESTED)

exv10w30 

Exhibit 10.30 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
___ YEAR-END RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the    Year-End award (this
 Award ) of RSUs ( Year-End RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which
are incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are
not defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References
in this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of Year-End RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in
the Award Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or
cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share
of Common Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such
delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder
of GS Inc. In addition, as set forth in your Award Statement, some or all of any Shares delivered
pursuant to your Year-End RSUs may be subject to transfer restrictions following the Delivery Date
as described in Paragraph 3(b)(iv) below.   This Award is conditioned on your executing the
related signature card and returning it to the address designated on the signature card and/or by
the method designated on the signature card by the date specified, and is subject to all terms,
conditions and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the
arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the
related signature card (which, among other things, opens the custody account referred to in
paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so already), you will have confirmed your acceptance
of all of the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of Year-End
RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to receive delivery
of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Year-End RSUs that are or become Vested, all other terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested Year-End RSUs, and
failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result
of which, no Shares underlying such Vested Year-End RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to the number or percentage of your Year-End RSUs shall be
the date specified next to such number or percentage of Year-End RSUs on your Award Statement. In
accordance with Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-3(d), the Firm may accelerate delivery
to a date that is up to 30 days before the Delivery Date specified on the Award Statement;
provided, however, that in no event shall you be permitted to designate, directly or indirectly,
the taxable year of the delivery.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15
and 16, in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than
thirty (30) Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery
of Shares is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then
Outstanding Year-End RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred
(which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry
credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of
the Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all
or any portion of your Year-End RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or
other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include
such deliveries of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv) and Paragraphs 3(c), 7, and 9(g), until the
date specified on your Award Statement as the  Transferability Date:  (A) on each Delivery Date (or
any other date delivery of Shares is called for hereunder), 50% of gross delivered Shares
underlying the number or percentage of Year-End RSUs specified next to such Delivery Date on your
Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) will be subject to the  Transfer
Restrictions  (as hereinafter defined) (such Shares,  Shares at Risk ) and shall not be permitted
to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated, fractionalized, hedged or
otherwise disposed of (including through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether
voluntarily or involuntarily by you (collectively referred to as the  Transfer Restrictions ) and
any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge
or other disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void; and (B) if and to the
extent your Shares at Risk are certificated, the Certificates representing the Shares at Risk are
subject to the restrictions in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv), and GS Inc. shall advise its transfer agent
to place a stop order against your Shares at Risk. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the
applicable withholding rate at delivery of Shares underlying your Year-End RSUs equals or exceeds
50%, all of the Shares delivered to you after the application of the withholding will be Shares at
Risk. Within 30 Business Days after the Transferability Date (or any other date described herein
on which the Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be taken,
such steps as may be necessary to remove the Transfer Restrictions. The Committee may adopt
procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End RSUs may transfer some or all of
their Shares at Risk (which shall continue to be subject to the Transfer Restrictions until the
Transferability Date) through a gift for no consideration to any immediate family member (as
determined pursuant to the procedures) or a trust in which the recipient and/or the recipient s
immediate family members in the aggregate have 100% of the beneficial interest (as determined
pursuant to the procedures).

(v) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares (including Shares at Risk) may be
made initially into an escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by

-2- 

the Firm and may be held in that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received
such documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee has determined that any other
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been
satisfied. By accepting your Year-End RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate
or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such
terms and conditions (which may include, without limitation, your executing any documents related
to, and your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow account) as the Firm may deem
necessary or appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the
Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares
while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and
shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date and/or the Transferability Date, the Shares
underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your
estate and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply as soon as practicable after the date of
death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the
Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to
specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Year-End RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares; Termination of
Shares at Risk .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall terminate, such
Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 7, and 9(g),
if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively employed with
the Firm, any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Transferability Date as
provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(c), 4(d) and 4(f), and subject to
Paragraphs 6(b) and 6(c), your rights in respect of the Year-End RSUs that are Vested on the Date
of Grant shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no
Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the earlier of December 31,    or the
date on which your Year-End RSUs become deliverable following a Change in Control in accordance
with Paragraph 7 hereof, you engage in  Competition.  For purposes of this Award Agreement,
 Competition  means that you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or
profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity
(including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant,
agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs (whether or not Vested) immediately
shall terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered
in respect thereof if:

-3- 

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding Year-End RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (A) any Firm employee or
consultant (1) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (2) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (B) any Managing Director of the Firm.

(d) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Shares at Risk immediately shall terminate and such Shares at Risk
shall be cancelled if:

(i) any event constituting Cause has occurred;

-4- 

(ii) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(iii) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement; or

(iv) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Shares at Risk.

(e) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any
amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an
agreement referred to in Paragraph 4(c)(v) and 4(d)(ii), regardless of whether such obligation
arises under a written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting
Cause referred to in Paragraphs 4(c)(ii)) and 4(d)(i).

(f) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision in
Paragraph 4(c) or Paragraph 4(d), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee
determines that, during the Firm s    fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or
marketing of any product or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in
the purchase or sale of any security or other property, in any case without appropriate
consideration of the risk to the Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example,
where you have improperly analyzed such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise
concerns about such risk) and, as a result of such action or omission, the Committee determines
there has been, or reasonably could be expected to be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your
business unit or the broader financial system, your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs awarded
as part of this Award (whether or not Vested) immediately shall terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall
cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof (and any Shares,
Dividend Equivalents, dividends on Shares at Risk or other amounts paid or delivered to you in
respect of this Award shall be subject to repayment in accordance with Paragraph 5) and any Shares
at Risk shall be cancelled.

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires
Award recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that
all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied)
shall apply to this Award.

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement, Downsizing and Approved Termination for Program
Analysts. 

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined below), the condition set
forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but
that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of
which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply

-5- 

(including any applicable Transfer Restrictions). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in
the Plan or otherwise,  Retirement  means termination of your Employment (other than for Cause) on
or after the Date of Grant at a time when (i) (A) the sum of your age plus years of service with
the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 60 and (B) you
have completed at least ten (10) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in
its sole discretion) or, if earlier, (ii) (A) you have attained age 50 and (B) you have completed
at least 5 (five) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion). Any termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement shall not
affect any applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply
until the Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(c), 4(d) and 4(f), your rights in respect
of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) immediately
shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such
Year-End RSUs, you engage in Competition. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise
determined by the Committee in its discretion, neither this Paragraph 6(b) nor Paragraph 4(b) will
apply to your Outstanding Year-End RSUs if your termination of Employment by reason of Extended
Absence or Retirement is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other
than for Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to
pay any associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No
termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive
termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an  involuntary 
termination of Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End RSUs shall
become Vested) and Paragraph 4(b) shall not apply to your Outstanding Year-End RSUs that are Vested
on the Date of Grant, but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply
(including any applicable Transfer Restrictions). Whether or not your Employment is terminated
solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. No
termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive
termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will be solely by reason of a
 downsizing.  Your termination of Employment by reason of  downsizing  shall not affect any
applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the
Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you are classified by the
Firm as a  program analyst,  and your Employment is terminated without Cause solely by reason of an
 approved termination  with respect to your participation in the program prior to any Vesting Date
specified on your Award Statement, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with
respect to any Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but had not yet become Vested immediately prior
to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested) and
Paragraph 4(b) shall not apply to your Outstanding Year-End RSUs that are Vested on the Date of
Grant, but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply (including any
applicable Transfer Restrictions). Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, for purposes of
this Paragraph 6(d), an  approved termination  shall mean a termination of Employment from the
analyst program where you: (i) successfully complete the analyst program

-6- 

(as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion), which shall include, but not be limited
to, remaining Employed by the Firm through the analyst program completion date specified by the
Firm and (ii) terminate Employment with the Firm immediately after you complete the analyst
program, without any  stay-on  or other agreement or understanding to continue Employment with the
Firm. If you agree to stay with the Firm as an employee after your analyst program ends and then
later terminate Employment, you will not have an  approved termination.  An  approved termination 
shall not affect any applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue
to apply until the Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Award Agreement (except Paragraph 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18
months thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your
Employment for Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs, whether or
not Vested, shall be delivered and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights; Dividends . Each Year-End RSU shall include a Dividend
Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs, at or after
the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the
record date for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an
amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made
in respect of the Share underlying such Outstanding Year-End RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend
Equivalent Right shall be made only with respect to Year-End RSUs that are Outstanding on the
relevant record date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section
2.8.2 of the Plan. You shall be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash dividend
paid by GS, Inc. in respect of your Shares at Risk, or, if the Shares at Risk are held in escrow,
the Firm will direct the transfer/paying agent to distribute the dividends to you in respect of
your Shares at Risk.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
   fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

-7- 

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with your Year-End RSU Award, including without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(c), 4(d) and 4(f), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or Shares
at Risk would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any Year-End RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a
result of which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the case of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and
9(g)(ii) above, any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply, and, at the sole discretion of the
Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares
underlying, your then Outstanding Vested Year-End RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after
the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

-8- 

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment while you
continue to hold outstanding Vested Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk, you may be required to
certify, from time to time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement. You understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of
any changes to your address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are
responsible for obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive
certification materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by
the deadline specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your
outstanding Year-End RSUs and Shares at Risk, as applicable, in accordance with Paragraphs 4(c)(iv)
and 4(d)(iii).

10.  Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares or to remove the Transfer Restrictions under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4
of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding
amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax
equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms
and conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End RSUs may transfer some or all
of their Year-End RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any immediate family member (as
determined pursuant to the procedures) or a trust in which the recipient and/or the recipient s
immediate family members in the aggregate have 100% of the beneficial interest (as determined
pursuant to the procedures).

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

-9- 

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your Year-End RSUs required by this
Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b) and (c)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9 and
the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall occur
by March 15 of the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit such
conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Reg.
1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section 409A, to delay
delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to such later date as may be
permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction
with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your Year-End RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with
respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted
under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of
Employment occurs; provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the
Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier
of the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under
Section 409A) the date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter
date is not during a Window Period, the first

-10- 

trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes of Paragraph 7, references in this Award
Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination of Employment from the Firm (as defined
by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as defined by the Firm in accordance with
Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be paid
to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after
the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding Year-End RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee
receives satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such
delivery or payment shall be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as
reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you
under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

16.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 457A . To the extent the
Committee or the Plan s committee that has been delegated certain authority by the Committee (the
 SIP Committee ) determines that (i) Section 457A of the Code or any guidance promulgated
thereunder ( Section 457A ) requires that, in order to qualify for the short-term deferral
exception from treatment as  deferred compensation  under Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code, the
documents governing an Award must specify that such Award will be delivered within the period set
forth in Section 457(A)(d)(3)(B) of the Code and (ii) all or any portion of this Award is or
becomes subject to Section 457A, this Award Agreement will be deemed to be amended as of the Date
of Grant (as the Committee or the SIP Committee determines necessary or appropriate after
consultation with counsel) to provide that delivery of Year-End RSUs will occur no later than 12
months after the end of the taxable year in which the right to delivery is first no longer subject
to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined under Section 457A); provided, however, that no
action or modification will be permitted to the extent that such action or modification would cause
such Award to fail to satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of
Section 409A or otherwise would result in an additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect
of such Award.

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-11- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

-12- 

</EX-10.30>

<EX-10.31>
 4
 y81914exv10w31.htm
 EX-10.31: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FULLY VESTED)

exv10w31 

Exhibit 10.31 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
          YEAR-END  SUPPLEMENTAL  RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the
          Year-End award (this
 Award ) of RSUs ( Year-End RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which
are incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are
not defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References
in this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award .

(a) The number of Year-End RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award Statement
delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be
delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common
Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc. In
addition, as set forth in your Award Statement, some or all of any Shares delivered pursuant to
your Year-End RSUs may be subject to transfer restrictions following the Delivery Date as described
in Paragraph 3(b)(iv) below.   This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature
card and returning it to the address designated on the signature card and/or by the method
designated on the signature card by the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and
provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and
choice of forum provisions set forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related signature
card (which, among other things, opens the custody account referred to in paragraph 3(   b   )
if you have not done so already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and
conditions of this Award Agreement.  

(b)  The Shares delivered with respect to your Year-End Supplemental RSUs will be subject to
the Goldman Sachs Shareholders  Agreement to which you are a party, as amended from time to time
(the  Shareholders  Agreement ), except those Shares will not be considered  Covered Shares  for
purposes of Section 2.1(a) of the Shareholders  Agreement. 

3.  Vesting and Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(a)  Vesting . All of your Year-End RSUs shall be Vested on the Date of Grant. While
your Year-End RSUs are Vested, and therefore your continued active Employment is not required in
order to receive delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Year-End RSUs, all other terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested Year-End RSUs, and
failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result
of which, no Shares underlying such Year-End RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to the number or percentage of your Year-End RSUs shall be
the date specified next to such number or percentage of Year-End RSUs on your Award Statement. In
accordance with Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-3(d), the Firm may accelerate delivery
to a date that is up to 30 days before the Delivery Date specified on the Award Statement;
provided, however, that in no event shall you be permitted to designate, directly or indirectly,
the taxable year of the delivery.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2(a), 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 15
and 16, in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than
thirty (30) Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery
of Shares is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then
Outstanding Year-End RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred
(which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry
credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of
the Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all
or any portion of your Year-End RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or
other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include
such deliveries of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv) and Paragraphs 3(c), 7, and 9(g), until the
date specified on your Award Statement as the  Transferability Date:  (A) on each Delivery Date (or
any other date delivery of Shares is called for hereunder), 50% of gross delivered Shares
underlying the number or percentage of Year-End RSUs specified next to such Delivery Date on your
Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) will be subject to the  Transfer
Restrictions  (as hereinafter defined) (such Shares,  Shares at Risk ) and shall not be permitted
to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated, fractionalized, hedged or
otherwise disposed of (including through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether
voluntarily or involuntarily by you (collectively referred to as the  Transfer Restrictions ) and
any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge
or other disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void; and (B) if and to the
extent your Shares at Risk are certificated, the Certificates representing the Shares at Risk are
subject to the restrictions in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv), and GS Inc. shall advise its transfer agent
to place a stop order against your Shares at Risk. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the
applicable withholding rate at delivery of Shares underlying your Year-End

- 2 - 

RSUs equals or exceeds 50%, all of the Shares delivered to you after the application of
the withholding will be Shares at Risk. Within 30 Business Days after the Transferability Date (or
any other date described herein on which the Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall
take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps as may be necessary to remove the Transfer
Restrictions. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of
Year-End RSUs may transfer some or all of their Shares at Risk (which shall continue to be subject
to the Transfer Restrictions until the Transferability Date) through a gift for no consideration to
any immediate family member (as determined pursuant to the procedures) or a trust in which the
recipient and/or the recipient s immediate family members in the aggregate have 100% of the
beneficial interest (as determined pursuant to the procedures).

(v) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares (including Shares at Risk) may be
made initially into an escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the
Firm and may be held in that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such
documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee has determined that any other
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been
satisfied. By accepting your Year-End RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate
or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such
terms and conditions (which may include, without limitation, your executing any documents related
to, and your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow account) as the Firm may deem
necessary or appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the
Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares
while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and
shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date and/or the Transferability Date, the Shares
underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your
estate and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply as soon as practicable after the date of
death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the
Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to
specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Year-End RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares; Termination of
Shares at Risk .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 7,
and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Transferability
Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(c), 4(d) and 4(f), and subject to
Paragraph 6(b):

(i) your rights in respect of all Year-End RSUs shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End
RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof, if you
engage in  Competition  (as defined below) prior to the earlier of December 31,            or the date on

- 3 - 

which your Year-End RSUs become deliverable following a Change in Control in accordance with
Paragraph 7 hereof;

(ii) your rights in respect of the number or percentage of Year-End RSUs that are scheduled to
deliver in
January              and January              shall terminate, such number of Year-End RSUs shall cease
to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof, if you engage in
Competition on or after December 31,             , but prior to the earlier of December 31,              or the
date on which your Year-End RSUs become deliverable following a Change in Control in accordance
with Paragraph 7 hereof; and

(iii) your rights in respect of the number or percentage of Year-End RSUs that are scheduled
to deliver in January              shall terminate, such number of Year-End RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof, if you engage in Competition on
or after December 31,             , but prior to the earlier of December 31,              or the date on which your
Year-End RSUs become deliverable following a Change in Control in accordance with Paragraph 7
hereof.

For purposes of this Award Agreement,  Competition  means that you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or
greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise,
or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer,
employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs immediately shall terminate, such
Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

- 4 - 

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding Year-End RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (A) any Firm employee or
consultant (1) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (2) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (B) any Managing Director of the Firm.

(d) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Shares at Risk immediately shall terminate and such Shares at Risk
shall be cancelled if:

(i) any event constituting Cause has occurred;

(ii) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(iii) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement; or

(iv) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Shares at Risk.

(e) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any
amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an
agreement referred to in Paragraph 4(c)(v) and 4(d)(ii), regardless of whether such obligation
arises under a written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting
Cause referred to in Paragraphs 4(c)(ii)) and 4(d)(i).

- 5 - 

(f) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision in
Paragraph 4(c) or Paragraph 4(d), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee
determines that, during the Firm s              fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or
marketing of any product or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in
the purchase or sale of any security or other property, in any case without appropriate
consideration of the risk to the Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example,
where you have improperly analyzed such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise
concerns about such risk) and, as a result of such action or omission, the Committee determines
there has been, or reasonably could be expected to be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your
business unit or the broader financial system, your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs awarded
as part of this Award immediately shall terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding
and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof (and any Shares, Dividend Equivalents,
dividends on Shares at Risk or other amounts paid or delivered to you in respect of this Award
shall be subject to repayment in accordance with Paragraph 5) and any Shares at Risk shall be
cancelled.

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires
Award recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that
all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied)
shall apply to this Award.

6.  Certain Terminations of Employment .

(a) In the event of the termination of your Employment for any reason (determined as described
in Section 1.2.19 of the Plan), all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to
apply.

(b) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its discretion, Paragraph 4(b) will not
apply following termination of Employment that is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by
 mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of
claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm
or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed
to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an
 involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Award Agreement (except Paragraph 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18
months thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your
Employment for Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be
delivered and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights; Dividends . Each Year-End RSU shall include a Dividend
Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs, at or after
the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the
record date for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an
amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made
in respect of the Share underlying such Outstanding Year-End RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend
Equivalent Right shall be made only with respect to Year-End RSUs that are Outstanding on the
relevant record date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section
2.8.2 of the Plan. You shall be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash

- 6 - 

dividend paid by GS, Inc. in respect of your Shares at Risk, or, if the Shares at Risk are held in
escrow, the Firm will direct the transfer/paying agent to distribute the dividends to you in
respect of your Shares at Risk.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
                  fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with your Year-End RSU Award, including without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

- 7 - 

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(c), 4(d) and 4(f), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or Shares
at Risk would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk;

then, in the case of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and 9(g)(ii) above, any Transfer Restrictions shall cease
to apply, and, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash payment
in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs, in each case
as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your
Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment while you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk, you may be required to certify,
from time to time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award
Agreement. You understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of any
changes to your address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are
responsible for obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive
certification materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by
the deadline specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your
outstanding Year-End RSUs and Shares at Risk, as applicable, in accordance with Paragraphs 4(c)(iv)
and 4(d)(iii).

10.  Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares or to remove the Transfer Restrictions under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4
of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding
amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax
equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms
and conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as

- 8 - 

described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement
shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End RSUs may transfer some or all
of their Year-End RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any immediate family member (as
determined pursuant to the procedures) or a trust in which the recipient and/or the recipient s
immediate family members in the aggregate have 100% of the beneficial interest (as determined
pursuant to the procedures).

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your Year-End RSUs required by this
Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b) and (c)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9 and
the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall occur
by March 15 of the calendar year in which the Delivery

- 9 - 

Date occurs unless, in order to permit such conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the
Committee elects, pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in
accordance with Section 409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar
year or to such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation,
Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section
162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your Year-End RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with
respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted
under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of
Employment occurs; provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the
Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier
of the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under
Section 409A) the date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter
date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes
of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination
of Employment from the Firm (as defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be paid
to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after
the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding Year-End RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee
receives satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such
delivery or payment shall be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as
reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you
under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

- 10 - 

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

16.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 457A . To the extent the
Committee or the Plan s committee that has been delegated certain authority by the Committee (the
 SIP Committee ) determines that (i) Section 457A of the Code or any guidance promulgated
thereunder ( Section 457A ) requires that, in order to qualify for the short-term deferral
exception from treatment as  deferred compensation  under Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code, the
documents governing an Award must specify that such Award will be delivered within the period set
forth in Section 457(A)(d)(3)(B) of the Code and (ii) all or any portion of this Award is or
becomes subject to Section 457A, this Award Agreement will be deemed to be amended as of the Date
of Grant (as the Committee or the SIP Committee determines necessary or appropriate after
consultation with counsel) to provide that delivery of Year-End RSUs will occur no later than 12
months after the end of the taxable year in which the right to delivery is first no longer subject
to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined under Section 457A); provided, however, that no
action or modification will be permitted to the extent that such action or modification would cause
such Award to fail to satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of
Section 409A or otherwise would result in an additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect
of such Award.

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

- 11 - 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

Name:

Title:

- 12 - 

</EX-10.31>

<EX-10.32>
 5
 y81914exv10w32.htm
 EX-10.32: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FRENCH ALTERNATIVE AWARD)

exv10w32 

Exhibit 10.32 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
           YEAR-END FRENCH ALTERNATIVE RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the            Year-End award (this
 Award ) of French Alternative RSUs ( Year-End French Alternative RSUs ) granted to you under The
Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award .

(a) The number of Year-End French Alternative RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the
Award Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause
to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of
Common Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such
delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder
of GS Inc. In addition, as set forth in your Award Statement, all Shares delivered pursuant to
your Year-End French Alternative RSUs will be subject to transfer restrictions following the
Delivery Date as described in Paragraph 3(b)(iv) below.   This Award is conditioned on your
executing the related signature card and returning it to the address designated on the signature
card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by the date specified, and is subject to
all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement, including, without
limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Paragraph 12  .   By
executing the related signature card (which, among other things, opens the custody account referred
to in paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so already), you will have confirmed your
acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.  

(b) This Award is made available to you solely because you are an employee of the Firm on the
Date of Grant who does not own shares representing 10% or more of the issued share capital of GS
Inc.

3.  Vesting and Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of Year-End
French Alternative RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be
rounded to avoid fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to
receive delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs that
are or become Vested, all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to
apply to such Vested Year-End French Alternative RSUs,

and failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a
result of which no Shares underlying such Vested Year-End French Alternative RSUs would be
delivered).

(b)  Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to the number or percentage of your Year-End French
Alternative RSUs shall be the date specified next to such number or percentage of Year-End French
Alternative RSUs on your Award Statement. In accordance with Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. )
1.409A-3(d), the Firm may accelerate delivery to a date that is up to 30 days before the Delivery
Date specified on the Award Statement; provided, however, that in no event shall you be permitted
to designate, directly or indirectly, the taxable year of the delivery. Notwithstanding any other
provision to the contrary in this Award Agreement or your Award Statement, a delivery of Shares in
respect of Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall not occur prior to the expiration of a minimum
period of two years following the Date of Grant, except as provided in Paragraph 3(c) hereof.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15
and 16, in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than
thirty (30) Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery
of Shares is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then
Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other
date) has occurred (which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be
delivered by book entry credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or
required by the Firm and shall be subject to the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph
3(b)(iv) hereof until the applicable  Transferability Date  (defined below) identified on your
Award Statement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be
one of its  covered employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be
subject to Section 3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) Notwithstanding Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, you shall receive, on each Delivery
Date, Shares only to the exclusion of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) The  Transferability Date  with respect to the number or percentage of your Year-End
French Alternative RSUs shall be the date specified next to such number or percentage of Year-End
French Alternative RSUs on your Award Statement (which date, notwithstanding any other provision to
the contrary in this Award Agreement, shall not occur prior to the expiration of a minimum period
of two years following the delivery of
the corresponding Shares). Except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 7, and 9(h): (A) on each
Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares is called for hereunder), and until the
applicable Transferability Date, all of the delivered Shares underlying the number or percentage of
Year-End French Alternative RSUs specified next to such Delivery Date on your Award Statement
(which may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) will be subject to the  Transfer Restrictions 
(as hereinafter defined) (such Shares,  Shares at Risk ) and shall not be permitted to be sold,
exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated, fractionalized, hedged or otherwise
disposed of (including through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or
involuntarily by you (collectively referred to as the  Transfer Restrictions ) and any purported
sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other
disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void; and (B) until the applicable
Transferability Date, if and to the extent your Shares at Risk are certificated, the Certificates
representing the Shares at Risk are subject to the restrictions in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv), and GS
Inc. shall advise its transfer agent to place a stop order against your Shares at Risk. Within 30
Business Days after the Transferability Date (or any other date described herein on which the
Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps as
may be necessary to remove the Transfer Restrictions. Provided that in each case the release of
Transfer Restrictions will not occur prior to the expiration of a minimum of two years following
the delivery of

- 2 - 

corresponding Shares: (A) Shares underlying 50% of your Year-End French
Alternative RSUs with a Delivery Date in January             and that are Vested on the Date of Grant will
have a Transferability Date in January             (B) Shares underlying 50% of your Year-End French
Alternative RSUs with a Delivery Date in January             and that are scheduled to Vest on December
31,            will have
a Transferability Date in January 
          ; (C) Shares underlying the remaining 50%
of your Year-End French Alternative RSUs with a Delivery Date in
January             ( i.e. , Year-End
French Alternative RSUs that are Vested on the Date of Grant and Year-End French Alternative RSUs
that are scheduled to Vest on December 31,
          ) will have a Transferability Date in January            
and (D) 100% of your Year-End French Alternative RSUs with a
Delivery Date in January             will
have a Transferability Date in January            .

(v) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares (including Shares at Risk) may be
made initially into an escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the
Firm and may be held in that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such
documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee has determined that any other
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been
satisfied. By accepting your Year-End French Alternative RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of
yourself (and your estate or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain
an escrow account on such terms and conditions (which may include, without limitation, your
executing any documents related to, and your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow
account) as the Firm may deem necessary or appropriate.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date and/or the Transferability Date, the Shares
underlying your then Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall be delivered to the
representative of your estate and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply as soon as
practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the
Committee is provided to the Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you
may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding Year-End French
Alternative RSUs under your will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of
the Code (or such other similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Year-End French Alternative RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares; Termination
and Retrocession of Shares at Risk .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(h), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Year-End French Alternative RSUs that were
Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested prior to your termination of Employment immediately
shall terminate, such Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares
shall be delivered in respect thereof. Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as
provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 7, and 9(h), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you
otherwise are no longer actively employed with the Firm, any Transfer Restrictions shall continue
to apply until the applicable Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(c), 4(d) and 4(f), and subject to
Paragraphs 6(b) and 6(c), your rights in respect of the Year-End French Alternative RSUs that are
Vested on the Date of Grant shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs
shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the
earlier of (i) December 31,            or (ii) the date on which your Employment is terminated without
Cause or for Good Reason within 18 months following a Change in Control as described in Paragraph 7
hereof, you engage in  Competition.  For purposes of this Award Agreement,  Competition  means
that you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation
interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or
advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.

- 3 - 

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs (whether or not
Vested) immediately shall terminate, such Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (A) any Firm employee or
consultant (1) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (2) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (B) any Managing Director of the Firm.

- 4 - 

Notwithstanding the foregoing, your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs that are Vested on
the Date of Grant will not be subject to Paragraph 4(c)(iii) on
or after December 31,        .

(d) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Shares at Risk immediately shall terminate and such Shares at Risk
shall be retroceded for no consideration if:

(i) any event constituting Cause has occurred;

(ii) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(iii) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement; or

(iv) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Shares at Risk.

(e) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any
amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an
agreement referred to in Paragraph 4(c)(v) and 4(d)(ii), regardless of whether such obligation
arises under a written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting
Cause referred to in Paragraphs 4(c)(ii)) and 4(d)(i).

(f) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision in
Paragraph 4(c) or Paragraph 4(d), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee
determines that, during the Firm s         fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or
marketing of any product or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in
the purchase or sale of any security or other property, in any case without appropriate
consideration of the risk to the Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example,
where you have improperly analyzed such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise
concerns about such risk) and, as a result of such action or omission, the Committee determines
there has been, or reasonably could be expected to be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your
business unit or the broader financial system, your rights in respect of your Year-End French
Alternative RSUs awarded as part of this Award (whether or not Vested) immediately shall terminate,
such Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be
delivered in respect thereof (and any Shares, Dividend Equivalents, dividends on Shares at Risk or
other amounts paid or delivered to you in respect of this Award shall be subject to repayment in
accordance with Paragraph 5) and any Shares at Risk shall be terminated and retroceded for no
consideration.

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

- 5 - 

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement, Downsizing and Approved Termination for Program Analysts.

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined below), the condition set
forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any Year-End French Alternative RSUs that
were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of
Employment (as a result of which such Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall become Vested), but
all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply (including any
applicable Transfer Restrictions). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or
otherwise,  Retirement  means termination of your Employment (other than for Cause) on or after the
Date of Grant at a time when (i) (A) the sum of your age plus years of service with the Firm (as
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 60 and (B) you have completed
at least ten (10) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion) or, if earlier, (ii) (A) you have attained age 50 and (B) you have completed at least 5
(five) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion). Any
termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement shall not affect any
applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the
Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(c), 4(d) and 4(f), your rights in respect
of your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs that become Vested in accordance with
Paragraph 6(a) immediately shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall
cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the
original Vesting Date with respect to such Year-End French Alternative RSUs, you engage in
Competition. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its
discretion, neither this Paragraph 6(b) nor Paragraph 4(b) will apply to your Outstanding Year-End
RSUs if your termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement is characterized
by the Firm as  involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such
a general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both
as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you,
including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination
for good reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of
Employment by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your Year-End French Alternative RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet
become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such
Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall become Vested) and Paragraph 4(b) shall not apply to your
Outstanding Year-End RSUs that are Vested on the Date of Grant, but all other conditions of this
Award Agreement shall continue to apply (including, without limitation, Paragraphs 3(b)(i) and
3(b)(iv)). Whether or not your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall
be determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by you,
including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination
for good reason, will be solely by reason of a  downsizing.  Your termination of Employment by
reason of  downsizing  shall not affect any applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer
Restrictions shall continue to apply until the applicable Transferability Date as provided in
Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you are classified by the
Firm as a  program analyst,  and your Employment is terminated without Cause solely by

- 6 - 

reason of an  approved termination  with respect to your participation in the program prior to any
Vesting Date specified on your Award Statement, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be
waived with respect to any Year-End French Alternative RSUs that were Outstanding but had not yet
become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such
Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall become Vested) and Paragraph 4(b) shall not apply to your
Outstanding Year-End RSUs that are Vested on the Date of Grant, but all other conditions of this
Award Agreement shall continue to apply (including, without limitation, Paragraphs 3(b)(i) and
3(b)(iv)). Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, for purposes of this Paragraph 6(d), an
 approved termination  shall mean a termination of Employment from the analyst program where you:
(i) successfully complete the analyst program (as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion),
which shall include, but not be limited to, remaining Employed by the Firm through the analyst
program completion date specified by the Firm and (ii) terminate Employment with the Firm
immediately after you complete the analyst program, without any  stay-on  or other agreement or
understanding to continue Employment with the Firm. If you agree to stay with the Firm as an
employee after your analyst program ends and then later terminate Employment, you will not have an
 approved termination.  An  approved termination  shall not affect any applicable Transfer
Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the applicable
Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraphs 3(b)(i), 3(b)(iv) and 15), in the event a Change in Control shall
occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you
terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End
French Alternative RSUs, whether or not Vested, shall be delivered (but not earlier than the second
anniversary of the Date of Grant) and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply (but not
earlier than the second anniversary of the applicable Delivery Date).

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights; Dividends . Each Year-End French Alternative RSU shall
include a Dividend Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding
Year-End French Alternative RSUs, at or after the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend
paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after the Date of
Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Share underlying such
Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent Right
shall be made only with respect to Year-End French Alternative RSUs that are Outstanding on the
relevant record date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section
2.8.2 of the Plan. You shall be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash dividend
paid by GS, Inc. in respect of your Shares at Risk, or, if the Shares at Risk are held in escrow,
the Firm will direct the transfer/paying agent to distribute the dividends to you in respect of
your Shares at Risk.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award (provided such sale
shall not occur prior to the expiration of a minimum period of two years following the delivery of
the corresponding Shares). In addition, if you are an individual with separate employment
contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s         fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole
discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an amount the Firm determines is advisable or
necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or potential tax consequences related to your
separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash
(or through payroll deduction or

- 7 - 

otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to
you pursuant to this Award (provided such sale shall not occur prior to the expiration of a minimum
period of two years following the delivery of the corresponding Shares) (or any other Outstanding
Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you may have under the preceding
two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares
or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End French
Alternative RSUs are conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End French Alternative RSUs are conditioned on the
receipt to the full satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section
3.3 of the Plan) that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
French Alternative RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to
time with respect to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions
relating to the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method,
consolidation or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you
understand and agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or
expenses associated with your Year-End French Alternative RSU Award, including without limitation,
such brokerage costs or other fees or expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to
you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) You undertake to comply with (and take all steps requested by the Firm to assure that it
complied with) the reporting requirements to be established by French law and regulations in order
to benefit from the tax and social security regime set forth under article 83 of the Finance Act
for 2005 (law # 2004-1484) dated December 30 th , 2004, article 41 of the law # 2005-842
dated July 26 th , 2005 and articles 34, 39, 40 and 41 of the law # 2006-1770 dated
December 30, 2006.

(h) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(c), 4(d) and 4(f), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative
RSUs and/or Shares at Risk would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted
Employment  or

- 8 - 

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(h)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs and/or Shares at Risk;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(h)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any Year-End French Alternative RSUs you then hold that had not yet
become Vested (as a result of which such Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall become Vested) and,
in the case of Paragraphs 9(h)(i) and 9(h)(ii) above, any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to
apply, and, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash payment in
respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your then Outstanding Vested Year-End French
Alternative RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(i) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(j) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment while you
continue to hold outstanding Vested Year-End French Alternative RSUs and/or Shares at Risk, you may
be required to certify, from time to time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the
Plan and this Award Agreement. You understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to
inform the Firm of any changes to your address to ensure timely receipt of the certification
materials, (ii) you are responsible for obtaining such certification materials by contacting the
Firm if you do not receive certification materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed
certification materials by the deadline specified in the certification materials will result in the
forfeiture of all of your outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs and Shares at Risk, as
applicable, in accordance with Paragraphs 4(c)(iv) and 4(d)(iii).

10.  Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares or to remove the Transfer Restrictions under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4
of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding
amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax
equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the

- 9 - 

Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of the
provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void.

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your Year-End French Alternative
RSUs required by this Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b)
and (c), 6(b) and (c) (execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated
tax liability) and 9 and the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are
satisfied, and shall occur by March 15 of the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs
unless, in order to permit such conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects,
pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section
409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to such later
date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7)
(in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your Year-End French Alternative RSUs shall not have the
effect of deferring delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture,
beyond the date on which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture
would lapse, with respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the
Committee elects a later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise
as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable,
the subsequent election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

- 10 - 

(e) The timing of delivery of Shares referred to in Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of
Employment occurs (but not earlier than the second anniversary of the Date of Grant); provided,
however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the Firm in accordance with Section
409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier of the Delivery Date or (to the
extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under Section 409A) the date that is six
months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter date is not during a Window Period,
the first trading day of the next Window Period) (but not earlier than the second anniversary of
the Date of Grant). For purposes of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to termination
of Employment mean a termination of Employment from the Firm (as defined by the Firm) which is also
separation from service (as defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End French Alternative
RSUs shall be paid to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any
corresponding regular cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for
which occurs on or after the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable
withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the
Shares underlying such Outstanding Year-End French Alternative RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(h) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee
receives satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such
delivery or payment shall be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as
reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you
under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

16.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 457A . To the extent the
Committee or the Plan s committee that has been delegated certain authority by the Committee (the
 SIP Committee ) determines that (i) Section 457A of the Code or any guidance promulgated
thereunder ( Section 457A ) requires that, in order to qualify for the short-term deferral
exception from treatment as  deferred compensation  under Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code, the
documents governing an Award must specify that such Award will be delivered within the period set
forth in Section 457(A)(d)(3)(B) of the Code and (ii) all or any portion of this Award is or
becomes subject to Section 457A, this Award Agreement will be deemed to be amended as of the Date
of Grant (as the Committee or the SIP Committee determines necessary or appropriate after
consultation with counsel) to provide that delivery of Year-End RSUs will occur no later than 12
months after the end of the taxable year in which the right to delivery is first no longer subject
to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined under Section 457A); provided, however, that no
action or modification will be permitted to the extent that such action or modification would cause
such Award to fail to satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of
Section 409A or otherwise would result in an additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect
of such Award.

- 11 - 

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

- 12 - 

</EX-10.32>

<EX-10.34>
 6
 y81914exv10w34.htm
 EX-10.34: FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT

exv10w34 

Exhibit 10.34 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
OUTSIDE DIRECTOR     OPTION AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of an award granted to you under The
Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) of Options to purchase shares
of Common Stock ( Shares ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan.

2.  Award . The Award Statement sets forth (i) the Date of Grant, (ii) the number of
Options granted, (iii) the per-Share Exercise Price and (iv) the Initial Exercise Date. Until the
Shares are delivered to you pursuant to Paragraph 6, you have no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.
 This Award is subject to all terms and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. 

3.  Expiration Date . Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Options shall expire and no
longer be exercisable on the Expiration Date (as identified on your Award Statement).

4.  Vesting . You shall be fully Vested in the Options on the Date of Grant.

5.  Exercisability of Vested Options .

(a)  General . To the extent Outstanding and unexercised, the Options may be exercised
in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, but not earlier than the Initial
Exercise Date. The Committee may from time to time prescribe periods during which the Options
shall not be exercisable.

(b)  Death . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you die
and any Options remain unexercised, and provided your rights in respect of such Options have not
previously terminated, such Options shall be exercisable by the representative of your estate or,
to the extent you specifically bequeath any such Options under your will in accordance with such
procedures, if any, as may be adopted by the Committee to an organization described in Sections
501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar charitable organization as may be approved
by the Committee) (a  Charitable Beneficiary ), by the Charitable Beneficiary, in either case in
accordance with the procedures described in Paragraph 5(a) as soon as practicable after the date of
death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the
Committee and shall, unless earlier terminated or cancelled in accordance with the terms of this
Agreement, remain exercisable until the Expiration Date and shall thereafter terminate.

(c)  Other Terminations . Upon your separation from the Board of Directors of GS Inc.
for any reason, your Outstanding and unexercised Options shall remain exercisable until the
Expiration Date, and shall thereafter terminate.

6.  Delivery . Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, or as otherwise provided
in this Award Agreement, and except as provided in Paragraph 8, upon receipt of payment of the
Exercise Price for Shares subject to one or more Options, delivery of the appropriate number of
Shares shall be effected by book-entry credit to the Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as
approved or required by the Firm. No delivery of Shares shall be made unless you have timely
established the Custody Account or a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm. You
shall be the beneficial owner of any Shares properly credited to the Custody Account or delivered
to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm. You shall have no right to any
dividend or distribution with respect to such Shares if the record date for such dividend or
distribution is prior to the date the Custody Account or brokerage account, as approved or required
by the Firm, is properly credited with such Shares. The Firm may deliver cash or other property in
lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in accordance with this Paragraph 6.

7.  Conflicted Employment . If you accept employment at any U.S. Federal, state or
local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or international organization, any
self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of any such government or
organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a result of such
employment, your continued holding of your Options would result in an actual or perceived conflict
of interest ( Conflicted Employment ) then, at the sole discretion of the Firm: (a) such
Outstanding Options shall be cancelled and as soon as practicable after the Committee has received
satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment (the  Release Date ) you shall
receive a payment equal to the excess (if any) of (x) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the
Business Day immediately prior to the Release Date multiplied by the number of your Options that
were Outstanding immediately prior to such cancellation over (y) the Exercise Price multiplied by
the number of such Options; (b) the Initial Exercise Date with respect to your Outstanding Options
shall become the Release Date; or (c) if and to the extent provided in any procedures adopted by
the Committee, you may be permitted to transfer your Outstanding Options for value to a party or
parties acceptable to the Firm (which may include the Firm). Notwithstanding anything else herein,
the actions described in this Paragraph 7 shall be permitted only at such time and if and to the
extent as would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A of the
Code (which governs taxation of certain deferred compensation).

8.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, and without limiting any permitted transfer in
accordance with Paragraph 7, the limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply with
respect to the Options. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of
this Paragraph 8 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt procedures
pursuant to which you may transfer some or all of your Options through a gift for no consideration
to any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece,
nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law,
including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant
or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any
other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

9.  Withholding, Consents and Legends .

(a) The delivery of Shares upon exercise of your Outstanding Options is conditioned on your
satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes (in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan,
provided that the Committee may determine not to apply the minimum withholding rate specified in
Section 3.2.2 of the Plan).

(b) Your rights in respect of the Options are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable, and by accepting this Award you
shall be deemed to consent and agree to the items specified in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan.

(c) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

10.  Successors and Assigns of GS Inc . The terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of GS Inc. and its successors and
assigns.

11.  Committee Discretion . The Committee shall have full discretion with respect to
any actions to be taken or determinations to be made in connection with this Award Agreement, and
its determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive in accordance with Section 1.3 of the
Plan.

12.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement in any respect in accordance with Section 1.3 of the
Plan, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect in accordance with Section 3.1 of the Plan.

13.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

14.  Section 409A of the Code . This Award is intended to be exempt from the provisions
of Section 409A of the Code ( Section 409A ). Notwithstanding anything else herein or in the Plan,
no action described herein, including without limitation Paragraphs 6 and 7, or in the Plan shall
be permitted if the Firm determines such action would result in the imposition of additional tax
under Section 409A.

15.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

Name:

Title:

Accepted and Agreed:

By:                                                                    
Print Name:

</EX-10.34>

<EX-10.35>
 7
 y81914exv10w35.htm
 EX-10.35: FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

exv10w35 

Exhibit 10.35 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS 
AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
OUTSIDE DIRECTOR            RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of an Award of RSUs granted to
you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) as of the Date
of Grant.

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement which are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan.   In light
of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent
that you are a United States taxpayer, certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan
shall apply only as provided in Paragraph 11  .

2.  Award . The number of RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. Each RSU constitutes an unfunded and unsecured promise of GS Inc. to
deliver (or cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement, a share of Common Stock (a  Share ) (or cash or other property equal to the Fair Market
Value thereof) on the Delivery Date as provided herein. Until such delivery, you have only the
rights of a general unsecured creditor and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.  This Award is
subject to all terms and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement .

3.  Delivery .

(a)  In General . Except as provided below in this Paragraph 3 and subject to
Paragraphs 6, 7 and 11, the Delivery Date shall be on the first Business Day in the third quarter
of the Firm s fiscal year that occurs within a Window Period in the year following the year in
which you cease to be a director of the GS Inc. Board. The Firm may deliver cash or other property
in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable on the Delivery Date. Unless
otherwise determined by the Committee, or as otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, delivery
of Shares shall be effected by book-entry credit to the Custody Account or to a brokerage account,
as approved or required by the Firm. No delivery of Shares shall be made unless you have timely
established the Custody Account or a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm. You
shall be the beneficial owner of any Shares properly credited to the Custody Account or delivered
to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm. You shall have no right to any
dividend or distribution with respect to such Shares if the record date for such dividend or
distribution is prior to the date the Custody Account or brokerage account, as approved or required
by the Firm, is properly credited with such Shares.

(b)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 11), if you die prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares (or cash or other property

in lieu of all or any portion thereof) corresponding to your Outstanding RSUs shall be delivered to
the representative of your estate as soon as practicable after the date of death and after such
documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the Committee. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of
your Outstanding RSUs under your will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and
2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar charitable organization as may be approved by the
Committee).

4.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Prior to the delivery of Shares (or cash or other
property in lieu thereof) pursuant to this Award Agreement, at or after the time of distribution of
any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of the Common Stock, you shall be entitled to
receive an amount in cash or other property equal to such regular cash dividend payment as would
have been made in respect of the Shares not yet delivered, as if the Shares had been actually
delivered.

5.  Non-transferability . Except as may otherwise be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan
shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of
this Paragraph 5 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt procedures
pursuant to which you may transfer some or all of your RSUs through a gift for no consideration to
any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law,
including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant
or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any
other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

6.  Conflicted Employment . Notwithstanding anything in this Award Agreement to the
contrary, if you accept employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S.
government, any supranational or international organization, any self-regulatory organization or
any agency, or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any other employer
determined by the Committee, and as a result of such employment, your continued holding of your
Outstanding RSUs would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted
Employment ), then you shall receive, at the sole discretion of the Firm, either a lump sum cash
payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your then Outstanding RSUs, in each case
as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your
Conflicted Employment.

7.  Withholding, Consents and Legends .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan, provided that the Committee may determine not to
apply the minimum withholding rate specified in Section 3.2.2 of the Plan.

(b) Your rights in respect of the RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full satisfaction
of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the

-2- 

Plan) that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable, and, by accepting this Award,
you agree to the matters described in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan.

(c) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable. GS Inc. may
advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

8.  Successors and Assigns of GS Inc.  The terms and conditions of this Award Agreement
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of GS Inc. and its successors and assigns.

9.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement in any respect in accordance with Section 1.3 of the
Plan, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect in accordance with Section 3.1 of the Plan.
Notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(h) and 3.1 of the Plan, no such
amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement
without your consent (or the consent of your estate, if such consent is obtained after your death),
except that the Committee reserves the right to accelerate the delivery of the Shares and in its
discretion provide that such Shares may not be transferable until the Delivery Date. Any amendment
of this Award Agreement shall be in writing signed by an authorized member of the Board or any
other person or persons authorized by the Board.

10.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

11.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 11 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 11 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 11 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable conditions
or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your RSUs required by

-3- 

this Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 7(a) and (b), and the
consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall occur by
December 31 of the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit such
conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Treasury Regulations
section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section
409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date as may be permitted under Section 409A,
including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan
pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(a) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to the
extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property that
the Firm may deliver in respect of your RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring delivery or
payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on which such
delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with respect to
the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a later date for
this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted under Section
409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent election
provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(b), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 4 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding RSUs shall be paid to you
within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular cash
dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after the
Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding RSUs.

(f) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 6 shall be the earlier of (i)
the Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the Committee receives satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or payment shall
be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the
Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.

(g) Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred compensation.

(h) Delivery of Shares in respect of this Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

-4- 

12.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

Name:

Title:

Accepted and Agreed:

By:                                                                    
Print Name:

-5- 

</EX-10.35>

<EX-10.36>
 8
 y81914exv10w36.htm
 EX-10.36: DESCRIPTION OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR COMPENSATION

exv10w36 

Exhibit 10.36 

Description of Non-Employee Director Compensation 

For fiscal 2009, the compensation for the non-employee directors of The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. (Group Inc.) consisted of:

10,000 fully vested stock options (Options) for each of John H. Bryan,
Stephen Friedman, Rajat K. Gupta, James A. Johnson, Lakshmi N. Mittal and Ruth
J. Simmons; 

1,250 fully vested RSUs and 5,000 fully vested Options for each of Claes
Dahlb ck, William W. George and Lois D. Juliber; and 

a prorated grant of 1,667 fully vested RSUs for Mr. Schiro. 

Non-employee directors (other than Mr. Schiro, who joined during the year) elected whether to
receive the annual grants in RSUs, Options, or a combination of RSUs and Options. RSUs granted to
non-employee directors for fiscal 2009 services are fully vested and provide for delivery of the
underlying shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (Common Stock), of Group Inc. on the
first eligible trading day in the third quarter of the year following the year of the non-employee
director s retirement from the Group Inc. board of directors (the Board). Options granted to
non-employee directors for fiscal 2009 services are fully vested and have an exercise price of
$154.16, the closing price-per-share of Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on February 5,
2010, the date of grant. The Options generally will expire in February 2014. One-third of the
Options generally become exercisable in each of January 2011, January 2012 and January 2013,
provided that all of the Options become exercisable on the date the non-employee director ceases to
be a member of the Board.

The Board, upon the recommendation of Group Inc. s Corporate Governance and Nominating
Committee, has a policy on stock ownership that requires each non-employee director to beneficially
own at least 5,000 shares of Common Stock or fully vested RSUs within two years of becoming a
director. All non-employee directors of Group Inc. are in compliance with this policy.

Non-employee directors of Group Inc. are permitted to participate in Group Inc. s employee
matching gift program on the same terms as employees generally. Under the program for 2009, Group
Inc. matched gifts of up to $20,000 in the aggregate per participating individual.

Non-employee directors receive no compensation other than directors  fees.

</EX-10.36>

<EX-10.42>
 9
 y81914exv10w42.htm
 EX-10.42: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS

exv10w42 

Exhibit 10.42 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.  
 Signature Card For            Awards and the BNY Mellon Custody Account   
 and Consent to Receive Electronic Delivery  

IMPORTANT: PLEASE REVIEW, EXECUTE AND RETURN THIS FORM TO: EQUITY COMPENSATION 
(DIVISION OF HCM), 30 HUDSON STREET, 35TH FLOOR, JERSEY CITY, NJ 07302. 

YOU MUST PROPERLY EXECUTE THIS FORM TO ACKNOWLEDGE ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND  CONDITIONS OF
YOUR AWARD(S) AND RELATED MATTERS. 

1. I have received and agree to be bound by The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  SIP ) and the Award Agreement(s) applicable to me in connection with the
           Award(s) (the  Award(s) ) that I have been granted by the Firm (as defined in the
SIP). I confirm that I have accepted the Award(s) subject to the terms and conditions contained in
the SIP and the Award Agreement(s), including but not limited to, the requirement that disputes
relating to the Award(s) and the Award Agreement(s) be decided through arbitration in New York City
and be governed by New York law.

As a condition of this grant, I understand that the Award(s) (as well as any other award that the
Firm may grant to me under the SIP) is/are subject to other governing law provisions (as outlined
in this signature card, in the current or otherwise then current Award Summary (as defined below)
or otherwise as may be required under applicable law) and, as a condition to receiving such awards,
I agree to be bound thereby. I also understand that the Firm may grant to me other awards under the
SIP that also may contain (among other terms and conditions) arbitration and other governing law
provisions and, as a condition to receiving such awards, I agree to be bound thereby. As a
condition of this grant, I agree to provide upon request an appropriate certification regarding my
U.S. tax status on Form W-8BEN, Form W-9, or other appropriate form, and I understand that failure
to supply a required form may result in the imposition of backup withholding on certain payments I
receive pursuant to this grant.

Further, as a condition of this grant, if I am a person who has worked in the  United
Kingdom  at any time during the earnings period relating to any award under the SIP, as
determined by the Firm, when requested and as directed by the Firm, I will agree to a Joint
Election under s431 ITEPA 2003 of the laws of the United Kingdom for full or partial disapplication
of Chapter 2 Income Tax (Earnings and Pension) Act 2003 under the laws of the United Kingdom and
will sign and return such election in respect of all future deliveries of shares underlying the
Award(s) and any previous grants made to me under the SIP and understand that the Firm intends to
meet its delivery obligations in shares with respect to my Award(s), except as may be prohibited by
law or described in the accompanying Award Agreement or supplementary materials.

If I have worked in  Switzerland  at any time during the earnings period relating to the
Award(s) granted to me as determined by the Firm, (i) I acknowledge that my Award(s) are subject to
tax in accordance with the rulings and method of calculation of taxable values to be agreed by the
Firm with the Federal and/or Zurich/Geneva cantonal/communal tax authorities or as otherwise
directed by the Firm, and (ii) I hereby agree to be bound by any rulings agreed by the Firm in
respect of any Award(s), which is expected to result in taxation at the time of delivery of shares
(or cash or other property in lieu thereof), and (iii) I undertake to declare and make a full and
accurate income tax declaration in respect of my Award(s) in accordance with the above ruling or as
directed by the Firm.

I understand and acknowledge that any transfer provisions (including, where applicable, escrow and
other similar provisions, but specifically excluding any transfer restrictions imposed on any
Award(s) in the Award Agreement(s) or the SIP) in the SIP or related documents will not apply to me
(i) to the extent that the applicability of those provisions would affect the availability of
relevant exemptions or tax favorable treatment, or (ii) otherwise in circumstances determined by
the Firm in its sole discretion.

2. I have read and understand the Firm s  Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based
Awards  (the  Notice Policy ), pursuant to which I am required to provide certain specified advance
notice of my intent to leave employment with the Firm. I understand that in executing this form, I
will be agreeing to provide my employing entity with advance notice of my intention to leave
employment with the Firm as follows:

In the Americas, Japan and Asia Ex-Japan (excluding India): 60 days in advance of my
termination date 

In Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India: 90 days in advance of my termination date 

and that, where applicable (see the provisions in the Award Summary), the provisions of the Notice
Policy constitute a permanent change to my terms and conditions of employment. I agree to this
change in consideration of my continued employment with the Firm and my acceptance of the Award(s),
and I agree to be bound by the Notice Policy as in effect from time-to-time.

I also understand that the terms and conditions of my employment shall be permanently changed so
that, in the event that I resign from the Firm, the Firm may either:

Unilaterally waive or reduce the notice period otherwise applicable to my employment, or 

Take such other action as shall have that effect. 

I acknowledge that the Firm retains its right to bring forward the end of the notice period to such
earlier date, and that I will not be entitled to any salary, wages, or benefits after such earlier
date. In addition, I understand that I will not receive pay in lieu for any period of notice that
has been waived or reduced.

This agreement concerning my notice period is being made for and on behalf of my Goldman Sachs
employing entity, and implementation of the Notice Policy does not create an employment
relationship between me and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

I understand that unless the notice period is waived by agreement or unilaterally as set out above,
or I have exercised a statutory right to make a payment in lieu of my notice period, I will be paid
my base salary and will continue to receive all mandatory benefits during the notice period. I
understand that during my notice period I may (subject to any local laws to the contrary) be
required to remain away from the Firm s offices, and/or be removed from any assigned duties or
assigned to other suitable duties during my notice period.

I understand that if I fail to give the full amount of notice as set out above, or to comply in any
respect with the Notice Policy, I will have failed to meet an obligation I have under an agreement
with the Firm, as a result of which the Firm may have certain rights and I may be subject to
certain legal and equitable rights and remedies, including, without limitation, the forfeiture of
the Award(s) and any other awards granted to me (whether before or after the Award(s)) under the
SIP. The forfeiture of such Award(s) will also apply where I fail to give the full amount of notice
by exercising any right I may have under applicable legislation to make a payment in lieu of such
notice. I also understand that, if I fail to comply with the Notice Policy, the Firm may be
entitled to an injunction from a court restraining me from violating it.

I understand that, for employees of Archon Group, L.P., the Notice Policy applies only to Senior
Executives.

3. I have read and understand the Firm s hedging and pledging policies (including, without
limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS Shares, Equity Awards
and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and agree to be bound by them (with respect to
the Award(s) and any prior awards under the SIP), both during and following my employment with the
Firm.

4. If a custody account is required, I request that The Bank of New York Mellon ( BNY Mellon )
(successor in interest to Mellon Bank, N.A.) open a custody account for me as described in the
enclosed Custody Agreement among BNY Mellon (as successor in interest to Mellon Bank N.A.), The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and myself. I have received and agree to be bound by the Custody
Agreement (or any other such custody agreement previously entered into by me or on my behalf),
including the applicable restrictions on transfers, pledges and withdrawals of Common Stock, the
provisions permitting the Firm to monitor my custody account, and the limitations on the liability
of BNY Mellon and the Firm. I also agree to open an account with any other custodian or broker
selected by the Firm, if the Firm, in its sole discretion, requires me to open an account with such
custodian or broker as a condition to delivery of shares (or cash or other property) underlying the
Award(s).

5. If the Firm advanced or loaned me funds to pay certain taxes (including income taxes and Social
Security, or similar contributions) in connection with the Award(s) (or does so in the future), and
if I have not signed a separate loan agreement governing repayment, I authorize the Firm to
withhold from my compensation any amounts required to reimburse it for any such advance or loan to
the extent permitted by applicable law.

I understand and agree that, if I leave the Firm, I am required immediately to repay any
outstanding amount. I further understand and agree that the Firm has the right to offset, to the
extent permitted by the Award Agreement and applicable law (including Section 409A of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which limits the Firm s ability to offset in the case of
United States
taxpayers under certain circumstances), any outstanding amounts that I then owe the Firm against
its delivery obligations under the Award(s) or against any

other amounts
the Firm then owes me. I
understand that the delivery of shares pursuant to the Award(s) is conditioned on my satisfaction
of any applicable taxes or social security contributions (collectively referred to as  tax  or
 taxes  for purposes of the SIP and all related documents) in accordance with the SIP. To the
extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require me to provide
amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations
imposed on me or the Firm in connection with the grant, vesting or delivery of the Award(s) by
requiring me to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or
otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of shares delivered to
me pursuant to the Award(s). However, in no event shall any such choice or the choice specified in
paragraph 6, below, determine, or give me any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of
shares or payment of tax obligations. I understand and agree that the Firm may reduce any year-end
cash bonus that I may receive by an amount equal to the estimated Indian Fringe Benefit Tax
applicable to any award (whether or not vested), as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion.

6. If I am an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the
Firm s            fiscal year), I acknowledge and agree that the Firm may, in its sole discretion,
require (to the extent permitted by applicable law) that I provide for a reserve in an amount the
Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or potential
tax consequences related to my separate employment contracts by requiring me to choose between
remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deductions or otherwise) or (ii) in the form
of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of shares delivered to me pursuant to the Award(s) (or
any other of my awards outstanding under the SIP).

7. In connection with any Award Agreement or other interest I may receive in the SIP or any shares
of Common Stock of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. that I may receive in connection with the Award(s)
or any award I have previously received or may receive, or in connection with any amendment or
variation thereof or any documents listed in paragraph 8, I hereby consent to (a) the acceptance by
me of the Award(s) electronically, (b) the giving of instructions in electronic form whether by me
or the Firm, and (c) the receipt in electronic form at my email address maintained at Goldman Sachs
or via Goldman Sachs  intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, at such other
email address as I may specify, or via such other electronic means as the Firm and I may agree) all
notices and information that the Firm is required by law to send to me in connection therewith
including, without limitation, any document (or part thereof) constituting part of a prospectus
covering securities that have been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the
information contained in any such document and any information required to be delivered to me under
Rule 428 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, including, for example, the annual report to security
holders or the annual report on Form 10-K of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for its latest fiscal
year, and that all prior elections that I may have made relating to the delivery of any such
document in physical form are hereby revoked and superseded. I agree to check Goldman Sachs 
intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, such other electronic site as the Firm
and I may agree) periodically as I deem appropriate for any new notices or information concerning
the SIP. I understand that I am not required to consent to the receipt of such documents in
electronic form in order to receive the Award(s) and that I may decline to receive such documents
in electronic form by contacting Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 35th
Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, which will provide me with hard copies of
such documents upon request. I also understand that this consent is voluntary and may be revoked at
any time on three business days  written notice.

8. I hereby acknowledge that I have received in electronic form in accordance with my consent in
paragraph 7 the following documents:

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Summary of The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Custody Agreement with BNY Mellon; 

The            Annual Report for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.; 

The annual report on Form 10-K for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for the fiscal year
ended
                  , filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on                         ; 

The Award Agreement(s); and 

Summaries of the Award(s) ( Award Summary ). 

9. I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any notifications,
filings or remittances of funds that may be required in connection with the SIP or otherwise on my
behalf. Further, if I am an employee who is resident in South Africa at a relevant time, by
accepting my Award(s), I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any
required notification on my behalf to the Reserve Bank of South Africa (or its authorized dealer)
in relation to my participation in the SIP and to any acquisition of shares for no consideration
under the SIP or other similar filing that may otherwise be required in South Africa. I acknowledge
that any such authorization is effective from the date of acceptance of my Award(s) until such time
as I expressly revoke the authorization by written notice to any appropriate representative of the
Firm. I understand that this authorization does not create any obligation on the Firm to deal with
any such notifications, filings or remittances of funds that I may be required to make in
connection with the SIP and I accept full responsibility in this regard.

Consent to Data Collection, Processing and Transfers: 

I understand and agree that in connection with the SIP and any other Firm benefit plan (the
 Programs ), to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, the Firm may
collect and process various data that is personal to me, including my name, address, work location,
hire date, Social Security or Social Insurance or taxpayer identification number (required for tax
purposes), type and amount of SIP or other benefit plan award, citizenship or residency (required
for tax purposes) and other similar information reasonably necessary for the administration of such
Programs (collectively referred to as  Information ) and provide such Information to its affiliates
and BNY Mellon (and its affiliates) or any other service provider, whether in the United States or
elsewhere, as is reasonably necessary for the administration of the Programs and under the laws of
these jurisdictions. I understand that, in certain circumstances, foreign courts, law enforcement
agencies or regulatory agencies may be entitled to access the Information. I understand that,
unless I explicitly authorize otherwise, the Firm, its affiliates and its service providers
(through their respective employees in charge of the relevant electronic and manual processing)
will use this Information only for purposes of administering the Programs. I understand that, in
the United States and in other countries to which such Information may be transferred for the
administration of the Programs, the level of data protection is not equivalent to data protection
standards in the member states of the European Union, Canada or certain Canadian provinces. I
understand that, upon request, to Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 35th
Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, to the extent required under the laws of
the applicable jurisdiction, I may have access to and obtain communication of the Information and
may exercise any of my rights in respect of such Information, including objecting to the processing
of the Information and requesting that the Information be corrected (if wrong), completed or
clarified (if incomplete or equivocal), or erased (if cannot legally be collected or kept). Upon
request, to the extent required under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, Equity Compensation
(division of HCM) will also provide me, free of charge, with a list of all the service providers
used in connection with the Programs at the time of request. I understand that, if I refuse to
authorize the use and transfer of the Information consistent with the above, I may not benefit from
the Programs. I authorize the use and transfer of the Information consistent with the above for the
period of administration of the Programs. In particular, I authorize (within the limits described
above): (i) the data processing by the Firm (which means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates); (ii) the data processing by BNY Mellon and its affiliates; (iii) the
data processing by the Firm s other service providers; and (iv) the data transfer to the United
States and other countries. I further acknowledge that the Information may be retained by such
persons beyond the period of administration of the Programs to the extent permitted under the laws
of the applicable jurisdiction and I so authorize. 

Other Legal Notices: 

FOR ARGENTINA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This is a private offer. It is not subject to the supervision of the Comision Nacional de
Valores (CNV) or any other governmental authority in Argentina.

FOR AUSTRALIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ( GS Inc. ) undertakes that it will, at any time until the
Delivery Date, within a reasonable period of you so requesting, provide you with a copy of the
rules of the SIP and/or the Australian dollar equivalent of the market price of GS Inc. s shares.
This information may be obtained by sending a written request to Head of Securities Compliance   GS
JBWere.

Any advice given by GS Inc. in connection with the SIP is general advice only. Nothing in the
documentation is to be taken to constitute a recommendation or statement of opinion that is
intended to influence a person or persons in making a decision to accept an Award and you should
consider obtaining your own financial product and/or legal advice from an independent person. The
documentation does not take into account the objectives, financial situation or needs of any
particular person. Before acting on the information contained in the documentation, or making a
decision to participate, you should seek professional advice as to whether participation is
appropriate in light of you personal circumstances.

FOR BRAZIL EMPLOYEES ONLY 

Please note that the offer of an award under the SIP does not constitute a public offer in
Brazil, and therefore it is not subject to registration with the Brazilian authorities.

According to Brazilian regulations, individuals resident in Brazil must inform the Central Bank of
Brazil yearly the amounts of any nature, the assets and rights

-2- 

(including cash and other deposits) held outside of the Brazilian territory. Please consult your
own legal counsel on the terms and conditions for presentation of such information.

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with Portuguese
translations of the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original
English version of these documents controls. (Ao aceitar esta outorga, Voc  reconhece que a Empresa
Ihe disponibilizou a vers o em portugu s do Award Summary, do Award Agreement e do Signature Card;
por m a vers o original em ingl s desses documentos prevalecer .)

FOR CANADA EMPLOYEES IN QUEBEC ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and agree that you and the Firm expressly wish that
all documents related to the Award(s) (including, without limitation, the Plan document, this
Signature Card, the Award Agreement and the Award Summary) be in English only.

En acceptant le ou les octrois, vous reconnaissez et acceptez que les parties souhaitent
express ment que tous les documents se rapportant   l octroi ou aux octrois (incluant, sans limit 
la g n ralit  de ce qui pr c de, le document du r gime, cette carte de signature, la convention
d octroi et le sommaire d octroi) soient en anglais seulement.

FOR THE PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF CHINA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

All documentation in relation to the Award(s) is intended for your personal use and in your
capacity as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) and is being given to you solely for the
purpose of providing you with information concerning the Award(s) which the Firm may grant to you
as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) in accordance with the terms of the SIP, this
documentation and the applicable Award Agreement(s). The grant of the Award(s) has not been and
will not be registered with the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of
China pursuant to relevant securities laws and regulations, and the Award(s) may not be offered or
sold within the mainland of the People s Republic of China by means of any of the documentation in
relation to the Award(s) through a public offering or in circumstances which require a registration
or approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of China in
accordance with the relevant securities laws and regulations.

FOR FRANCE EMPLOYEES ONLY 

Disclaimer: The current award is not covered by any prospectus which is the subject of the
AMF s approval. Grantees can only receive this award for their own account ( compte propre ) in the
conditions laid down by articles D. 411-1, D. 411-2, D.411-3, D.411-4, D. 734-1, D. 744-1, D. 754-1
and D. 764-1 of the French Monetary and Financial Code. Any direct or indirect dissemination into
the public of the financial instruments acquired can only take place within the conditions of
articles L. 411-1, L. 411-2, L. 412-1 and L. 621-8 -to L. 621-8-3 of the French Monetary and
Financial Code.

By accepting this award, you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with French translations of
the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original English version of
these documents control.

Avertissement: La pr sente attribution ne donne pas lieu   un prospectus soumis au visa de
l Autorit  des marches financiers. Les personnes qui y participent ne peuvent le faire que pour
compte propre dans les conditions fix es par les articles D. 411-1, D. 411-2, D.411-3, D.411-4, D.
734-1, D. 744-1, D. 754-1 et D. 764-1 du Code monetaire et financier. La diffusion, directe ou
indirecte, dans le public des instruments financiers ainsi acquis, ne peut  tre r alis e que dans
les conditions pr vues aux articles L. 411-1, L. 411-2 L. 412-1 et L. 621-8   L. 621-8-3 du Code
mon taire et financier.

En acceptant cet octroi, vous reconnaissez que la Soci t  vous   transmis une version fran ais de
l  Award Summary  (R sum  de l Octroi), l  Award Agreement  (Contrat d Octroi) et de la  Signature Card 
(Carte de Signature), mais que seule la version originale en langue anglaise fait foi. 

FOR GERMANY EMPLOYEES ONLY 

The Award(s) are offered to you by Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ( GS Inc. ) in accordance with the
terms of the SIP which are summarized in the Award Summary. More information about GS Inc. is
available on  www.gs.com . You are being offered Award(s) under the SIP in order to provide an
additional incentive and to encourage employee share ownership and so increase your interest in the
Firm s success. Please refer to the section entitled  Shares Available for Awards  in the SIP for
information on the maximum number of GS Inc. shares that can be offered under the SIP. The
obligation to publish a prospectus under the Prospectus Directive does not apply to the offer
because of Article 4(1)(e) of that directive.

Die Pr mien werden lhnen von der Goldman Sachs Group Inc. ( GS Inc. ) gem   den in der
Pr mien bersicht aufgef hrten Bestimmungen des Erwerbsplans angeboten. Weitere Informationen  ber
GS Inc. finden Sie unter  www.gs.com . Die Pr mien werden lhnen im Rahmen des Erwerbsplans angeboten,
um einen zus tzlichen Anreiz darzustellen und Sie als Mitarbeiter zum Erwerb von Aktien zu
ermutigen, um so Ihren Anteil am Erfolg des Unternehmens zu vergr  ern. Informationen zur Anzahl
der im Rahmen des Plans angebotenen GS Inc.-Aktien entnehmen Sie bitte dem Abschnitt  als Pr mien
erh ltliche Aktien  im Erwerbsplan. Die Verpflichtung zur Ver ffentlichung eines Emissionsprospekts
gem   der europ ischen Prospektrichtlinie trifft auf Grund von Artikel 4(1)(e) dieser Richtlinie
nicht auf dieses Angebot zu.

FOR HONG KONG EMPLOYEES ONLY 

WARNING:

The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. You
are advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer. If you are in doubt about any of the
contents of this document, you should obtain independent professional advice.

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and accept that you will not be permitted to transfer
awards to persons who fall outside the definition of  qualifying persons  in the Companies
Ordinance ( i.e ., a person who is not a current or former director, employee, officer, consultant of
the Firm or a person other than the offeree s wife, husband, widow, widower, child or step-child
under the age of 18 years, or as otherwise defined), even if otherwise permitted under the SIP or
any of the related documents.

FOR INDIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This website does not invite offers from the public for subscription or purchase of the
securities of any body corporate under any law for the time being in force in India. The website is
not a prospectus under the applicable laws for the time being in force in India. Goldman Sachs does
not intend to market, promote, invite offers for subscription or purchase of the securities of any
body corporate by this website. The information provided on this website is for the record only.
Any person who subscribes or purchases securities of any body corporate should consult his own
investment advisers before making any investments. Goldman Sachs shall not be liable or responsible
for any such investment decision made by any person.

FOR INDONESIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with Bahasa Indonesia
translations of the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original
English version of these documents controls.

Dengan menerima Putusan, Anda menyatakan bahwa Perusahaan telah memberikan Anda terjemahan Bahasa
Indonesia dari Ikhtisar Putusan, Perjanjian Putusan dan Perjanjian dengan Tanda Tangan, tapi versi
asli dalam Bahasa Inggris dari dokumen-dokumen ini tetap mengendalikan.

FOR ITALY EMPLOYEES ONLY 

No person resident or located in Italy other than the original recipients of this document and
any other document related to the Award(s) may rely on such documents or their content. The offer
of the Award(s) under the SIP (and the delivery of underlying shares) is exempted from prospectus
requirements under Italian securities legislation.

Under Italian regulations, tax payers must report in their annual tax returns any foreign financial
assets in excess of EUR 10,000. Please consult your own advisors regarding the terms and conditions
of this reporting obligation.

FOR MONACO EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting your Award(s), you expressly renounce the jurisdiction of Monaco (and, if
applicable, France and notably the application of articles 14 and 15 of the French Civil Code) in
connection with any dispute relating to your Award(s).

FOR RUSSIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

None of the information contained in the documents referred to in paragraph 8 of this signature
card or in this signature card constitutes an advertisement of the Award(s) in Russia and must not
be passed on to third parties or otherwise be made publicly available in Russia. The Award(s) have
not been and will not be registered in Russia and are not intended for  placement  or  public
circulation  in Russia.

FOR SWEDEN EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and accept that any transfer provisions (including,
where applicable, escrow and other similar provisions) in the SIP or any related documents do not
apply to you.

FOR UK EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This document is approved by Goldman Sachs International ( GSI ), Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet
Street, London EC4A 2BB, which is authorized

-3- 

and regulated by the Financial Services Authority. The
document relates to
investments and investment services of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and other institutions,
including BNY Mellon, relating to custodial and delivery operations. In some or all respects, the
regulatory system applying to these entities, including any compensation arrangements and rules
made under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 for the protection of private customers,
will be different from that of the United Kingdom.

This document does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial situation and
particular needs of any specific person who may receive it. Recipients should seek their own
financial advice.

The Award(s) is/are subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the SIP and the Award
Agreement. The price of shares and the income from such shares (if any) can fluctuate and may be
affected by changes in the exchange rate for U.S. Dollars. Past performance will not necessarily be
repeated. Levels and bases of taxation may change from time to time. Investors should consult their
own tax advisers in order to understand tax consequences. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. has (and
its associates, including GSI, may have) a material interest in the shares and the investments that
are the subject of this document.

Signature

Date: 

Print Name:

Employee ID #: 

-4- 

</EX-10.42>

<EX-10.51>
 10
 y81914exv10w51.htm
 EX-10.51: AMENDED GUARANTEE AGREEMENT BETWEEN GROUP INC. AND GS BANK

exv10w51 

Exhibit 10.51 

GUARANTEE AGREEMENT 

GUARANTEE AGREEMENT , originally dated as of November 28, 2008 (this      Agreement     ), and
amended effective as of January 1, 2010, between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., a Delaware
corporation (the      Parent     ), and Goldman Sachs Bank USA, a bank chartered under the Laws of
the State of New York (together with its predecessors, the      Bank     ).

RECITALS: 

WHEREAS, in connection with the Parent becoming a bank holding company under the U.S. Bank
Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, on September 21, 2008, Goldman Sachs Capital Markets,
L.P., a limited partnership organized under the laws of the State of New York, was merged with and
into The Goldman Sachs Trust Company, a limited-purpose trust chartered under the Laws of the State
of New York (     GS Trust     ), then Goldman Sachs Capital Markets L.L.C., a Delaware limited
liability company, was merged with and into GS Trust, and then Goldman Sachs Bank USA, an
industrial bank chartered under the Laws of the State of Utah, was merged with and into GS Trust,
in each case with GS Trust as the surviving entity (collectively, the      Merger     );

WHEREAS, upon consummation of the Merger, GS Trust changed its name to Goldman Sachs Bank USA
and received approval to become a member bank of the Federal Reserve System (the      Federal
Reserve System     ) and to expand its banking powers;

WHEREAS, the Bank is a wholly owned subsidiary of the Parent;

WHEREAS, in connection with the restructuring described above, the Board of Governors of the
Federal Reserve System (the      Federal Reserve Board     ) has provided guidance to the Bank via
teleconference and in a written summary, issued October 10, 2008, that sets forth the principal
terms of the exemption that it has granted to the Bank from the provisions of Section 23A of the
Federal Reserve Act, as amended (the      Section 23A Exemption     ), to permit the Parent or
another Affiliate to transfer certain assets to the Bank without complying with the provisions of
Regulation W that would otherwise apply to such transfers (such assets, as further defined below,
the      Transferred Assets     ), and indicated that it would provide to the Bank a formal written
statement of all the terms of the Section 23A Exemption in due course;

WHEREAS, as a further condition to granting the Section 23A Exemption, the Federal Reserve
Board has imposed the requirement that the Parent provide certain guarantees in respect of the
Transferred Assets, and the Parent has agreed to provide such guarantees (collectively, the
     Guarantee     );

WHEREAS, this Agreement is intended to satisfy that condition; and

WHEREAS, upon receipt by the Bank of the final written statement of the terms of the Section
23A Exemption, the parties hereto intended to amend this Agreement and the Collateral Agreement (as
defined below), as necessary, to reflect the terms of such Section 23A Exemption;

WHEREAS, by letter dated April 22, 2009, the Federal Reserve Board provided the above
described formal written statement describing the terms of the Section 23A Exemption, and the
parties hereby amend the terms of this Agreement to reflect the terms of such Section 23A Exemption
and consultations with the Federal Reserve Board;

NOW ,  THEREFORE , in consideration of the foregoing premises, and for other good and valuable
consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties to this
Agreement, intending to be legally bound, hereby agree as follows:

1. Definitions; Interpretation. 

(a) The following terms have the following meanings:

Action      means any claim, action, suit, arbitration or proceeding by or before
any Governmental Authority or arbitral body.

Affiliate      means any  affiliate  of the Bank, as defined in Regulation W.

Agreement      has the meaning given to that term in the Preamble.

Bank      has the meaning given to that term in the Preamble.

Bank Subsidiary      means any Subsidiary of the Bank.

Business Day      means any day that (x) is not a Saturday, a Sunday or other day
on which commercial banks in The City of New York, State of New York, are required or
authorized by Law to be closed and (y) is a day on which the New York Stock Exchange, Inc.
is open for trading during its regular trading session (notwithstanding its closing prior to
its scheduled closing time).

Collateral Agreement      means the Collateral Agreement, dated as of November 28,
2008, between the Bank and the Parent and certain of its Subsidiaries from time to time.

Credit-Related Losses      means any losses (any such loss to be calculated as the
difference, if negative, between the Original Transfer Value of such Transferred Asset and
its sale price) incurred upon the sale of any Transferred Assets by the Bank or any Bank
Subsidiary to any party other than the Bank or any other Bank Subsidiary, except to the
extent that the Bank determines, by reference to credit spreads applicable to the relevant
obligor and using the valuation methods used in the Bank s market and risk management
activities, that such losses do not arise from any deterioration in the creditworthiness of
any obligor in respect of such Transferred Asset.

Derivatives      means any swaps, options, futures, forwards, and other assets
arising from similar transactions.

Federal Reserve Board      has the meaning given to that term in the Recitals.

Federal Reserve System      has the meaning given to that term in the Recitals.

Governmental Authority      means any domestic or foreign governmental or
regulatory authority, agency, commission, body, court or other legislative, executive or
judicial governmental entity.

GS Trust      has the meaning given to that term in the Recitals.

Guarantee      has the meaning given to that term in the Recitals.

Law      means any federal, state, local or foreign law, statute or ordinance, or
any rule, regulation, standard or agency requirement, of any Governmental Authority.

Low-Quality Asset      has the meaning specified in Regulation W.

Merger      has the meaning given to that term in the Recitals.

Mortgage Servicing Rights      means the right to service a mortgage and collect a
fee.

2 

Non-Bank Subsidiary      means any Subsidiary of the Parent other than the Bank or
any Bank Subsidiary.

Original Transfer Value      means, with respect to any Transferred Asset, (x) if
that Transferred Asset was purchased by the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary from the Parent or
any Non-Bank Subsidiary, the purchase price paid by the Bank or such Bank Subsidiary for
such Transferred Asset, and (y) if that Transferred Asset was contributed to the Bank or any
Bank Subsidiary by the Parent or any Non-Bank Subsidiary, either directly or by contributing
the equity of or other interests in any Person that owns such Transferred Asset to the Bank
or any Bank Subsidiary, the fair value of the Transferred Asset as of the date initially
recognized by the Bank.

Parent      has the meaning given to that term in the Preamble.

Person      means a natural person, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, joint venture, trust, estate, unincorporated organization or Governmental
Authority.

Regulation W      means the Federal Reserve regulation pursuant to Section 23A
codified at 12 C.F.R. Part 223.

Section 23A Exemption      has the meaning given to that term in the Recitals.

Servicing Advances      means a payment of funds by the Bank, as servicer of a
mortgage pursuant to any Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights, for the purpose of
preserving collateral or enforcing rights.

Subsidiary      has the meaning given to that term in Regulation W.

Termination Date      means, with respect to any Transferred Asset, the earlier of
(x) the date on which all amounts due under or in respect of such Transferred Asset have
been paid in full, and (y) the date on which such Transferred Asset is sold by the Bank or
any Bank Subsidiary to any Person other than the Bank or any other Bank Subsidiary;
 provided, however,  that the Termination Date with respect to any Transferred Derivative
shall be the fifth anniversary of the date on which such Transferred Derivative was
transferred by the Parent or any Non-Bank Subsidiary to the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary.

Transferred Assets      has the meaning given to that term in the Recitals;
 provided, however,  that for the avoidance of doubt,      Transferred Assets      shall not
include any loans that are held by any Bank Subsidiary in which a participation has been
granted pursuant to the Master Participation Agreement entered into by certain Bank
Subsidiaries and certain Non-Bank Subsidiaries in connection with the Mergers.

Transferred Derivatives      means any Transferred Assets that are Derivatives.

Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights      means any Transferred Assets that are
Mortgage Servicing Rights.

(b) In interpreting this Agreement:

(i) words in the singular shall include the plural and vice versa, and words of one
gender shall include the other gender as the context requires;

(ii) references to Articles, Sections, paragraphs, Exhibits, Annexes and Schedules are
references to the Articles, Sections and paragraphs of, and Exhibits, Annexes and Schedules
to, this Agreement unless otherwise specified;

(iii) references to      $      shall mean U.S. dollars;

3 

(iv) the words      includes      and      including      and words of similar import
shall be deemed to be followed by the words      without limitation      unless otherwise
specified;

(v) the word      or      shall not be exclusive;

(vi) the words      herein     ,      hereof      and      hereunder     , and similar
terms, are to be deemed to refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any specific
section;

(vii) the headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and
shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement;

(viii) this Agreement shall be construed without regard to any presumption or rule
requiring construction or interpretation against the party drafting or causing any
instrument to be drafted;

(ix) if a word or phrase is defined, the other grammatical forms of such word or phrase
have a corresponding meaning; and

(x) references to any statute, listing rule, rule, standard, regulation or other law
(a) include a reference to the corresponding rules and regulations and (b) include a
reference to each of them as amended, modified, supplemented, consolidated, replaced or
rewritten from time to time; and

(xi) references to any section of any statute, listing rule, rule, standard, regulation
or other law include any successor to such section.

2. Parent Guarantee. 

The Guarantee shall consist of the following commitments of the Parent:

(a)  Repurchase of Low-Quality Assets. 

(i) The Parent hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to purchase or cause a
Non-Bank Subsidiary to purchase from the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary (A) any Transferred
Asset, other than any Transferred Derivative or Transferred Mortgage Servicing Right, that
becomes a Low-Quality Asset at any time subsequent to the transfer of such Transferred Asset
to the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary and prior to the Termination Date with respect to such
Transferred Asset, and (B) any Transferred Asset that the Federal Reserve Bank of New York
or the Federal Reserve Board may require the Parent to purchase in the discretion of the
staff of either the Federal Reserve Bank of New York or the Federal Reserve Board;

(ii) The purchase price payable by the Parent or Non-Bank Subsidiary for any
Transferred Asset pursuant to this Section 2(a) shall be the Original Transfer Value of the
Transferred Asset.

(iii) Any purchases required to be made pursuant to this Section 2(a) shall occur not
later than fifteen (15) days following the end of the calendar quarter (or otherwise as
promptly as practicable) in which the Transferred Asset became a Low-Quality Asset.

(b)  Reimbursement. 

(i)  Credit-Related Losses .

(A) The Parent hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to reimburse the
Bank or any Bank Subsidiary for any Credit-Related Losses incurred by the Bank or
such Bank Subsidiary upon the sale of any Transferred Asset other than a Transferred
Derivative or a Transferred Mortgage Servicing Right to any Person other than the
Bank or any other Bank Subsidiary.

4 

(B) The Parent shall pay all such reimbursements that it is required to pay to
the Bank pursuant to this Section 2(b)(i) no later than fifteen (15) days following
the end of the calendar quarter (or otherwise as promptly as practicable) in which
the sale was made.

(ii)  Derivatives .

(A) The Parent hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that, if the Bank
or any Bank Subsidiary downgrades the counterparty to any Transferred Derivative to
a seven or below in the Bank s internal credit rating system in any calendar quarter
during the five years immediately following the transfer of the Transferred
Derivative from the Parent or any Non-Bank Subsidiary to the Bank or any Bank
Subsidiary, the Parent will pay to the Bank or such Bank Subsidiary an amount equal
to any change in the credit valuation adjustment (minus the value of any hedge or
offsets held by the Bank or such Bank Subsidiary) relating to such Transferred
Derivative from the time of such transfer to the time of the downgrade.

(B) The Parent hereby further irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that, if
the counterparty to any Transferred Derivative defaults at any time during the five
years following the transfer of the Transferred Asset from Parent or any Non-Bank
Subsidiary to the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary, the Parent will pay the Bank or such
Bank Subsidiary an amount equal to the then-replacement cost of all of the Bank s
or such Bank Subsidiary s Transferred Derivative transactions with such
counterparty, net of proceeds from any liquidation of collateral applied by the
Bank or such Bank Subsidiary to the obligations of such counterparty under any such
Transferred Derivatives and any amounts recovered from the defaulting counterparty.

(C) In calculating the Parent s payment obligations upon a counterparty
default, as set forth in Section 2(b)(ii)(B), the Parent may reduce such
obligations:

(I) 
       
     by the amount of any previous
payment made by the Parent to the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary as
a result of an internal rating downgrade of the applicable
counterparty pursuant to Section 2(b)(ii)(A); 

(II) 
       
     to the extent that the Bank or any
Bank Subsidiary has received payment under any hedge or other
credit loss protection arrangement put in place with respect to
such Transferred Derivative (i) prior to the time at which such
Transferred Derivative was transferred to the Bank or any Bank
Subsidiary or (ii) after the time at which such Transferred
Derivative was transferred to the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary, if
the cost of such hedge or other credit loss protection
arrangement was paid by the Parent or any Non-Bank Subsidiary. 

In addition, to the extent that, after the time at which the Parent has made such a
payment to the Bank, the Bank receives payment under a hedge or other credit loss
protection arrangement meeting the criteria set forth in (i) or (ii) of the
foregoing clause (II) or otherwise receives payment from the defaulting
counterparty, the Bank or the relevant Bank Subsidiary shall reimburse the Parent
for any such payment so received by it.

(D) The Parent shall pay all such reimbursements that it is required to pay to
the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary pursuant to Section 2(b)(ii) no later than fifteen
(15) days following the end of the calendar quarter (or otherwise as promptly as
practicable) in which the derivatives counterparty is downgraded by the Bank or
such Bank Subsidiary or defaults, as applicable.

5 

(E) As an alternative to the Parent making any payment that would otherwise be
required pursuant to this Section 2(b)(ii), the Parent may, at its option, (I)
repurchase by way of assignment, novation, participation or total return swap the
Transferred Derivative in respect of which the Parent would be required to make
such payment for an amount equal to the Original Transfer Value of such Transferred
Derivative or (II) to the extent permitted under the Federal Reserve Board s final
written statement of the terms of the Section 23A Exemption, post collateral of the
type set forth in Section 223.42(c)(1) of Regulation W with respect to any
Transferred Derivative in an amount equal to the then-current replacement cost of
all the Bank s derivative transactions with the relevant counterparty minus the
value of any collateral held and/or the mark-to-market value notional amount of any
credit loss protection owned by the Bank, which collateral would be returned to the
Parent upon the expiration of the Transferred Derivative.

(iii)  Mortgage Servicing Rights. 

(A) The Parent hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees to reimburse the
Bank or any Bank Subsidiary an amount equal to any impairment recognized or direct
write-downs related to any Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights or related
Servicing Advances.

(B) The Parent shall pay all such reimbursements that it is required to pay to
the Bank pursuant to this Section 2(b)(iii) no later than thirty (30) days
following the end of the calendar quarter in which the impairment was recognized or
the write-down taken.

(C) The Bank will hold an amount of risk-based capital equal to the impairment
recognized or direct write-down taken on any Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights
or related Servicing Advances so long as the Bank retains ownership or control of
such Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights or Servicing Advances, in lieu of the
risk-based capital that would otherwise apply to a similar asset that is not a
Transferred Mortgage Servicing Right or related Servicing Advance.

(D) As an alternative to the Parent making any payment that would otherwise be
required pursuant to this Section 2(b)(iii) and the maintenance of capital by the
Bank in accordance with Section 2(b)(iii)(C), the Parent may, at its option,
purchase the applicable Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights and Servicing
Advances at an amount equal to the Original Transfer Value of such Transferred
Mortgage Servicing Rights or Servicing Advances, as applicable.

(E) In calculating the Parent s payment obligations pursuant to this Section
2(b)(iii), the Parent may reduce such obligations to the extent that the Bank or
any Bank Subsidiary has received payment under any hedge or other credit loss
protection arrangement put in place with respect to such Transferred Mortgage
Servicing Rights or Servicing Advances, as applicable, (i) prior to the time at
which such Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights or Servicing Advances, as
applicable, was transferred to the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary or (ii) after the
time at which such Transferred Mortgage Servicing Rights or Servicing Advances, as
applicable, was transferred to the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary, if the cost of such
hedge or other credit loss protection arrangement was paid by the Parent or any
Affiliate of the Parent other than the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary.

3. Collateral. 

The Parent shall secure its obligations pursuant to this Agreement as set forth in the
Collateral Agreement.

6 

4. Termination. 

This Agreement shall terminate on the Business Day after the Termination Date of the last
Transferred Asset held by the Bank or any Bank Subsidiary.

5. Notices. 

Unless otherwise provided herein, all notices and other communications provided to either
party under this Agreement shall be in writing and addressed to such party at its address as set
forth below. Unless otherwise provided herein, any notice, if mailed and properly addressed with
postage prepaid, shall be deemed given three (3) Business Days after being sent; if hand delivered,
shall be deemed given on the date of such delivery; and if delivered by overnight courier, shall be
deemed given on the date of such delivery.

If to the Parent: 
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 
200 West Street 
New York, New York 10282-2198 
Telephone: (212) 902-1000 
Attention: Treasury

If to the Bank: 
Goldman Sachs Bank USA 
85 Broad Street 
New York, New York 10004 
Telephone: (212) 902-1000 
Attention: General Counsel

or if on or after January 25, 2010,

Goldman Sachs Bank USA 
200 West Street 
New York, New York 10282-2198 
Telephone: (212) 902-1000 
Attention: General Counsel

6. Severability. 

If any term or other provision of this Agreement is invalid, illegal or incapable of being
enforced under any Law or as a matter of public policy, all other conditions and provisions of this
Agreement shall nevertheless remain in full force and effect so long as the economic or legal
substance of the transactions contemplated by this Agreement is not affected in any manner
materially adverse to any party to this Agreement. Upon such determination that any term or other
provision is invalid, illegal or incapable of being enforced, the parties to this Agreement shall
negotiate in good faith to modify this Agreement so as to effect the original intent of the parties
as closely as possible in a mutually acceptable manner in order that the transactions contemplated
by this Agreement be consummated as originally contemplated to the greatest extent possible.

7. Entire Agreement. 

This Agreement, together with the Collateral Agreement, constitutes the entire agreement of
the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement and supersedes all prior
agreements and undertakings, both written and oral.

7 

8. Assignment. 

This Agreement may not be assigned, in whole or in part, by either party, by operation of Law
or otherwise, without the express written agreement of the other party hereto. Any attempted
assignment in violation of this Section 8 shall be void, except that each party shall have the
right to assign all of its rights and obligations to any entity that succeeds, directly or
indirectly, to substantially all of such party s assets by merger or otherwise. This Agreement
shall be binding upon, shall inure to the benefit of, and shall be enforceable by the parties
hereto and their permitted successors and assigns.

9. Amendment or Modification. 

This Agreement may be amended or modified only by an agreement in writing executed by both of
the parties hereto;  provided  that the parties hereto agree that, upon receipt by the Bank of the
final written statement of the terms of the Section 23A Exemption, they shall amend this Agreement
as necessary to reflect the terms and conditions contained in such statement.

10. No Third-Party Beneficiaries. 

This Agreement is for the sole benefit of the parties to this Agreement and their permitted
successors and assigns and nothing in this Agreement, express or implied, is intended to or shall
confer upon any other person or party any legal or equitable right, benefit or remedy of any nature
whatsoever under or by reason of this Agreement.

11. Governing Law; Submission to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial. 

(a) This Agreement shall in all respects be governed by, and construed in accordance with, the
Laws of the State of New York.

(b) Each of the Parent and the Bank irrevocably and unconditionally:

(i) submits for itself and its property in any Action arising out of or relating to the
interpretation and enforcement of the provisions of this Agreement and of the documents
referred to in this Agreement and in respect of the transactions contemplated by this
Agreement, to the exclusive jurisdiction of the Courts of the State of New York sitting in
the County of New York, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New
York, and appellate courts having jurisdiction of appeals from any of the foregoing, and
agrees that all claims in respect of any such Action shall be heard and determined in such
New York State court or, to the extent permitted by Law, in such federal court;

(ii) consents that any such Action may and shall be brought in such courts and waives
any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the venue or jurisdiction of any such
Action in any such court or that such Action was brought in an inconvenient court and agrees
not to assert, plead or claim the same;

(iii) agrees that service of process in any such Action may be effected by mailing a
copy of such process by registered or certified mail (or any substantially similar form of
mail), postage prepaid, to such party at its address as provided in Section  and

(iv) agrees that nothing in this Agreement shall affect the right to effect service of
process in any other manner permitted by the Laws of the State of New York.

(c) EACH PARTY ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES THAT ANY CONTROVERSY THAT MAY ARISE UNDER THIS
AGREEMENT IS LIKELY TO INVOLVE COMPLICATED AND DIFFICULT ISSUES, AND THEREFORE EACH SUCH PARTY
HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY RIGHT SUCH PARTY MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN
RESPECT OF ANY LITIGATION DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT, OR
THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT.

8 

12. Counterparts. 

This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, and by the different parties to
each such agreement in separate counterparts, each of which when executed shall be deemed to be an
original but all of which taken together shall constitute one and the same agreement. Delivery of
an executed counterpart of a signature page to this Agreement by facsimile or in Portable Document
File (PDF) format shall be as effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this
Agreement.

9 

IN
WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Guarantee Agreement as of the date
set forth below.

Date:
 February 18, 2010

PARENT:   
 THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By: 
       
      /s/ Elizabeth Beshel 

Name: 
       
      Elizabeth Beshel 

Title: 
       
      Treasurer 

THE BANK:   
 GOLDMAN SACHS BANK USA  

By: 
       
      /s/ Stephen Davies 

Name: 
       
      Stephen Davies 

Title: 
       
      Chief Financial Officer 

Guarantee Agreement 

</EX-10.51>

<EX-10.53>
 11
 y81914exv10w53.htm
 EX-10.53: FORM OF PERFORMANCE-BASED ONE-TIME RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

exv10w53 

Exhibit 10.53 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  
                        PERFORMANCE-BASED ONE-TIME RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of this special     performance-based
one-time award (this  Award ) of restricted stock units ( One-time RSUs ) granted to you under The
Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of One-time RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be
delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common
Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.
  This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it to the
address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by
the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set
forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

3.
 Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of One-time
RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to receive delivery
of the Shares underlying your Outstanding One-time RSUs that are or become Vested, all other terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested One-time RSUs, and
failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result
of which no Shares underlying such Vested One-time RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Dates with respect to this Award shall be the dates specified (next to the
number or percentage of One-time RSUs) as such on your Award Statement. In accordance with
Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-3(d), the Firm may accelerate delivery to a date that
is up to 30 days before the Delivery Date specified on the Award Statement; provided, however, that
in no event shall you be permitted to designate, directly or indirectly, the taxable year of the
delivery.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15 and 16,
in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty
(30) Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of
Shares is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then
Outstanding One-time RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred
(which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry
credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the
Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or
any portion of your One-time RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or
other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include
such deliveries of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares may be made initially into an
escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the Firm and may be held in
that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such documentation as it may have
requested or until the Committee has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on
delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your
One-time RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other permitted
beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such terms and
conditions (which may include, without limitation, your executing any documents related to, and
your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow account) as the Firm may deem necessary or
appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide
that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares while held in
escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as
determined by the Firm in its discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying your then Outstanding
One-time RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your estate as soon as practicable after
the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to
the Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to
specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding One-time RSUs under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of One-time RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your One-time RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall terminate, such
One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be
delivered in respect thereof.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding One-time RSUs (whether or not Vested)
immediately shall terminate, such One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

-2- 

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, any offer letter, employment
agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm
are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding One-time RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm. For the avoidance
of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any amount you owe to the Firm
shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an agreement referred to in
Paragraph 4(b)(v) regardless of whether such obligation arises under a written agreement, and/or
(ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(ii).

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision in
Paragraph 4(b), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee determines that, during the
Firm s     fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or marketing of any product or service,
or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the purchase or sale of any security
or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the risk to the Firm or the
broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly analyzed such risk or
where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result of such
action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be expected to be,
a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial system, your
rights in respect of your One-time RSUs awarded as part of this Award (whether or not
Vested) immediately shall terminate, such One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no
Shares shall be

-3- 

delivered in respect thereof (and any Shares, Dividend Equivalents, or other
amounts paid or delivered to you in respect of this Award shall be subject to repayment in
accordance with Paragraph 5).

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

6.  Extended Absence. 

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be
waived with respect to any One-time RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such One-time RSUs shall
become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply.

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b) and 4(c), your rights in respect of
your Outstanding One-time RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) immediately
shall terminate, such Outstanding One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such
One-time RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit
participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity
(including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant,
agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise
determined by the Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b) will not apply if your
termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence is characterized by the Firm as
 involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general
waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be
prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including
any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good
reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment
by  mutual agreement. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraph 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months
thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for
Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding One-time RSUs, whether or not Vested,
shall be delivered.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each One-time RSU shall include a Dividend Equivalent
Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding One-time RSUs, at or after the time
of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date
for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less
applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect
of the Share underlying such Outstanding One-time RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent
Right shall be made only with respect to One-time RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record
date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the
Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or
delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash
(or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s
executing a sale of Shares delivered to

-4- 

you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you are an
individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s    
fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the One-time RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your One-time RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your One-time
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with your One-time RSU Award, including without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b) and 4(c), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding One-time RSUs would result in
an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding One-time RSUs;

-5- 

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any One-time RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a
result of which such One-time RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the case of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and
9(g)(ii) above, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash
payment in respect of, or delivery of the Shares underlying, your then Outstanding Vested One-time
RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment while you
continue to hold outstanding Vested One-time RSUs, you may be required to certify, from time to
time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. You
understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of any changes to your
address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are responsible for
obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive certification
materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by the deadline
specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your outstanding
One-time RSUs, as applicable, in accordance with Paragraphs 4(b)(iv).

10.  Right of Offset . Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of One-time RSUs may transfer some or all
of their One-time RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild,
parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece,
nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or
sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household
(other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the
beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than
50% of the voting interests.

-6- 

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern . 

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your One-time RSUs required by
this Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9 and
the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall occur
by March 15 of the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit such
conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Reg.
1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section 409A, to delay
delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to such later date as may be
permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction
with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your One-time RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with
respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted
under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of
Employment occurs; provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the
Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier
of the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under
Section 409A) the date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter
date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes
of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to

-7- 

termination of Employment mean a termination
of Employment from the Firm (as defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding One-time RSUs shall be paid
to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after
the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding One-time RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee
receives satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such
delivery or payment shall be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as
reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you
under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

16.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 457A . To the extent the
Committee or the Plan s committee that has been delegated certain authority by the Committee (the
 SIP Committee ) determines that (i) Section 457A of the Code or any guidance promulgated
thereunder ( Section 457A ) requires that, in order to qualify for the short-term deferral
exception from treatment as  deferred compensation  under Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code, the
documents governing an Award must specify that such Award will be delivered within the period set
forth in Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code and (ii) all or any portion of this Award is or becomes
subject to Section 457A, this Award Agreement will be deemed to be amended as of the Date of Grant
(as the Committee or the SIP Committee determines necessary or appropriate after consultation with
counsel) to provide that delivery of One-time RSUs will occur no later than 12 months after the end
of the taxable year in which the right to delivery is first no longer subject to a substantial risk
of forfeiture (as defined under Section 457A); provided, however, that no action or modification
will be permitted to the extent that such action or modification would cause such Award to fail to
satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of Section 409A or
otherwise would result in an additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect of such Award.

-8- 

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

By:

Name:   

Title:   

-9- 

</EX-10.53>

<EX-10.54>
 12
 y81914exv10w54.htm
 EX-10.54: FORM OF MAKE-WHOLE ONE-TIME RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

exv10w54 

Exhibit 10.54 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  
                        MAKE-WHOLE ONE-TIME RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of this special    make-whole
one-time award (this  Award ) of restricted stock units ( One-time RSUs ) granted to you under The
Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of One-time RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be
delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common
Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.
  This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it to the
address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by
the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set
forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of One-time
RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to receive delivery
of the Shares underlying your Outstanding One-time RSUs that are or become Vested, all other terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested One-time RSUs, and
failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result
of which no Shares underlying such Vested One-time RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Dates with respect to this Award shall be the dates specified (next to the
number or percentage of One-time RSUs) as such on your Award Statement. In accordance with
Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-3(d), the Firm may accelerate delivery to a date that
is up to 30 days before the Delivery Date specified on the Award Statement; provided, however, that
in no event shall you be permitted to designate, directly or indirectly, the taxable year of the
delivery.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15 and 16,
in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty
(30) Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of
Shares is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then
Outstanding One-time RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred
(which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry
credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the
Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or
any portion of your One-time RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or
other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include
such deliveries of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares may be made initially into an
escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the Firm and may be held in
that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such documentation as it may have
requested or until the Committee has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on
delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your
One-time RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other permitted
beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such terms and
conditions (which may include, without limitation, your executing any documents related to, and
your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow account) as the Firm may deem necessary or
appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide
that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares while held in
escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as
determined by the Firm in its discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying your then Outstanding
One-time RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your estate as soon as practicable after
the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to
the Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to
specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding One-time RSUs under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of One-time RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your One-time RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall terminate, such
One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding One-time RSUs (whether or not Vested)
immediately shall terminate, such One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

-2- 

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, any offer letter, employment
agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm
are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding One-time RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm. For the avoidance
of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any amount you owe to the Firm
shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an agreement referred to in
Paragraph 4(b)(v) regardless of whether such obligation arises under a written agreement, and/or
(ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(ii).

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision in
Paragraph 4(b), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee determines that, during the
Firm s    fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or marketing of any product or service,
or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the purchase or sale of any security
or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the risk to the Firm or the
broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly analyzed such risk or
where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result of such
action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be expected to be,
a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial system, your
rights in respect of your One-time RSUs awarded as part of this Award (whether or not
Vested) immediately shall terminate, such One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no
Shares shall be

-3- 

delivered in respect thereof (and any Shares, Dividend Equivalents, or other
amounts paid or delivered to you in respect of this Award shall be subject to repayment in
accordance with Paragraph 5).

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement and Downsizing. 

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined below), the condition set
forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any One-time RSUs that were Outstanding but
that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of
which such One-time RSUs shall become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or
otherwise,  Retirement  means termination of your Employment (other than for Cause) on or after the
Date of Grant at a time when (i) (A) the sum of your age plus years of service with the Firm (as
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 60 and (B) you have completed
at least ten (10) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion) or, if earlier, (ii) (A) you have attained age 50 and (B) you have completed at least 5
(five) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b) and 4(c), your rights in respect of
your Outstanding One-time RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) immediately
shall terminate, such Outstanding One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such
One-time RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit
participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity
(including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant,
agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise
determined by the Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b) will not apply if your
termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement is characterized by the Firm
as  involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general
waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be
prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including
any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good
reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment
by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your One-time RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such One-time RSUs shall
become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Whether
or not your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined by the
Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any
termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good
reason, will be solely by reason of a  downsizing. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraph 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months
thereafter the Firm
terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all
Shares underlying your then Outstanding One-time RSUs, whether or not Vested, shall be delivered.

-4- 

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each One-time RSU shall include a Dividend Equivalent
Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding One-time RSUs, at or after the time
of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date
for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less
applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect
of the Share underlying such Outstanding One-time RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent
Right shall be made only with respect to One-time RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record
date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the
Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
   fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the One-time RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your One-time RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your One-time
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses
associated with your One-time RSU Award, including without limitation, such brokerage costs or
other fees or expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

-5- 

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b) and 4(c), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding One-time RSUs would result in
an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding One-time RSUs;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any One-time RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a
result of which such One-time RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the case of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and
9(g)(ii) above, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash
payment in respect of, or delivery of the Shares underlying, your then Outstanding Vested One-time
RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment while you
continue to hold outstanding Vested One-time RSUs, you may be required to certify, from time to
time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. You
understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of any changes to your
address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are responsible for
obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive certification
materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by the deadline
specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your outstanding
One-time RSUs, as applicable, in accordance with Paragraphs 4(b)(iv).

10.  Right of Offset . Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan
as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award
Agreement shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET

-6- 

FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of One-time RSUs may transfer some or all
of their One-time RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild,
parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law,
son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any
person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these
persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons
(or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern . 

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your One-time RSUs required by
this Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b) and
(c) (execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9
and the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall
occur by March 15 of the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit
such conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Reg.
1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section 409A, to delay
delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to such later date as may be
permitted
under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction with
Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your One-time RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or

-7- 

payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with
respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted
under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of
Employment occurs; provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the
Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier
of the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under
Section 409A) the date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter
date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes
of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination
of Employment from the Firm (as defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding One-time RSUs shall be paid
to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after
the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding One-time RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee
receives satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such
delivery or payment shall be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as
reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you
under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

16.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 457A . To the extent the
Committee or the Plan s committee that has been delegated certain authority by the Committee (the
 SIP Committee ) determines that (i) Section 457A of the Code or any guidance promulgated
thereunder ( Section 457A ) requires that, in order to qualify for the short-term deferral
exception from treatment as  deferred
compensation  under Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code, the documents governing an Award must
specify that such Award will be delivered within the period set forth in Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of
the Code and (ii) all or any portion of this Award is or becomes subject to Section 457A, this
Award Agreement will be deemed to be amended as of the Date of Grant (as the Committee or the SIP
Committee determines necessary or appropriate after consultation with counsel) to provide that
delivery of One-time RSUs will occur no later than 12 months after the end of the taxable year in
which the right to delivery is first no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as
defined under Section 457A); provided, however, that no action or modification will be permitted

-8- 

to
the extent that such action or modification would cause such Award to fail to satisfy the
conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of Section 409A or otherwise would
result in an additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect of such Award.

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of
the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

By:

Name:   

Title:   

-9- 

</EX-10.54>

<EX-10.55>
 13
 y81914exv10w55.htm
 EX-10.55: FORM OF INCENTIVE ONE-TIME RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

exv10w55 

Exhibit 10.55 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  
                       INCENTIVE ONE-TIME RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of this special    incentive
one-time award (this  Award ) of restricted stock units ( One-time RSUs ) granted to you under The
Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of One-time RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be
delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common
Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.
  This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it to the
address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by
the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set
forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of One-time
RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to receive delivery
of the Shares underlying your Outstanding One-time RSUs that are or become Vested, all other terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested One-time RSUs, and
failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result
of which no Shares underlying such Vested One-time RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Dates with respect to this Award shall be the dates specified (next to the
number or percentage of One-time RSUs) as such on your Award Statement. In accordance with
Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-3(d), the Firm may accelerate delivery to a date that
is up to 30 days before the Delivery Date specified on the Award Statement; provided, however, that
in no event shall you be permitted to designate, directly or indirectly, the taxable year of the
delivery.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15 and 16,
in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more  than

thirty
(30) Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of
Shares is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then
Outstanding One-time RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred
(which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry
credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the
Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or
any portion of your One-time RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or
other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include
such deliveries of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares may be made initially into an
escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the Firm and may be held in
that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such documentation as it may have
requested or until the Committee has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on
delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your
One-time RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other permitted
beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such terms and
conditions (which may include, without limitation, your executing any documents related to, and
your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow account) as the Firm may deem necessary or
appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide
that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares while held in
escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as
determined by the Firm in its discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying your then Outstanding
One-time RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your estate as soon as practicable after
the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to
the Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to
specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding One-time RSUs under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of One-time RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your One-time RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall terminate, such
One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding One-time RSUs (whether or not Vested)
immediately shall terminate, such One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

-2- 

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, any offer letter, employment
agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm
are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding One-time RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm. For the avoidance
of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any amount you owe to the Firm
shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an agreement referred to in
Paragraph 4(b)(v) regardless of whether such obligation arises under a written agreement, and/or
(ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(ii).

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision in
Paragraph 4(b), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee determines that, during the
Firm s    fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or marketing of any product or service,
or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the purchase or sale of any security
or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the risk to the Firm or the
broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly analyzed such risk or
where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result of such
action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be expected to be,
a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial system, your
rights in respect of your One-time RSUs awarded as part of this Award (whether or not
Vested) immediately shall terminate, such One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no
Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof (and any Shares, Dividend Equivalents, or other
amounts paid or delivered to you in respect of this Award shall be subject to repayment in
accordance with Paragraph 5).

-3- 

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

6.  Extended Absence. 

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be
waived with respect to any One-time RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such One-time RSUs shall
become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply.

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b) and 4(c), your rights in respect of
your Outstanding One-time RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) immediately
shall terminate, such Outstanding One-time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such
One-time RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit
participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity
(including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant,
agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise
determined by the Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b) will not apply if your
termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence is characterized by the Firm as
 involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general
waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be
prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including
any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good
reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment
by  mutual agreement. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraph 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months
thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for
Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding One-time RSUs, whether or not Vested,
shall be delivered.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each One-time RSU shall include a Dividend Equivalent
Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding One-time RSUs, at or after the time
of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date
for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less
applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect
of the Share underlying such Outstanding One-time RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent
Right shall be made only with respect to One-time RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record
date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the
Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or
delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash
(or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s
executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you are an
individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s    
fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual,

-4- 

anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the One-time RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your One-time RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your One-time
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with your One-time RSU Award, including without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b) and 4(c), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding One-time RSUs would result in
an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding One-time RSUs;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any One-time RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a
result of which such One-time RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the case of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and
9(g)(ii) above, at the sole discretion

-5- 

of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash
payment in respect of, or delivery of the Shares underlying, your then Outstanding Vested One-time
RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment while you
continue to hold outstanding Vested One-time RSUs, you may be required to certify, from time to
time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. You
understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of any changes to your
address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are responsible for
obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive certification
materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by the deadline
specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your outstanding
One-time RSUs, as applicable, in accordance with Paragraphs 4(b)(iv).

10.  Right of Offset . Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of One-time RSUs may transfer some or all
of their One-time RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any child, stepchild, grandchild,
parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece,
nephew, mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or
sister-in-law, including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household
(other than a tenant or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the
beneficial interest, and any other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than
50% of the voting interests.

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

-6- 

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern . 

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your One-time RSUs required by
this Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9 and
the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall occur
by March 15 of the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit such
conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Reg.
1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section 409A, to delay
delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to such later date as may be
permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction
with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your One-time RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with
respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted
under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of
Employment occurs; provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the
Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier
of the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under
Section 409A) the date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter
date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes
of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination
of Employment from the Firm (as defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

-7- 

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding One-time RSUs shall be paid
to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after
the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding One-time RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee
receives satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such
delivery or payment shall be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as
reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you
under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

16.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 457A . To the extent the
Committee or the Plan s committee that has been delegated certain authority by the Committee (the
 SIP Committee ) determines that (i) Section 457A of the Code or any guidance promulgated
thereunder ( Section 457A ) requires that, in order to qualify for the short-term deferral
exception from treatment as  deferred compensation  under Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code, the
documents governing an Award must specify that such Award will be delivered within the period set
forth in Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code and (ii) all or any portion of this Award is or becomes
subject to Section 457A, this Award Agreement will be deemed to be amended as of the Date of Grant
(as the Committee or the SIP Committee determines necessary or appropriate after consultation with
counsel) to provide that delivery of One-time RSUs will occur no later than 12 months after the end
of the taxable year in which the right to delivery is first no longer subject to a substantial risk
of forfeiture (as defined under Section 457A); provided, however, that no action or modification
will be permitted to the extent that such action or modification would cause such Award to fail to
satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of Section 409A or
otherwise would result in an additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect of such Award.

-8- 

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. 

By:

Name:   

Title:   

-9- 

</EX-10.55>

<EX-10.56>
 14
 y81914exv10w56.htm
 EX-10.56: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS (EMPLOYEES IN ASIA EX CHINA)

exv10w56 

Exhibit 10.56 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.  
 Signature Card For            Awards (Asia) and the BNY Mellon Custody Account   
 and Consent to Receive Electronic Delivery  

IMPORTANT: PLEASE REVIEW, EXECUTE AND RETURN THIS FORM TO: EQUITY COMPENSATION 
(DIVISION OF HCM), 30 HUDSON STREET, 35TH FLOOR, JERSEY CITY, NJ 07302. 

YOU MUST PROPERLY EXECUTE THIS FORM TO ACKNOWLEDGE ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND  CONDITIONS OF
YOUR AWARD(S) AND RELATED MATTERS. 

1. I have received and agree to be bound by The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  SIP ) and the Award Agreement(s) applicable to me in connection with the
           Award(s) (the  Award(s) ) that I have been granted by the Firm (as defined in the
SIP). I confirm that I have accepted the Award(s) subject to the terms and conditions contained in
the SIP and the Award Agreement(s), including but not limited to, the requirement that disputes
relating to the Award(s) and the Award Agreement(s) be decided through arbitration in New York City
and be governed by New York law.

As a condition of this grant, I understand that the Award(s) (as well as any other award that the
Firm may grant to me under the SIP) is/are subject to other governing law provisions (as outlined
in this signature card, in the current or otherwise then current Award Summary (as defined below)
or otherwise as may be required under applicable law) and, as a condition to receiving such awards,
I agree to be bound thereby. I also understand that the Firm may grant to me other awards under the
SIP that also may contain (among other terms and conditions) arbitration and other governing law
provisions and, as a condition to receiving such awards, I agree to be bound thereby. As a
condition of this grant, I agree to provide upon request an appropriate certification regarding my
U.S. tax status on Form W-8BEN, Form W-9, or other appropriate form, and I understand that failure
to supply a required form may result in the imposition of backup withholding on certain payments I
receive pursuant to this grant.

Further, as a condition of this grant, if I am a person who has worked in the  United
Kingdom  at any time during the earnings period relating to any award under the SIP, as
determined by the Firm, when requested and as directed by the Firm, I will agree to a Joint
Election under s431 ITEPA 2003 of the laws of the United Kingdom for full or partial disapplication
of Chapter 2 Income Tax (Earnings and Pension) Act 2003 under the laws of the United Kingdom and
will sign and return such election in respect of all future deliveries of shares underlying the
Award(s) and any previous grants made to me under the SIP and understand that the Firm intends to
meet its delivery obligations in shares with respect to my Award(s), except as may be prohibited by
law or described in the accompanying Award Agreement or supplementary materials.

If I have worked in  Switzerland  at any time during the earnings period relating to the
Award(s) granted to me as determined by the Firm, (i) I acknowledge that my Award(s) are subject to
tax in accordance with the rulings and method of calculation of taxable values to be agreed by the
Firm with the Federal and/or Zurich/Geneva cantonal/communal tax authorities or as otherwise
directed by the Firm, and (ii) I hereby agree to be bound by any rulings agreed by the Firm in
respect of any Award(s), which is expected to result in taxation at the time of delivery of shares
(or cash or other property in lieu thereof), and (iii) I undertake to declare and make a full and
accurate income tax declaration in respect of my Award(s) in accordance with the above ruling or as
directed by the Firm.

I understand and acknowledge that any transfer provisions (including, where applicable, escrow and
other similar provisions, but specifically excluding any transfer restrictions imposed on any
Award(s) in the Award Agreement(s) or the SIP) in the SIP or related documents will not apply to me
(i) to the extent that the applicability of those provisions would affect the availability of
relevant exemptions or tax favorable treatment, or (ii) otherwise in circumstances determined by
the Firm in its sole discretion.

2. I have read and understand the Firm s  Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based
Awards  (the  Notice Policy ), pursuant to which I am required to provide certain specified advance
notice of my intent to leave employment with the Firm. I understand that in executing this form, I
will be agreeing to provide my employing entity with advance notice of my intention to leave
employment with the Firm as follows:

In the Americas, Japan and Asia Ex-Japan (excluding India): 60 days in advance of my
termination date 

In Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India: 90 days in advance of my termination date 

and that, where applicable (see the provisions in the Award Summary), the provisions of the Notice
Policy constitute a permanent change to my terms and conditions of employment. I agree to this
change in consideration of my continued employment with the Firm and my acceptance of the Award(s),
and I agree to be bound by the Notice Policy as in effect from time-to-time.

I also understand that the terms and conditions of my employment shall be permanently changed so
that, in the event that I resign from the Firm, the Firm may either:

Unilaterally waive or reduce the notice period otherwise applicable to my employment, or 

Take such other action as shall have that effect. 

I acknowledge that the Firm retains its right to bring forward the end of the notice period to such
earlier date, and that I will not be entitled to any salary, wages, or benefits after such earlier
date. In addition, I understand that I will not receive pay in lieu for any period of notice that
has been waived or reduced.

This agreement concerning my notice period is being made for and on behalf of my Goldman Sachs
employing entity, and implementation of the Notice Policy does not create an employment
relationship between me and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

I understand that unless the notice period is waived by agreement or unilaterally as set out above,
or I have exercised a statutory right to make a payment in lieu of my notice period, I will be paid
my base salary and will continue to receive all mandatory benefits during the notice period. I
understand that during my notice period I may (subject to any local laws to the contrary) be
required to remain away from the Firm s offices, and/or be removed from any assigned duties or
assigned to other suitable duties during my notice period.

I understand that if I fail to give the full amount of notice as set out above, or to comply in any
respect with the Notice Policy, I will have failed to meet an obligation I have under an agreement
with the Firm, as a result of which the Firm may have certain rights and I may be subject to
certain legal and equitable rights and remedies, including, without limitation, the forfeiture of
the Award(s) and any other awards granted to me (whether before or after the Award(s)) under the
SIP. The forfeiture of such Award(s) will also apply where I fail to give the full amount of notice
by exercising any right I may have under applicable legislation to make a payment in lieu of such
notice. I also understand that, if I fail to comply with the Notice Policy, the Firm may be
entitled to an injunction from a court restraining me from violating it.

I understand that, for employees of Archon Group, L.P., the Notice Policy applies only to Senior
Executives.

3. I have read and understand the Firm s hedging and pledging policies (including, without
limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS Shares, Equity Awards
and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and agree to be bound by them (with respect to
the Award(s) and any prior awards under the SIP), both during and following my employment with the
Firm.

4. If a custody account is required, I request that The Bank of New York Mellon ( BNY Mellon )
(successor in interest to Mellon Bank, N.A.) open a custody account for me as described in the
enclosed Custody Agreement among BNY Mellon (as successor in interest to Mellon Bank N.A.), The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and myself. I have received and agree to be bound by the Custody
Agreement (or any other such custody agreement previously entered into by me or on my behalf),
including the applicable restrictions on transfers, pledges and withdrawals of Common Stock, the
provisions permitting the Firm to monitor my custody account, and the limitations on the liability
of BNY Mellon and the Firm. I also agree to open an account with any other custodian or broker
selected by the Firm, if the Firm, in its sole discretion, requires me to open an account with such
custodian or broker as a condition to delivery of shares (or cash or other property) underlying the
Award(s).

5. If the Firm advanced or loaned me funds to pay certain taxes (including income taxes and Social
Security, or similar contributions) in connection with the Award(s) (or does so in the future), and
if I have not signed a separate loan agreement governing repayment, I authorize the Firm to
withhold from my compensation any amounts required to reimburse it for any such advance or loan to
the extent permitted by applicable law.

I understand and agree that, if I leave the Firm, I am required immediately to repay any
outstanding amount. I further understand and agree that the Firm has the right to offset, to the
extent permitted by the Award Agreement and applicable law (including Section 409A of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which limits the Firm s ability to offset in the case of
United States taxpayers under certain circumstances), any outstanding amounts that I then owe the
Firm against its delivery obligations under the Award(s) or against any

other amounts the Firm then
owes me. I understand that the delivery of shares pursuant to the Award(s) is conditioned on my
satisfaction of any applicable taxes or social security contributions (collectively referred to as
 tax  or  taxes  for
purposes of the SIP and all related documents) in accordance with the SIP. To the extent permitted
by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require me to provide amounts equal to all
or a portion of any Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on me or the
Firm in connection with the grant, vesting or delivery of the Award(s) by requiring me to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of shares delivered to me pursuant to the
Award(s). However, in no event shall any such choice or the choice specified in paragraph 6, below,
determine, or give me any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of shares or payment of
tax obligations. I understand and agree that the Firm may reduce any year-end cash bonus that I may
receive by an amount equal to the estimated Indian Fringe Benefit Tax applicable to any award
(whether or not vested), as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion.

6. If I am an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the
Firm s            fiscal year), I acknowledge and agree that the Firm may, in its sole discretion,
require (to the extent permitted by applicable law) that I provide for a reserve in an amount the
Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or potential
tax consequences related to my separate employment contracts by requiring me to choose between
remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deductions or otherwise) or (ii) in the form
of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of shares delivered to me pursuant to the Award(s) (or
any other of my awards outstanding under the SIP).

7. In connection with any Award Agreement or other interest I may receive in the SIP or any shares
of Common Stock of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. that I may receive in connection with the Award(s)
or any award I have previously received or may receive, or in connection with any amendment or
variation thereof or any documents listed in paragraph 8, I hereby consent to (a) the acceptance by
me of the Award(s) electronically, (b) the giving of instructions in electronic form whether by me
or the Firm, and (c) the receipt in electronic form at my email address maintained at Goldman Sachs
or via Goldman Sachs  intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, at such other
email address as I may specify, or via such other electronic means as the Firm and I may agree) all
notices and information that the Firm is required by law to send to me in connection therewith
including, without limitation, any document (or part thereof) constituting part of a prospectus
covering securities that have been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the
information contained in any such document and any information required to be delivered to me under
Rule 428 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, including, for example, the annual report to security
holders or the annual report on Form 10-K of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for its latest fiscal
year, and that all prior elections that I may have made relating to the delivery of any such
document in physical form are hereby revoked and superseded. I agree to check Goldman Sachs 
intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, such other electronic site as the Firm
and I may agree) periodically as I deem appropriate for any new notices or information concerning
the SIP. I understand that I am not required to consent to the receipt of such documents in
electronic form in order to receive the Award(s) and that I may decline to receive such documents
in electronic form by contacting Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 35th
Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, which will provide me with hard copies of
such documents upon request. I also understand that this consent is voluntary and may be revoked at
any time on three business days  written notice.

8. I hereby acknowledge that I have received in electronic form in accordance with my consent in
paragraph 7 the following documents:

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Summary of The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Custody Agreement with BNY Mellon; 

The            Annual Report for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.; 

The annual report on Form 10-K for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for the fiscal year
ended
                        ,
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
                        ; 

The Award Agreement(s); and 

Summaries of the Award(s) ( Award Summary ). 

9. I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any notifications,
filings or remittances of funds that may be required in connection with the SIP or otherwise on my
behalf. Further, if I am an employee who is resident in South Africa at a relevant time, by
accepting my Award(s), I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any
required notification on my behalf to the Reserve Bank of South Africa (or its authorized dealer)
in relation to my participation in the SIP and to any acquisition of shares for no consideration
under the SIP or other similar filing that may otherwise be required in South Africa. I acknowledge
that any such authorization is effective from the date of acceptance of my Award(s) until such time
as I expressly revoke the authorization by written notice to any appropriate representative of the
Firm. I understand that this authorization does not create any obligation on the Firm to deal with
any such notifications, filings or remittances of funds that I may be required to make in
connection with the SIP and I accept full responsibility in this regard.

Consent to Data Collection, Processing and Transfers: 

I understand and agree that in connection with the SIP and any other Firm benefit plan (the
 Programs ), to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, the Firm may
collect and process various data that is personal to me, including my name, address, work location,
hire date, Social Security or Social Insurance or taxpayer identification number (required for tax
purposes), type and amount of SIP or other benefit plan award, citizenship or residency (required
for tax purposes) and other similar information reasonably necessary for the administration of such
Programs (collectively referred to as  Information ) and provide such Information to its affiliates
and BNY Mellon (and its affiliates) or any other service provider, whether in the United States or
elsewhere, as is reasonably necessary for the administration of the Programs and under the laws of
these jurisdictions. I understand that, in certain circumstances, foreign courts, law enforcement
agencies or regulatory agencies may be entitled to access the Information. I understand that,
unless I explicitly authorize otherwise, the Firm, its affiliates and its service providers
(through their respective employees in charge of the relevant electronic and manual processing)
will use this Information only for purposes of administering the Programs. I understand that, in
the United States and in other countries to which such Information may be transferred for the
administration of the Programs, the level of data protection is not equivalent to data protection
standards in the member states of the European Union, Canada or certain Canadian provinces. I
understand that, upon request, to Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 35th
Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, to the extent required under the laws of
the applicable jurisdiction, I may have access to and obtain communication of the Information and
may exercise any of my rights in respect of such Information, including objecting to the processing
of the Information and requesting that the Information be corrected (if wrong), completed or
clarified (if incomplete or equivocal), or erased (if cannot legally be collected or kept). Upon
request, to the extent required under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, Equity Compensation
(division of HCM) will also provide me, free of charge, with a list of all the service providers
used in connection with the Programs at the time of request. I understand that, if I refuse to
authorize the use and transfer of the Information consistent with the above, I may not benefit from
the Programs. I authorize the use and transfer of the Information consistent with the above for the
period of administration of the Programs. In particular, I authorize (within the limits described
above): (i) the data processing by the Firm (which means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates); (ii) the data processing by BNY Mellon and its affiliates; (iii) the
data processing by the Firm s other service providers; and (iv) the data transfer to the United
States and other countries. I further acknowledge that the Information may be retained by such
persons beyond the period of administration of the Programs to the extent permitted under the laws
of the applicable jurisdiction and I so authorize. 

Other Legal Notices: 

FOR AUSTRALIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ( GS Inc. ) undertakes that it will, at any time until the
Delivery Date, within a reasonable period of you so requesting, provide you with a copy of the
rules of the SIP and/or the Australian dollar equivalent of the market price of GS Inc. s shares.
This information may be obtained by sending a written request to Head of Securities Compliance   GS
JBWere.

Any advice given by GS Inc. in connection with the SIP is general advice only. Nothing in the
documentation is to be taken to constitute a recommendation or statement of opinion that is
intended to influence a person or persons in making a decision to accept an Award and you should
consider obtaining your own financial product and/or legal advice from an independent person. The
documentation does not take into account the objectives, financial situation or needs of any
particular person. Before acting on the information contained in the documentation, or making a
decision to participate, you should seek professional advice as to whether participation is
appropriate in light of you personal circumstances.

FOR THE PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF CHINA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

All documentation in relation to the Award(s) is intended for your personal use and in your
capacity as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) and is being given to you solely for the
purpose of providing you with information concerning the Award(s) which the Firm may grant to you
as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) in accordance with the terms of the SIP, this
documentation and the applicable Award Agreement(s). The grant of the Award(s) has not been and
will not be registered with the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of
China pursuant to relevant securities laws and regulations, and the Award(s) may not be offered or
sold within the mainland of the People s Republic of China by means of any of the documentation in
relation

-2- 

to the Award(s) through a public offering or in circumstances which require a registration
or approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of China in
accordance with the relevant securities laws and regulations.

FOR HONG KONG EMPLOYEES ONLY 

WARNING:

The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. You
are advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer. If you are in doubt about any of the
contents of this document, you should obtain independent professional advice.

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and accept that you will not be permitted to transfer
awards to persons who fall outside the definition of  qualifying persons  in the Companies
Ordinance ( i.e ., a person who is not a current or former director, employee, officer, consultant of
the Firm or a person other than the offeree s wife, husband, widow, widower, child or step-child
under the age of 18 years, or as otherwise defined), even if otherwise permitted under the SIP or
any of the related documents.

FOR INDIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This website does not invite offers from the public for subscription or purchase of the
securities of any body corporate under any law for the time being in force in India. The website is
not a prospectus under the applicable laws for the time being in force in India. Goldman Sachs does
not intend to market, promote, invite offers for subscription or purchase of the securities of any
body corporate by this website. The information provided on this website is for the record only.
Any person who subscribes or purchases securities of any body corporate should consult his own
investment advisers before making any investments. Goldman Sachs shall not be liable or responsible
for any such investment decision made by any person.

FOR INDONESIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with Bahasa Indonesia
translations of the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original
English version of these documents controls.

Dengan menerima Putusan, Anda menyatakan bahwa Perusahaan telah memberikan Anda terjemahan Bahasa
Indonesia dari Ikhtisar Putusan, Perjanjian Putusan dan Perjanjian dengan Tanda Tangan, tapi versi
asli dalam Bahasa Inggris dari dokumen-dokumen ini tetap mengendalikan.

NON-COMPETITION AND NON-SOLICITATION RESTRICTIONS FOR EMPLOYEES PROVIDING SERVICES IN
AUSTRALIA, HONG KONG, INDIA, INDONESIA, JAPAN, KOREA, MALAYSIA, SINGAPORE AND TAIWAN 

In addition to and without limiting any provisions in the SIP or the applicable Award
Agreement(s) (including without limitation the Award forfeiture, termination or repayment
provisions), I hereby agree to and acknowledge the following:

(a) If I am providing services to the Firm in Australia, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea,
Malaysia, Singapore or Taiwan (  GS Asia excluding PRC  ), in view of my importance to the Firm, I
hereby agree that the Firm would likely suffer significant harm from me competing with the Firm for
some period of time after my employment ends. Accordingly, I hereby agree that I will not, without
the written consent of the Firm, during the Restricted Period in the Geographic Area:

(i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest
in, any Covered Competitive Enterprise; or

(ii) associate (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner,
director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Covered Competitive Enterprise and in connection
with such association engage in, or directly or indirectly manage or supervise personnel engaged
in, any activity:

A. which is similar or substantially related to any activity in which I was engaged, in whole
or in part, at the Firm,

B. for which I had direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility at the Firm, or

C. which calls for the application of the same or similar specialized knowledge or skills as
those utilized by me in my activities with the Firm,

at any time during the one-year period immediately prior to the end of the Employment Period, and,
in any such case, irrespective of the purpose of the activity or whether the activity is or was in
furtherance of advisory, agency, proprietary or fiduciary business of either the Firm or the
Covered Competitive Enterprise.

(By way of example only, this provision precludes an  advisory  investment banker from joining a
leveraged-buyout firm, a research analyst from becoming a proprietary trader or joining a hedge
fund, or an information systems professional from joining a management or other consulting firm and
providing information technology consulting services or advice to any Covered Competitive
Enterprise, in each case without the written consent of the Firm.)

(b) I hereby agree that during the Restricted Period, I will not, in any manner, directly or
indirectly, (1) Solicit a Covered Client to transact business with a Covered Competitive Enterprise
or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the Firm, or (2) interfere with or damage (or
attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship between the Firm and a Covered Client.

(c) I hereby agree that during the Restricted Period, I will not, in any manner, directly or
indirectly:

(i) Solicit any Covered Personnel to resign from the Firm or to apply for or accept
employment, consultancy, partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive
Enterprise;

(ii) hire or participate in the hiring of any Covered Personnel (whether as an employee,
consultant, or otherwise) by a Covered Competitive Enterprise;

(iii) participate in the decision to offer Covered Personnel employment, consultancy,
admission into partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive Enterprise; or

(iv) participate in the identification of Covered Personnel for potential hiring, consultancy
or admission into partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive Enterprise.

I acknowledge that I will have violated this provision if, during the Restricted Period, any
Covered Personnel are Solicited, hired, made a consultant or are accepted into partnership,
membership or similar status:

(i) by any Covered Competitive Enterprise which I form, which bears my name, or in which I am
an owner, a partner, a member or have similar status; or

(ii) by any Covered Competitive Enterprise, and I have, or are intended to have, managerial
or supervisory responsibility for such Covered Personnel.

(d) I acknowledge and agree that these Restrictions form part of my terms and conditions of
employment. I also acknowledge and agree that these Restrictions supersede any restrictions that I
may be subject to under the non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions for employees
providing services in Hong Kong, Singapore, India, Taiwan, Indonesia, Korea and Japan as set out in
(a) to (n) of the Signature Card For            Year-End Awards (Asia) and the BNY Mellon Custody Account
and Consent to Receive Electronic Delivery.

(e) Prior to accepting employment with any other person or entity during the Restricted Period, I
will provide any prospective employer with written notice of these Restrictions with a copy
containing the prospective employer s name and contact information delivered simultaneously to the
Firm.

(f) I understand that the Restrictions may limit my ability to earn a livelihood in a business
similar to the business of the Firm. I acknowledge that a violation on my part of any of the
Restrictions would cause immeasurable and irreparable damage to the Firm. Accordingly, I agree
that the Firm will be entitled to injunctive relief in any court of competent jurisdiction for any
actual or threatened violation of any of Restrictions in addition to any other remedies it may
have. I also acknowledge that a violation of any of the Restrictions would constitute my failure
to meet an obligation I have under an agreement between me and the Firm that was entered into in
connection with my employment with the Firm, and may constitute  Cause  for purposes of any
equity-based awards granted to me by the Firm and will result in my forfeiting such equity-based
awards.

(g) If any provision (or part of a provision) of the Restrictions is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision
will be deemed modified or severed to the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity,
illegality or unenforceability and the remaining such provisions will not be affected thereby;
provided, however, that if any of the Restrictions are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid, illegal or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum time period such court
determines is acceptable to permit such provision to be enforceable, such Restrictions will be
deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such time period in order to make
such provision enforceable hereunder.

(h) The promises contained in the Restrictions are provided by me for the benefit of each Firm
entity and I acknowledge and agree that each Firm entity may independently enforce the Restrictions
against me. Any benefit that I give or am deemed to have given by virtue of the Restrictions is
received jointly and severally by each Firm entity (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any Firm
entity to which I provide services from time to time).

(i) For the purposes of the Restrictions, The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. enters into the SIP and
Award Agreements applicable to me in connection with

-3- 

the Awards in its own capacity and as agent
for each other Firm entity. The consideration for the promises in these Restrictions is given to
me by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. on its own behalf and on behalf of each other Firm entity
(including, for the avoidance of doubt, any Firm entity to which I provide services from time to
time).

(j) I acknowledge that the Restrictions set out in this clause are reasonable and necessary for the
protection of the legitimate interests of the
Firm, and that, having regard to those interests, such restrictions do not impose an unreasonable
burden on me.

(k) The Restrictions shall remain in full force and effect and survive the termination of my
employment for any reason whatsoever.

(l) If I am a Managing Director subject to a Managing Director Agreement, the Restrictions shall
not apply to me.

(m) If I am a Private Wealth Management employee subject to an Employee Agreement Regarding
Confidential and Proprietary Information and Materials and Non-Solicitation, I will not be subject
to the restrictions contained in clauses (b) and (c) of the Restrictions.

(n) For the purposes of these Restrictions only, the following terms have the following meanings:

Asia   means Australia, the PRC, Hong Kong SAR, Taiwan, Japan, Korea, India, Singapore,
Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines, Brunei and Vietnam.

Covered Client   means any client or prospective client of the Firm (i) to whom I provided
services in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period, or (ii) for whom I transacted
business in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period, or (iii) whose identity became
known to me in connection with my relationship with or employment by the Firm in the 12 months
prior to the end of the Employment Period and with respect to whom I had access to confidential
information.

Covered Competitive Enterprise   means a business enterprise that (i) engages in any activity,
or (ii) owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity that, in
either case, competes anywhere with any activity in which the Firm is engaged. The activities
covered by the previous sentence include, without limitation, financial services such as investment
banking, public or private finance, lending, financial advisory services, private investing (for
anyone other than me and members of my family), merchant banking, asset or hedge fund management,
insurance or reinsurance underwriting or brokerage, property management, or securities, futures,
commodities, energy, derivatives or currency brokerage, sales, lending, custody, clearance,
settlement or trading.

Employment Period   means the period from the commencement of my employment with, or transfer,
assignment or secondment to, any member of the Firm in GS Asia excluding PRC and ending with the
date of termination of my employment with, or transfer, assignment or secondment to, any such
member of the Firm in GS Asia excluding PRC. For the purposes of the definition of  Employment
Period  in these Restrictions, the Employment Period does not terminate when I commence employment
with, or am transferred, assigned or seconded to, another member of the Firm in GS Asia excluding
PRC.

Covered Extended Absence   means my absence from active employment for at least 180 days in
any 12-month period as a result of my incapacity due to mental or physical illness, as determined
by the Firm.

Firm   means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates and its and their
respective successors.

Geographic Area   means (i) the jurisdiction in Asia in which I am located as of the date of
execution of this signature card; and/or (ii) any other jurisdiction in Asia in relation to which I
have substantial product and/or geographical market responsibilities; and/or (iii) any other
jurisdiction in Asia in relation to which I have substantial employee managerial responsibilities
in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period; and/or (iv) any other jurisdiction in
Asia in relation to which I provide services in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment
Period.

Notice Date   means the date on which either I or the Firm gives notice of (i) the conclusion
of my transfer, assignment or secondment to any member of the Firm in GS Asia excluding PRC, or
(ii) the termination of my employment with any member of the Firm in GS Asia excluding PRC or, if
the termination is for cause or Covered Extended Absence, the date on which such termination
occurs; or (iii) if I repudiate my employment contract, any earlier date as determined by the Firm
in its sole discretion. For the purposes of the definition of  Notice Date  in these
Restrictions, the Notice Date does not commence where I am transferring to another Firm entity in
GS Asia excluding PRC.

PRC   means, for the purpose of the Restrictions, the People s Republic of China, excluding
Hong Kong SAR, Macau SAR and Taiwan.

Restricted Period   means (i) during the Employment Period; and (ii) for the period of notice
in my employment contract or the period stated in this signature card commencing from the Notice
Date (whichever is longer), irrespective of whether the termination is for cause or Covered
Extended Absence or whether I receive a payment in lieu of all or part of that notice period or
whether I make a payment in lieu of all or part of that notice period pursuant to a statutory
entitlement or with the Firm s agreement.

Restrictions   means the non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions for employees
providing services in Australia, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and
Taiwan as set out in (a) to (o) of this section of this signature card.

Covered Personnel   means any Firm employee, consultant or Managing Director with whom I had
material contact or dealings in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period or in
relation to whom I had access to confidential information.

Solicit   means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by
whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner,
to take or refrain from taking any action.

(o) These Restrictions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the
jurisdiction in which I am located and providing services to the Firm at the date of execution of
this signature card.

Signature

Date: 

Print Name:

Employee ID #: 

-4- 

</EX-10.56>

<EX-10.57>
 15
 y81914exv10w57.htm
 EX-10.57: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS (EMPLOYEES IN CHINA)

exv10w57 

Exhibit 10.57 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.  
 Signature Card For            Awards (China) and the BNY Mellon Custody Account   
 and Consent to Receive Electronic Delivery  

IMPORTANT: PLEASE REVIEW, EXECUTE AND RETURN THIS FORM TO: EQUITY COMPENSATION 
(DIVISION OF HCM), 30 HUDSON STREET, 35TH FLOOR, JERSEY CITY, NJ 07302. 

YOU MUST PROPERLY EXECUTE THIS FORM TO ACKNOWLEDGE ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND  CONDITIONS OF
YOUR AWARD(S) AND RELATED MATTERS. 

1. I have received and agree to be bound by The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  SIP ) and the Award Agreement(s) applicable to me in connection with the
           Award(s) (the  Award(s) ) that I have been granted by the Firm (as defined in the
SIP). I confirm that I have accepted the Award(s) subject to the terms and conditions contained in
the SIP and the Award Agreement(s), including but not limited to, the requirement that disputes
relating to the Award(s) and the Award Agreement(s) be decided through arbitration in New York City
and be governed by New York law.

As a condition of this grant, I understand that the Award(s) (as well as any other award that the
Firm may grant to me under the SIP) is/are subject to other governing law provisions (as outlined
in this signature card, in the current or otherwise then current Award Summary (as defined below)
or otherwise as may be required under applicable law) and, as a condition to receiving such awards,
I agree to be bound thereby. I also understand that the Firm may grant to me other awards under the
SIP that also may contain (among other terms and conditions) arbitration and other governing law
provisions and, as a condition to receiving such awards, I agree to be bound thereby. As a
condition of this grant, I agree to provide upon request an appropriate certification regarding my
U.S. tax status on Form W-8BEN, Form W-9, or other appropriate form, and I understand that failure
to supply a required form may result in the imposition of backup withholding on certain payments I
receive pursuant to this grant.

Further, as a condition of this grant, if I am a person who has worked in the  United
Kingdom  at any time during the earnings period relating to any award under the SIP, as
determined by the Firm, when requested and as directed by the Firm, I will agree to a Joint
Election under s431 ITEPA 2003 of the laws of the United Kingdom for full or partial disapplication
of Chapter 2 Income Tax (Earnings and Pension) Act 2003 under the laws of the United Kingdom and
will sign and return such election in respect of all future deliveries of shares underlying the
Award(s) and any previous grants made to me under the SIP and understand that the Firm intends to
meet its delivery obligations in shares with respect to my Award(s), except as may be prohibited by
law or described in the accompanying Award Agreement or supplementary materials.

If I have worked in  Switzerland  at any time during the earnings period relating to the
Award(s) granted to me as determined by the Firm, (i) I acknowledge that my Award(s) are subject to
tax in accordance with the rulings and method of calculation of taxable values to be agreed by the
Firm with the Federal and/or Zurich/Geneva cantonal/communal tax authorities or as otherwise
directed by the Firm, and (ii) I hereby agree to be bound by any rulings agreed by the Firm in
respect of any Award(s), which is expected to result in taxation at the time of delivery of shares
(or cash or other property in lieu thereof), and (iii) I undertake to declare and make a full and
accurate income tax declaration in respect of my Award(s) in accordance with the above ruling or as
directed by the Firm.

I understand and acknowledge that any transfer provisions (including, where applicable, escrow and
other similar provisions, but specifically excluding any transfer restrictions imposed on any
Award(s) in the Award Agreement(s) or the SIP) in the SIP or related documents will not apply to me
(i) to the extent that the applicability of those provisions would affect the availability of
relevant exemptions or tax favorable treatment, or (ii) otherwise in circumstances determined by
the Firm in its sole discretion.

2. I have read and understand the Firm s  Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based
Awards  (the  Notice Policy ), pursuant to which I am required to provide certain specified advance
notice of my intent to leave employment with the Firm. I understand that in executing this form, I
will be agreeing to provide my employing entity with advance notice of my intention to leave
employment with the Firm as follows:

In the Americas, Japan and Asia Ex-Japan (excluding India): 60 days in advance of my
termination date 

In Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India: 90 days in advance of my termination date 

and that, where applicable (see the provisions in the Award Summary), the provisions of the Notice
Policy constitute a permanent change to my terms and conditions of employment. I agree to this
change in consideration of my continued employment with the Firm and my acceptance of the Award(s),
and I agree to be bound by the Notice Policy as in effect from time-to-time.

I also understand that the terms and conditions of my employment shall be permanently changed so
that, in the event that I resign from the Firm, the Firm may either:

Unilaterally waive or reduce the notice period otherwise applicable to my employment, or 

Take such other action as shall have that effect. 

I acknowledge that the Firm retains its right to bring forward the end of the notice period to such
earlier date, and that I will not be entitled to any salary, wages, or benefits after such earlier
date. In addition, I understand that I will not receive pay in lieu for any period of notice that
has been waived or reduced.

This agreement concerning my notice period is being made for and on behalf of my Goldman Sachs
employing entity, and implementation of the Notice Policy does not create an employment
relationship between me and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

I understand that unless the notice period is waived by agreement or unilaterally as set out above,
or I have exercised a statutory right to make a payment in lieu of my notice period, I will be paid
my base salary and will continue to receive all mandatory benefits during the notice period. I
understand that during my notice period I may (subject to any applicable laws to the contrary) be
required to remain away from the Firm s offices, and/or be removed from any assigned duties or
assigned to other suitable duties during my notice period.

I understand that if I fail to give the full amount of notice as set out above, or to comply in any
respect with the Notice Policy, I will have failed to meet an obligation I have under an agreement
with the Firm, as a result of which the Firm may have certain rights and I may be subject to
certain legal and equitable rights and remedies, including, without limitation, the forfeiture of
the Award(s) and any other awards granted to me (whether before or after the Award(s)) under the
SIP. The forfeiture of such Award(s) will also apply where I fail to give the full amount of notice
by exercising any right I may have under applicable legislation to make a payment in lieu of such
notice. I also understand that, if I fail to comply with the Notice Policy, the Firm may be
entitled to an injunction from a court restraining me from violating it.

I understand that, for employees of Archon Group, L.P., the Notice Policy applies only to Senior
Executives.

3. I have read and understand the Firm s hedging and pledging policies (including, without
limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS Shares, Equity Awards
and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and agree to be bound by them (with respect to
the Award(s) and any prior awards under the SIP), both during and following my employment with the
Firm.

4. If a custody account is required, I request that The Bank of New York Mellon ( BNY Mellon )
(successor in interest to Mellon Bank, N.A.) open a custody account for me as described in the
enclosed Custody Agreement among BNY Mellon (as successor in interest to Mellon Bank N.A.), The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., and myself. I have received and agree to be bound by the Custody
Agreement (or any other such custody agreement previously entered into by me or on my behalf),
including the applicable restrictions on transfers, pledges and withdrawals of Common Stock, the
provisions permitting the Firm to monitor my custody account, and the limitations on the liability
of BNY Mellon and the Firm. I also agree to open an account with any other custodian or broker
selected by the Firm, if the Firm, in its sole discretion, requires me to open an account with such
custodian or broker as a condition to delivery of shares (or cash or other property) underlying the
Award(s).

5. If the Firm advanced or loaned me funds to pay certain taxes (including income taxes and Social
Security, or similar contributions) in connection with the Award(s) (or does so in the future), and
if I have not signed a separate loan agreement governing repayment, I authorize the Firm to
withhold from my compensation any amounts required to reimburse it for any such advance or loan to
the extent permitted by applicable law.

I understand and agree that, if I leave the Firm, I am required immediately to repay any
outstanding amount. I further understand and agree that the Firm has the right to offset, to the
extent permitted by the Award Agreement and applicable law (including Section 409A of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as

amended, which limits the Firm s ability to offset in the case of United States taxpayers under
certain circumstances), any outstanding amounts that I then owe the Firm against its delivery
obligations under the Award(s) or against any other amounts the Firm then owes me. I understand
that the delivery of shares pursuant to the Award(s) is conditioned on my satisfaction of any
applicable taxes or social security contributions (collectively referred to as  tax  or  taxes  for
purposes of the SIP and all related documents) in accordance with the SIP. To the extent permitted
by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require me to provide amounts equal to all
or a portion of any Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on me or the
Firm in connection with the grant, vesting or delivery of the Award(s) by requiring me to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of shares delivered to me pursuant to the
Award(s). However, in no event shall any such choice or the choice specified in paragraph 6, below,
determine, or give me any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of shares or payment of
tax obligations. I understand and agree that the Firm may reduce any year-end cash bonus that I may
receive by an amount equal to the estimated Indian Fringe Benefit Tax applicable to any award
(whether or not vested), as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion.

6. If I am an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the
Firm s            fiscal year), I acknowledge and agree that the Firm may, in its sole discretion,
require (to the extent permitted by applicable law) that I provide for a reserve in an amount the
Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or potential
tax consequences related to my separate employment contracts by requiring me to choose between
remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deductions or otherwise) or (ii) in the form
of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of shares delivered to me pursuant to the Award(s) (or
any other of my awards outstanding under the SIP).

7. In connection with any Award Agreement or other interest I may receive in the SIP or any shares
of Common Stock of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. that I may receive in connection with the Award(s)
or any award I have previously received or may receive, or in connection with any amendment or
variation thereof or any documents listed in paragraph 8, I hereby consent to (a) the acceptance by
me of the Award(s) electronically, (b) the giving of instructions in electronic form whether by me
or the Firm, and (c) the receipt in electronic form at my email address maintained at Goldman Sachs
or via Goldman Sachs  intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, at such other
email address as I may specify, or via such other electronic means as the Firm and I may agree) all
notices and information that the Firm is required by law to send to me in connection therewith
including, without limitation, any document (or part thereof) constituting part of a prospectus
covering securities that have been registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the
information contained in any such document and any information required to be delivered to me under
Rule 428 of the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, including, for example, the annual report to security
holders or the annual report on Form 10-K of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for its latest fiscal
year, and that all prior elections that I may have made relating to the delivery of any such
document in physical form are hereby revoked and superseded. I agree to check Goldman Sachs 
intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, such other electronic site as the Firm
and I may agree) periodically as I deem appropriate for any new notices or information concerning
the SIP. I understand that I am not required to consent to the receipt of such documents in
electronic form in order to receive the Award(s) and that I may decline to receive such documents
in electronic form by contacting Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 35th
Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, which will provide me with hard copies of
such documents upon request. I also understand that this consent is voluntary and may be revoked at
any time on three business days  written notice.

8. I hereby acknowledge that I have received in electronic form in accordance with my consent in
paragraph 7 the following documents:

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Summary of The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Custody Agreement with BNY Mellon; 

The            Annual Report for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.; 

The annual report on Form 10-K for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for the fiscal year
ended
                     ,
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on                      ; 

The Award Agreement(s); and 

Summaries of the Award(s) ( Award Summary ). 

9. I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any notifications,
filings or remittances of funds that may be required in connection with the SIP or otherwise on my
behalf. Further, if I am an employee who is resident in South Africa at a relevant time, by
accepting my Award(s), I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any
required notification on my behalf to the Reserve Bank of South Africa (or its authorized dealer)
in relation to my participation in the SIP and to any acquisition of shares for no consideration
under the SIP or other similar filing that may otherwise be required in South Africa. I acknowledge
that any such authorization is effective from the date of acceptance of my Award(s) until such time
as I expressly revoke the authorization by written notice to any appropriate representative of the
Firm. I understand that this authorization does not create any obligation on the Firm to deal with
any such notifications, filings or remittances of funds that I may be required to make in
connection with the SIP and I accept full responsibility in this regard.

Consent to Data Collection, Processing and Transfers: 

I understand and agree that in connection with the SIP and any other Firm benefit plan (the
 Programs ), to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, the Firm may
collect and process various data that is personal to me, including my name, address, work location,
hire date, Social Security or Social Insurance or taxpayer identification number (required for tax
purposes), type and amount of SIP or other benefit plan award, citizenship or residency (required
for tax purposes) and other similar information reasonably necessary for the administration of such
Programs (collectively referred to as  Information ) and provide such Information to its affiliates
and BNY Mellon (and its affiliates) or any other service provider, whether in the United States or
elsewhere, as is reasonably necessary for the administration of the Programs and under the laws of
these jurisdictions. I understand that, in certain circumstances, foreign courts, law enforcement
agencies or regulatory agencies may be entitled to access the Information. I understand that,
unless I explicitly authorize otherwise, the Firm, its affiliates and its service providers
(through their respective employees in charge of the relevant electronic and manual processing)
will use this Information only for purposes of administering the Programs. I understand that, in
the United States and in other countries to which such Information may be transferred for the
administration of the Programs, the level of data protection is not equivalent to data protection
standards in the member states of the European Union, Canada or certain Canadian provinces. I
understand that, upon request, to Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 35th
Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, to the extent required under the laws of
the applicable jurisdiction, I may have access to and obtain communication of the Information and
may exercise any of my rights in respect of such Information, including objecting to the processing
of the Information and requesting that the Information be corrected (if wrong), completed or
clarified (if incomplete or equivocal), or erased (if cannot legally be collected or kept). Upon
request, to the extent required under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, Equity Compensation
(division of HCM) will also provide me, free of charge, with a list of all the service providers
used in connection with the Programs at the time of request. I understand that, if I refuse to
authorize the use and transfer of the Information consistent with the above, I may not benefit from
the Programs. I authorize the use and transfer of the Information consistent with the above for the
period of administration of the Programs. In particular, I authorize (within the limits described
above): (i) the data processing by the Firm (which means The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its
subsidiaries and affiliates); (ii) the data processing by BNY Mellon and its affiliates; (iii) the
data processing by the Firm s other service providers; and (iv) the data transfer to the United
States and other countries. I further acknowledge that the Information may be retained by such
persons beyond the period of administration of the Programs to the extent permitted under the laws
of the applicable jurisdiction and I so authorize. 

Other Legal Notices: 

FOR EMPLOYEES IN THE PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF CHINA 

All documentation in relation to the Award(s) is intended for your personal use and in your
capacity as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) and is being given to you solely for the
purpose of providing you with information concerning the Award(s) which the Firm may grant to you
as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) in accordance with the terms of the SIP, this
documentation and the applicable Award Agreement(s). The grant of the Award(s) has not been and
will not be registered with the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of
China pursuant to relevant securities laws and regulations, and the Award(s) may not be offered or
sold within the mainland of the People s Republic of China by means of any of the documentation in
relation to the Award(s) through a public offering or in circumstances which require a registration
or approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of China in
accordance with the relevant securities laws and regulations.

NON-COMPETITION AND NON-SOLICITATION RESTRICTIONS FOR EMPLOYEES PROVIDING SERVICES IN
AUSTRALIA, HONG KONG, INDIA, INDONESIA, JAPAN, KOREA, MALAYSIA, PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF CHINA,
SINGAPORE AND TAIWAN 

In addition to and without limiting any provisions in the SIP or the applicable Award
Agreement(s) (including without limitation the Award forfeiture, termination or repayment
provisions), I hereby agree to and acknowledge the following:

(a) If I am providing services to the Firm in Asia, in view of my importance to the Firm and BGH,
I hereby agree that the Firm or BGH would likely suffer significant harm from me competing with the
Firm or BGH for some period of time after my employment ends. Accordingly, I hereby agree that I
will not, without the written consent of the Firm or BGH, during the Restricted Period in the
Geographic Area:

-2- 

(i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation
interest in, any Covered Competitive Enterprise; or

(ii) associate (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner,
director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Covered Competitive Enterprise and in connection
with such association engage in, or directly or indirectly manage or supervise personnel engaged
in, any activity:

i. which is similar or substantially related to any activity in which I was engaged, in whole
or in part, at the Firm,

ii. for which I had direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility at the Firm,
or

iii. which calls for the application of the same or similar specialized knowledge or skills as
those utilized by me in my activities with the Firm,

at any time during the one-year period immediately prior to the end of the Employment Period, and,
in any such case, irrespective of the purpose of the activity or whether the activity is or was in
furtherance of advisory, agency, proprietary or fiduciary business of either the Firm or BGH or the
Covered Competitive Enterprise.

(By way of example only, this provision precludes an  advisory  investment banker from joining a
leveraged-buyout firm, a research analyst from becoming a proprietary trader or joining a hedge
fund, or an information systems professional from joining a management or other consulting firm and
providing information technology consulting services or advice to any Covered Competitive
Enterprise, in each case without the written consent of the Firm or BGH.)

To the extent that separate financial consideration may be necessary in order to enforce the
restrictive covenant set forth in Section (a) above, the Firm will pay me a monthly payment
equivalent to 25% of my last monthly base salary while this restriction is in effect during any
period when I am not employed by the Firm, payable in accordance with the Firm s payroll practices.
Any such payment shall begin within the first week after termination of employment.

(b) I hereby agree that during the Restricted Period, I will not, in any manner, directly or
indirectly, in Asia (1) Solicit a Covered Client to transact business with a Covered Competitive
Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the Firm or BGH, or (2) interfere
with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship between the Firm or BGH
and a Covered Client.

(c) I hereby agree that during the Restricted Period, I will not, in any manner, directly or
indirectly in Asia:

(i) Solicit any Covered Personnel to resign from the Firm or BGH or to apply for or accept
employment, consultancy, partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive
Enterprise;

(ii) hire or participate in the hiring of any Covered Personnel (whether as an employee,
consultant, or otherwise) by a Covered Competitive Enterprise;

(iii) participate in the decision to offer Covered Personnel employment, consultancy,
admission into partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive Enterprise; or

(iv) participate in the identification of Covered Personnel for potential hiring or admission
into partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive Enterprise.

I acknowledge that I will have violated this provision if, during the Restricted Period, any
Covered Personnel are Solicited, hired, made a consultant or are accepted into partnership,
membership or similar status:

(i) by any Covered Competitive Enterprise which I form, which bears my name, or in which I am
an owner, a partner, a member or have similar status; or

(ii) by any Covered Competitive Enterprise, and I have, or are intended to have, managerial or
supervisory responsibility for such Covered Personnel.

To the extent that separate financial consideration may be necessary in order to enforce the
restrictive covenants set forth in Sections (b) and (c) above, the Firm will pay me a monthly
payment equivalent to 25% of my last monthly base salary while these restrictions are in effect
during any period when I am not employed by the Firm, payable in accordance with the Firm s payroll
practices. Any such payment shall begin within the first week after termination of employment.

(d) I acknowledge and agree that these Restrictions form part of my terms and conditions of
employment. I also acknowledge and agree that these Restrictions supersede any restrictions that I
may be subject to under the non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions for employees
providing services in the People s Republic of China as set out in (a) to (n) of the Signature Card
For 2008 Year-End Awards (China) and the BNY Mellon Custody Account and Consent to Receive
Electronic Delivery.

(e) Prior to accepting employment with any other person or entity during the Restricted Period, I
will provide any prospective employer with written notice of the Restrictions with a copy
containing the prospective employer s name and contact information delivered simultaneously to the
Firm.

(f) I understand that the Restrictions may limit my ability to earn a livelihood in a business
similar to the business of the Firm or BGH. I acknowledge that a violation on my part of any of
the Restrictions would cause immeasurable and irreparable damage to the Firm or BGH. Accordingly,
I agree that the Firm and/or BGH will be entitled to injunctive relief in any court of competent
jurisdiction for any actual or threatened violation of any of the Restrictions in addition to any
other remedies it or they may have.

I also acknowledge that a violation of any of the Restrictions would constitute my failure to meet
an obligation I have under an agreement between me and the Firm that was entered into in connection
with my employment with the Firm, and may constitute  Cause  for purposes of any equity-based
awards granted to me by the Firm and/or BGH and will result in my forfeiting such equity-based
awards.

(g) If any provision (or part of a provision) of the Restrictions is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision
will be deemed modified or severed to the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity,
illegality or unenforceability and the remaining such provisions will not be affected thereby;
provided, however, that if any of the Restrictions are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid, illegal or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum time period such court
determines is acceptable to permit such provision to be enforceable, such Restriction will be
deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such time period in order to make
such provision enforceable hereunder.

(h) The promises contained in the Restrictions are provided by me for the benefit of each Firm
entity and BGH and I acknowledge and agree that each such entity may independently enforce the
Restrictions against me. Any benefit that I give or am deemed to have given by virtue of the
Restrictions is received jointly and severally by the Firm (including, for the avoidance of doubt,
any entity of the Firm to which I provide services from time to time) or BGH.

(i) For the purposes of the Restrictions, Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. enters into the SIP and Award
Agreements applicable to me in connection with the Awards in its own capacity and as agent for each
other Firm entity and BGH. The consideration for the promises in these Restrictions is given to me
by Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. on its own behalf and on behalf of each other Firm entity (including,
for the avoidance of doubt, any entity of the Firm to which I provide services from time to time)
and BGH.

(j) I acknowledge that the Restrictions set out in this clause are reasonable and necessary for
the protection of the legitimate interests of the Firm and BGH, and that, having regard to those
interests, such restrictions do not impose an unreasonable burden on me.

(k) The Restrictions shall remain in full force and effect and survive the termination of my
employment for any reason whatsoever.

(l) If I am a Managing Director subject to a Managing Director Agreement, the Restrictions shall
not apply to me.

(m) If I am a Private Wealth Management employee subject to an Employee Agreement Regarding
Confidential and Proprietary Information and Materials and Non-Solicitation, I will not be subject
to the restrictions contained in clauses (b) and (c) of the Restrictions.

(n) For the purposes of the Restrictions only, the following terms have the following meanings:

Asia    means Australia, the PRC, Hong Kong SAR, Taiwan, Japan, Korea, India, Singapore,
Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines, Brunei and Vietnam.

BGH    means Beijing Gao Hua Securities Company Limited, its subsidiaries and affiliates, and
its respective successors.

Covered Client    means any client or prospective client of the Firm or BGH (i) to whom I
provided services in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period, or (ii) for whom I
transacted business in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period, or (iii) whose
identity became known to me in connection with my relationship with or employment by the Firm or
BGH in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period and with respect to whom I had
access to confidential information.

Covered Competitive Enterprise    means a business enterprise that (i) engages in any activity,
or (ii) owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity that, in
either case, competes anywhere with any activity in which the Firm or BGH is engaged. The
activities covered by the previous sentence include, without limitation, financial services such as
investment banking, public or private finance, lending, financial advisory services, private
investing (for anyone other than me and members of my family), merchant banking, asset or hedge
fund management, insurance or reinsurance underwriting or brokerage, property management, or
securities, futures, commodities, energy, derivatives or currency brokerage, sales, lending,
custody, clearance, settlement or trading.

Covered Personnel    means any Firm or BGH employee, consultant or Managing Director with whom
I had material contact or dealings within the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period
or in relation to whom I had access to confidential information.

-3- 

Employment Period    means the period from the commencement of my employment with, or transfer,
assignment or secondment to the Firm and ending with the date of termination of my employment with,
or transfer, assignment or secondment to the Firm. For the purposes of the definition of
 Employment Period  in these Restrictions, the Employment Period does not terminate when I commence
employment with, or am transferred, assigned or seconded to, another member of the Firm in Asia
(excluding, for this purpose only, Goldman Sachs Gao Hua Securities Company Limited).

Covered Extended Absence    means my absence from active employment for at least 180 days in
any 12-month period as a result of my incapacity due to mental or physical illness, as determined
by the Firm.

Firm    means The Goldman Sachs Group Inc, its subsidiaries and affiliates and its and their
respective successors.

Geographic Area    means (i) the PRC, including Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan; and/or (ii) any
other country in Asia in relation to which I have substantial product and/or geographical market
responsibilities; and/or (iii) any other country in Asia in relation to which I have substantial
employee managerial responsibilities in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period
and/or (iv) any other jurisdiction in Asia in relation to which I provide services in the 12 months
prior to the end of the Employment Period.

Notice Dat   e   means the date on which either I or the Firm gives notice of (i) the conclusion
of my transfer, assignment or secondment to any member of the Firm, or (ii) the termination of my
employment with any member of the Firm, or if the termination is for cause or Covered Extended
Absence, the date on which such termination occurs; or (iii) if I repudiate my employment contract,
any earlier date as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. For the purposes of the
definition of  Notice Date  in these Restrictions, the Notice Date does not commence where I am
transferring to another Firm entity in Asia (excluding, for this purpose only, Goldman Sachs Gao
Hua Securities Company Limited).

PRC    means the People s Republic of China.

Restricted Period    means (i) during the Employment Period; and (ii) for the period of notice
in my employment contract or the period stated in this signature card commencing from the Notice
Date (whichever is longer), irrespective of whether the termination is for cause or Covered
Extended Absence or whether I receive a payment in lieu of all or part of that notice period or
whether I make a payment in lieu of all or part of that notice period pursuant to a statutory
entitlement or with the Firm s agreement..

Restrictions    means the non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions for employees
providing services in the PRC as set out in (a) to (o) of this section of this signature card.

Solicit    means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by
whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner,
to take or refrain from taking any action.

(o) The Restrictions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the
jurisdiction in which my employment relationship is governed.

Signature

Date: 

Print Name:

Employee ID #: 

-4- 

</EX-10.57>

<EX-10.60>
 16
 y81914exv10w60.htm
 EX-10.60: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (UK)

exv10w60 

Exhibit 10.60 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 

          YEAR-END RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the
          Year-End award (this
 Award ) of RSUs ( Year-End RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which
are incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are
not defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References
in this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of Year-End RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in
the Award Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or
cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share
of Common Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such
delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder
of GS Inc. In addition, as set forth in your Award Statement, some or all of any Shares delivered
pursuant to your Year-End RSUs may be subject to transfer restrictions following the Delivery Date
as described in Paragraph 3(b)(iv) below.   This Award is conditioned on your executing the
related signature card and returning it to the address designated on the signature card and/or by
the method designated on the signature card by the date specified, and is subject to all terms,
conditions and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the
arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the
related signature card (which, among other things, opens the custody account referred to in
paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so already), you will have confirmed your acceptance
of all of the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.  

3. 
       
      Vesting and Delivery and Transfer Restrictions . 

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of Year-End
RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to receive delivery
of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Year-End RSUs that are or become Vested, all other terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested Year-End RSUs, and
failure to meet such terms and conditions may result

in the termination of this Award (as a result of which, no Shares underlying such Vested
Year-End RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to the number or percentage of your Year-End RSUs shall be
the date specified next to such number or percentage of Year-End RSUs on your Award Statement. In
accordance with Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-3(d), the Firm may accelerate delivery
to a date that is up to 30 days before the Delivery Date specified on the Award Statement;
provided, however, that in no event shall you be permitted to designate, directly or indirectly,
the taxable year of the delivery.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15
and 16, in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than
thirty (30) Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery
of Shares is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then
Outstanding Year-End RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred
(which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry
credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of
the Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all
or any portion of your Year-End RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or
other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include
such deliveries of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv) and Paragraphs 3(c), 7, and 9(g), until the
date specified on your Award Statement as the  Transferability Date:  (A) on each Delivery Date (or
any other date delivery of Shares is called for hereunder), 50% of gross delivered Shares
underlying the number or percentage of Year-End RSUs specified next to such Delivery Date on your
Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) will be subject to the  Transfer
Restrictions  (as hereinafter defined) (such Shares,  Shares at Risk ) and shall not be permitted
to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated, fractionalized, hedged or
otherwise disposed of (including through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether
voluntarily or involuntarily by you (collectively referred to as the  Transfer Restrictions ) and
any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge
or other disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void; and (B) if and to the
extent your Shares at Risk are certificated, the Certificates representing the Shares at Risk are
subject to the restrictions in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv), and GS Inc. shall advise its transfer agent
to place a stop order against your Shares at Risk. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the
applicable withholding rate at delivery of Shares underlying your Year-End RSUs equals or exceeds
50%, all of the Shares delivered to you after the application of the withholding will be Shares at
Risk. Within 30 Business Days after the Transferability Date (or any other date described herein
on which the Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be taken,
such steps as may be necessary to remove the Transfer Restrictions. The Committee may adopt
procedures pursuant to which some

- 2 - 

or all recipients of Year-End RSUs may transfer some or all of their Shares at Risk (which
shall continue to be subject to the Transfer Restrictions until the Transferability Date) through a
gift for no consideration to any immediate family member (as determined pursuant to the procedures)
or a trust in which the recipient and/or the recipient s immediate family members in the aggregate
have 100% of the beneficial interest (as determined pursuant to the procedures).

(v) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares (including Shares at Risk) may be
made initially into an escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the
Firm and may be held in that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such
documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee has determined that any other
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been
satisfied. By accepting your Year-End RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate
or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such
terms and conditions (which may include, without limitation, your executing any documents related
to, and your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow account) as the Firm may deem
necessary or appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the
Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares
while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and
shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date and/or the Transferability Date, the Shares
underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your
estate and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply as soon as practicable after the date of
death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the
Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to
specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Year-End RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares; Termination of
Shares at Risk .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall terminate, such
Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 7, and 9(g),
if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively employed with
the Firm, any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Transferability Date as
provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs (whether or not Vested) immediately
shall terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered
in respect thereof if:

- 3 - 

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding Year-End RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (A) any Firm employee or
consultant (1) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (2) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (B) any Managing Director of the Firm.

- 4 - 

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Shares at Risk immediately shall terminate and such Shares at Risk
shall be cancelled if:

(i) any event constituting Cause has occurred;

(ii) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(iii) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement; or

(iv) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Shares at Risk.

(d) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any
amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an
agreement referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(v) and 4(c)(ii), regardless of whether such obligation
arises under a written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting
Cause referred to in Paragraphs 4(b)(ii)) and 4(c)(i).

(e) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision in
Paragraph 4(b) or Paragraph 4(c), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee
determines that, during the Firm s
          fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or
marketing of any product or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in
the purchase or sale of any security or other property, in any case without appropriate
consideration of the risk to the Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example,
where you have improperly analyzed such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise
concerns about such risk) and, as a result of such action or omission, the Committee determines
there has been, or reasonably could be expected to be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your
business unit or the broader financial system, your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs awarded
as part of this Award (whether or not Vested) immediately shall terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall
cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof (and any Shares,
Dividend Equivalents, dividends on Shares at Risk or other amounts paid or delivered to you in
respect of this Award shall be subject to repayment in accordance with Paragraph 5) and any Shares
at Risk shall be cancelled.

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires
Award recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that
all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied)
shall apply to this Award.

- 5 - 

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement, Downsizing and Approved Termination for Program
Analysts. 

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined below), the condition set
forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but
that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of
which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply (including any applicable Transfer Restrictions).
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or otherwise,  Retirement  means termination
of your Employment (other than for Cause) on or after December 31,
          at a time when (i) (A) the
sum of your age plus years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion) equals or exceeds 60 and (B) you have completed at least ten (10) years of service with
the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) or, if earlier, (ii) (A) you have
attained age 50 and (B) you have completed at least 5 (five) years of service with the Firm (as
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion). Any termination of Employment by reason of
Extended Absence or Retirement shall not affect any applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any
Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Transferability Date as provided in
Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(b), 4(c) and 4(e), your rights in respect
of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) immediately
shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such
Year-End RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit
participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity
(including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant,
agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise
determined by the Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b) will not apply to your
Outstanding Year-End RSUs if your termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or
Retirement is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for
Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any
associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of
Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination 
or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of
Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End RSUs shall
become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply (including
any applicable Transfer Restrictions). Whether or not your Employment is terminated solely by
reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of
Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination 
or the like or a termination for good reason, will be solely by reason of a

- 6 - 

downsizing.  Your termination of Employment by reason of  downsizing  shall not affect any
applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the
Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you are classified by the
Firm as a  program analyst,  and your Employment is terminated without Cause solely by reason of an
 approved termination  with respect to your participation in the program prior to any Vesting Date
specified on your Award Statement, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with
respect to any Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but had not yet become Vested immediately prior
to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested),
but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply (including any applicable
Transfer Restrictions). Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, for purposes of this
Paragraph 6(d), an  approved termination  shall mean a termination of Employment from the analyst
program where you: (i) successfully complete the analyst program (as determined by the Firm in its
sole discretion), which shall include, but not be limited to, remaining Employed by the Firm
through the analyst program completion date specified by the Firm and (ii) terminate Employment
with the Firm immediately after you complete the analyst program, without any  stay-on  or other
agreement or understanding to continue Employment with the Firm. If you agree to stay with the
Firm as an employee after your analyst program ends and then later terminate Employment, you will
not have an  approved termination.  An  approved termination  shall not affect any applicable
Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the
Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Award Agreement (except Paragraph 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18
months thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your
Employment for Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs, whether or
not Vested, shall be delivered and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights; Dividends . Each Year-End RSU shall include a Dividend
Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs, at or after
the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the
record date for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an
amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made
in respect of the Share underlying such Outstanding Year-End RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend
Equivalent Right shall be made only with respect to Year-End RSUs that are Outstanding on the
relevant record date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section
2.8.2 of the Plan. You shall be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash dividend
paid by GS, Inc. in respect of your Shares at Risk, or, if the Shares at Risk are held in escrow,
the Firm will direct the transfer/paying agent to distribute the dividends to you in respect of
your Shares at Risk.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll

- 7 - 

deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares
delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you are an individual with separate
employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s                  fiscal year), the Firm may,
in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an amount the Firm determines is
advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or potential tax consequences
related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award (or any other
Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you may have under the
preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery
of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with your Year-End RSU Award, including without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(e), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any

- 8 - 

supranational or international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency,
or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the
Committee, and as a result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End
RSUs and/or Shares at Risk would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted
Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any Year-End RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a
result of which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the case of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and
9(g)(ii) above, any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply, and, at the sole discretion of the
Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares
underlying, your then Outstanding Vested Year-End RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after
the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment while you
continue to hold outstanding Vested Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk, you may be required to
certify, from time to time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement. You understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of
any changes to your address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are
responsible for obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive
certification materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by
the deadline specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your
outstanding Year-End RSUs and Shares at Risk, as applicable, in accordance with Paragraphs 4(b)(iv)
and 4(c)(iii).

10.  Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares or to remove the Transfer Restrictions under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4
of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding
amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax
equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms
and conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing.

- 9 - 

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End RSUs may transfer some or all
of their Year-End RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any immediate family member (as
determined pursuant to the procedures) or a trust in which the recipient and/or the recipient s
immediate family members in the aggregate have 100% of the beneficial interest (as determined
pursuant to the procedures).

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your Year-End RSUs required by this
Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b) and (c)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9 and
the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall occur
by March 15 of the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit such
conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects,

- 10 - 

pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section
409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to such later
date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7)
(in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your Year-End RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with
respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted
under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of
Employment occurs; provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the
Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier
of the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under
Section 409A) the date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter
date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes
of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination
of Employment from the Firm (as defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be paid
to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after
the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding Year-End RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee
receives satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such
delivery or payment shall be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as
reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you
under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

- 11 - 

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

16.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 457A . To the extent the
Committee or the Plan s committee that has been delegated certain authority by the Committee (the
 SIP Committee ) determines that (i) Section 457A of the Code or any guidance promulgated
thereunder ( Section 457A ) requires that, in order to qualify for the short-term deferral
exception from treatment as  deferred compensation  under Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code, the
documents governing an Award must specify that such Award will be delivered within the period set
forth in Section 457(A)(d)(3)(B) of the Code and (ii) all or any portion of this Award is or
becomes subject to Section 457A, this Award Agreement will be deemed to be amended as of the Date
of Grant (as the Committee or the SIP Committee determines necessary or appropriate after
consultation with counsel) to provide that delivery of Year-End RSUs will occur no later than 12
months after the end of the taxable year in which the right to delivery is first no longer subject
to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined under Section 457A); provided, however, that no
action or modification will be permitted to the extent that such action or modification would cause
such Award to fail to satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of
Section 409A or otherwise would result in an additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect
of such Award.

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

- 12 - 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

Name:

Title:

- 13 - 

</EX-10.60>

<EX-10.61>
 17
 y81914exv10w61.htm
 EX-10.61: FORM OF YEAR-END SUPPLEMENTAL RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (UK)

exv10w61 

Exhibit 10.61 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
             YEAR-END SUPPLEMENTAL RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the              Year-End award (this
 Award ) of  Supplemental  RSUs ( Year-End Supplemental RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman
Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which
are incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are
not defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References
in this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of Year-End Supplemental RSUs subject to this Award is
set forth in the Award Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to
deliver (or cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement, a share of Common Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided
herein. Until such delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no
rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.   This Award is conditioned on your executing the related
signature card and returning it to the address designated on the signature card and/or by the
method designated on the signature card by the date specified, and is subject to all terms,
conditions and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the
arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the
related signature card (which, among other things, opens the custody account referred to in
paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so already), you will have confirmed your acceptance
of all of the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of Year-End
Supplemental RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded
to avoid fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to receive
delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs that are or become
Vested, all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such
Vested Year-End Supplemental RSUs, and failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the
termination of this Award (as a result of which, no Shares underlying such Vested Year-End
Supplemental RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to the number or percentage of your Year-End Supplemental
RSUs shall be the date specified next to such number or percentage of Year-End Supplemental RSUs on
your Award Statement. In accordance with Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-3(d), the
Firm may accelerate delivery to a date that is up to 30 days before the Delivery Date specified

on the Award Statement; provided, however, that in no event shall you be permitted to
designate, directly or indirectly, the taxable year of the delivery.

(ii)
Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15 and 16, in
accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty (30)
Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares
is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then Outstanding
Year-End Supplemental RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred
(which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry
credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii)
In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the Committee, in lieu
of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or any portion of your
Year-End Supplemental RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or other
property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include such
deliveries of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares may be made initially into an escrow
account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the Firm and may be held in that
escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such documentation as it may have
requested or until the Committee has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on
delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your
Year-End Supplemental RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other
permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such terms and
conditions (which may include, without limitation, your executing any documents related to, and
your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow account) as the Firm may deem necessary or
appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide
that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares while held in
escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as
determined by the Firm in its discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying your then Outstanding
Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your estate as soon as
practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the
Committee is provided to the Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you
may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental
RSUs under your will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or
such other similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

- 2 - 

4.  Termination of Year-End Supplemental RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs that were
Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested prior to your termination of Employment immediately
shall terminate, such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs (whether or not
Vested) immediately shall terminate, such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding
and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

- 3 - 

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (A) any Firm
employee or consultant (1) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (2) who
at any time during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm,
worked in the same division in which you worked; and (B) any Managing Director of the Firm.

(c) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any
amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an
agreement referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(v), regardless of whether such obligation arises under a
written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to
in Paragraph 4(b)(ii).

(d) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision in
Paragraph 4(b), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee determines that, during the
Firm s              fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or marketing of any product or
service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the purchase or sale of any
security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the risk to the Firm
or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly analyzed such
risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result of
such action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be expected
to be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial system,
your rights in respect of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs awarded as part of this Award (whether or
not Vested) immediately shall terminate, such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof (and any Shares, Dividend
Equivalents, or other amounts paid or delivered to you in respect of this Award shall be subject to
repayment in accordance with Paragraph 5).

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires
Award recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that
all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied)
shall apply to this Award.

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement, Downsizing and Approved Termination for Program
Analysts. 

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined below), the condition set
forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any Year-End Supplemental RSUs that were
Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment
(as a result of which such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall become Vested), but all other terms and
conditions of this Award

- 4 - 

Agreement shall continue to apply. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or
otherwise,  Retirement  means termination of your Employment (other than for Cause) on or after
December 31,     at a time when (i) (A) the sum of your age plus years of service with the Firm
(as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 60 and (B) you have
completed at least ten (10) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its
sole discretion) or, if earlier, (ii) (A) you have attained age 50 and (B) you have completed at
least 5 (five) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b), and 4(d), your rights in respect of
your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a)
immediately shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting
Date with respect to such Year-End Supplemental RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater
equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii)
associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee,
partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b)
will not apply to your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs if your termination of Employment by
reason of Extended Absence or Retirement is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by
 mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of
claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm
or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed
to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an
 involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your Year-End Supplemental RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become
Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End
Supplemental RSUs shall become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall
continue to apply. Whether or not your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing 
shall be determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by
you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a
termination for good reason, will be solely by reason of a  downsizing. 

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you are classified by the
Firm as a  program analyst,  and your Employment is terminated without Cause solely by reason of an
 approved termination  with respect to your participation in the program prior to any Vesting Date
specified on your Award Statement, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with
respect to any Year-End Supplemental RSUs that were Outstanding but had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End
Supplemental RSUs shall become Vested, but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall
continue to apply. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, for purposes of this Paragraph
6(d), an  approved termination  shall mean a termination of Employment from the analyst program
where you: (i) successfully complete the analyst program (as determined by the Firm in its sole
discretion), which shall include, but not be limited to, remaining Employed by the Firm

- 5 - 

through the analyst program completion date specified by the Firm and (ii) terminate
Employment with the Firm immediately after you complete the analyst program, without any  stay-on 
or other agreement or understanding to continue Employment with the Firm. If you agree to stay
with the Firm as an employee after your analyst program ends and then later terminate Employment,
you will not have an  approved termination. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this
Award Agreement (except Paragraph 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18
months thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your
Employment for Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs,
whether or not Vested, shall be delivered.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each Year-End Supplemental RSU shall include a
Dividend Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End
Supplemental RSUs, at or after the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS
Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you
shall be entitled to receive an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend
payment as would have been made in respect of the Share underlying such Outstanding Year-End
Supplemental RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent Right shall be made only with
respect to Year-End Supplemental RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record date. Each
Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
    fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End
Supplemental RSUs are conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs are conditioned on the receipt
to the full satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of
the Plan) that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

- 6 - 

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
Supplemental RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time
with respect to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating
to the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method,
consolidation or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you
understand and agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or
expenses associated with your Year-End Supplemental RSU Award, including without limitation, such
brokerage costs or other fees or expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you
hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b) and 4(d), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs
would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any Year-End Supplemental RSUs you then hold that had not yet become
Vested (as a result of which such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the case
of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and 9(g)(ii) above, at the sole discretion of the Firm you shall receive
either a lump sum cash payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your then
Outstanding Vested Year-End Supplemental RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the
Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

- 7 - 

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment while you
continue to hold outstanding Vested Year-End Supplemental RSUs, you may be required to certify,
from time to time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award
Agreement. You understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of any
changes to your address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are
responsible for obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive
certification materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by
the deadline specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your
outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs in accordance with Paragraph 4(b)(iv).

10.  Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms
and conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End Supplemental RSUs may
transfer some or all of their Year-End Supplemental RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any
immediate family member (as determined pursuant to the procedures) or a trust in which the
recipient and/or the recipient s immediate family members in the aggregate have 100% of the
beneficial interest (as determined pursuant to the procedures).

- 8 - 

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs
required by this Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and
(c), 6(b) and (c) (execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax
liability) and 9 and the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are
satisfied, and shall occur by March 15 of the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs
unless, in order to permit such conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects,
pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section
409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to such later
date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7)
(in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall not have the effect
of deferring delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the
date on which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would
lapse, with respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee
elects a later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be
permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the
subsequent election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

- 9 - 

(e) The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of
Employment occurs; provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the
Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier
of the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under
Section 409A) the date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter
date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes
of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination
of Employment from the Firm (as defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs
shall be paid to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any
corresponding regular cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for
which occurs on or after the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable
withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the
Shares underlying such Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee
receives satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such
delivery or payment shall be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as
reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you
under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

16.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 457A . To the extent the
Committee or the Plan s committee that has been delegated certain authority by the Committee (the
 SIP Committee ) determines that (i) Section 457A of the Code or any guidance promulgated
thereunder ( Section 457A ) requires that, in order to qualify for the short-term deferral
exception from treatment as  deferred compensation  under Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code, the
documents governing an Award must specify that such Award will be delivered within the period set
forth in Section 457(A)(d)(3)(B) of the Code and (ii) all or any portion of this Award is or
becomes subject to Section 457A, this Award Agreement will be deemed to be amended as of the Date
of Grant (as the Committee or the SIP Committee determines necessary or appropriate after
consultation with counsel) to provide that delivery of Year-End Supplemental RSUs will occur no
later than 12 months after the end of the taxable year in which the right to delivery is first no
longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined under Section 457A); provided,
however, that no action or modification will be permitted to the extent that such action or
modification would cause such Award to fail to satisfy the

- 10 - 

conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of Section 409A or otherwise would
result in an additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect of such Award.

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

Name:

Title:

- 11 - 

</EX-10.61>

<EX-10.62>
 18
 y81914exv10w62.htm
 EX-10.62: FORM OF YEAR-END SUPPLEMENTAL RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (UK AND FRANCE)

exv10w62 

Exhibit 10.62 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
                  YEAR-END SUPPLEMENTAL RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the                   Year-End award (this
 Award ) of  Supplemental  RSUs ( Year-End Supplemental RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman
Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award .

(a) The number of Year-End Supplemental RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be
delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common
Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.
  This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it to the
address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by
the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set
forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

(b) If you a party to the Goldman Sachs Shareholders  Agreement, as amended from time to time
(the  Shareholders  Agreement ), the Shares delivered with respect to your Year-End Supplemental
RSUs will be subject to the Shareholders  Agreement, except those Shares will not be considered
 Covered Shares  for purposes of Section 2.1(a) of the Shareholders  Agreement.

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of Year-End
Supplemental RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded
to avoid fractional Shares). While continued active Employment is not required in order to receive
delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs that are or become
Vested, all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such
Vested Year-End Supplemental RSUs, and failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the
termination of this Award (as a result of which, no Shares underlying such Vested Year-End
Supplemental RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to the number or percentage of your Year-End Supplemental
RSUs shall be the date specified next to such number or percentage of Year-End Supplemental RSUs on
your Award Statement. In accordance with Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-3(d), the
Firm may accelerate delivery to a date that is up to 30 days before the Delivery Date specified on
the Award Statement; provided, however, that in no event shall you be permitted to designate,
directly or indirectly, the taxable year of the delivery.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15 and 16,
in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than thirty
(30) Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of
Shares is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then
Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has
occurred (which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by
book entry credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the
Firm. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its
 covered employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to
Section 3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the Committee, in
lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or any portion of
your Year-End Supplemental RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other Awards or other
property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares shall include such
deliveries of cash, other securities, other Awards or other property.

(iv) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares may be made initially into an
escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the Firm and may be held in
that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such documentation as it may have
requested or until the Committee has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on
delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your
Year-End Supplemental RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other
permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such terms and
conditions (which may include, without limitation, your executing any documents related to, and
your paying for any costs associated with, such escrow account) as the

- 2 - 

Firm may deem necessary or appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise
determined by the Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to
vote such Shares while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be
accumulated and shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying your then Outstanding
Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your estate as soon as
practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the
Committee is provided to the Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you
may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental
RSUs under your will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or
such other similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Year-End Supplemental RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs that were
Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested prior to your termination of Employment immediately
shall terminate, such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof.

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(c) and 4(e), and subject to Paragraphs
6(b) and 6(c), your rights in respect of the Year-End Supplemental RSUs that are Vested on the Date
of Grant shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the earlier of
December 31,                  or the date on which your Year-End Supplemental RSUs become deliverable following
a Change in Control in accordance with Paragraph 7 hereof, you engage in  Competition.  For
purposes of this Award Agreement,  Competition  means that you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater
equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii)
associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee,
partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 6 and 7,
your rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs (whether or not
Vested) immediately shall terminate, such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding
and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm,

- 3 - 

(2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship between
the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign from the
Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf of
yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice period requirement
applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (A) any Firm employee or
consultant (1) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (2) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (B) any Managing Director of the Firm.

(d) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any
amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an
agreement referred to in Paragraph 4(c)(v), regardless of whether such obligation arises under a
written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to
in Paragraph 4(c)(ii).

(e) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision in
Paragraph 4(c), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee determines that, during the
Firm s 2009 fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or marketing of any product or
service, or participated

- 4 - 

on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the purchase or sale of any security or other
property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the risk to the Firm or the broader
financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly analyzed such risk or where you
have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result of such action or
omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be expected to be, a
material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial system, your
rights in respect of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs awarded as part of this Award (whether or not
Vested) immediately shall terminate, such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding
and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof (and any Shares, Dividend Equivalents, or other
amounts paid or delivered to you in respect of this Award shall be subject to repayment in
accordance with Paragraph 5).

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which requires Award
recipients to repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all
terms and conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall
apply to this Award.

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement, Downsizing and Approved Termination for Program Analysts.

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined below), the condition set
forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any Year-End Supplemental RSUs that were
Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment
(as a result of which such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall become Vested), but all other terms and
conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Notwithstanding anything to the
contrary in the Plan or otherwise,  Retirement  means termination of your Employment (other than
for Cause) on or after the Date of Grant at a time when (i) (A) the sum of your age plus years of
service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 60
and (B) you have completed at least ten (10) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the
Committee in its sole discretion) or, if earlier, (ii) (A) you have attained age 50 and (B) you
have completed at least 5 (five) years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in
its sole discretion).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(c) and 4(e), your rights in respect of
your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a)
immediately shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting
Date with respect to such Year-End Supplemental RSUs, you engage in Competition. Notwithstanding
the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its discretion, neither this
Paragraph 6(b) nor Paragraph 4(b) will apply to your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs if your
termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement is characterized by the Firm
as  involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general
waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be
prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including
any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good

- 5 - 

reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of
Employment by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your Year-End Supplemental RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become
Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End
Supplemental RSUs shall become Vested) and Paragraph 4(b) shall not apply to your Outstanding
Year-End Supplemental RSUs that are Vested on the Date of Grant, but all other conditions of this
Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Whether or not your Employment is terminated solely by
reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of
Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination 
or the like or a termination for good reason, will be solely by reason of a  downsizing. 

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you are classified by the
Firm as a  program analyst,  and your Employment is terminated without Cause solely by reason of an
 approved termination  with respect to your participation in the program prior to any Vesting Date
specified on your Award Statement, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with
respect to any Year-End Supplemental RSUs that were Outstanding but had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End
Supplemental RSUs shall become Vested) and Paragraph 4(b) shall not apply to your Outstanding
Year-End Supplemental RSUs that are Vested on the Date of Grant, but all other conditions of this
Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, for purposes
of this Paragraph 6(d), an  approved termination  shall mean a termination of Employment from the
analyst program where you: (i) successfully complete the analyst program (as determined by the Firm
in its sole discretion), which shall include, but not be limited to, remaining Employed by the Firm
through the analyst program completion date specified by the Firm and (ii) terminate Employment
with the Firm immediately after you complete the analyst program, without any  stay-on  or other
agreement or understanding to continue Employment with the Firm. If you agree to stay with the
Firm as an employee after your analyst program ends and then later terminate Employment, you will
not have an  approved termination. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraph 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months
thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for
Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs, whether or not
Vested, shall be delivered.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each Year-End Supplemental RSU shall include a
Dividend Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End
Supplemental RSUs, at or after the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS
Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you
shall be entitled to receive an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend
payment as would have been made in respect of the Share underlying such Outstanding Year-End
Supplemental RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent

- 6 - 

Right shall be made only with respect to Year-End Supplemental RSUs that are Outstanding on the
relevant record date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section
2.8.2 of the Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
                 fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End
Supplemental RSUs are conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs are conditioned on the receipt
to the full satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of
the Plan) that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
Supplemental RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time
with respect to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating
to the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method,
consolidation or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you
understand and agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or
expenses

- 7 - 

associated with your Year-End Supplemental RSU Award, including without limitation, such brokerage
costs or other fees or expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(c) and 4(e), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization or any agency, or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs
would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) above only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to any Year-End Supplemental RSUs you then hold that had not yet become
Vested (as a result of which such Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the case
of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and 9(g)(ii) above, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive
either a lump sum cash payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your then
Outstanding Vested Year-End Supplemental RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the
Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment while you
continue to hold outstanding Vested Year-End Supplemental RSUs, you may be required to certify,
from time to time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award
Agreement. You understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of any
changes to your address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are
responsible for obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive
certification materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by
the deadline specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your
outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs in accordance with Paragraph 4(c)(iv).

10.  Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset

- 8 - 

against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee
deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms
and conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in Section
3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of
the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may
adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End Supplemental RSUs may
transfer some or all of their Year-End Supplemental RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any
immediate family member (as determined pursuant to the procedures) or a trust in which the
recipient and/or the recipient s immediate family members in the aggregate have 100% of the
beneficial interest (as determined pursuant to the procedures).

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan With Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full

- 9 - 

authority to give effect to this intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this
intent, in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan
(including, without limitation, Sections 1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the
provisions of this Award Agreement shall govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential
inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this
Paragraph 15 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs
required by this Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and
(c), 6(b) and (c) (execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax
liability) and 9 and the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are
satisfied, and shall occur by March 15 of the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs
unless, in order to permit such conditions or restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects,
pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with Section
409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to such later
date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7)
(in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your Year-End Supplemental RSUs shall not have the effect
of deferring delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the
date on which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would
lapse, with respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee
elects a later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be
permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the
subsequent election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of
Employment occurs; provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the
Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier
of the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under
Section 409A) the date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter
date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes
of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination
of Employment from the Firm (as defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs
shall be paid to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any
corresponding

- 10 - 

regular cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs
on or after the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding)
equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying
such Outstanding Year-End Supplemental RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee
receives satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such
delivery or payment shall be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as
reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you
under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

16.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 457A . To the extent the
Committee or the Plan s committee that has been delegated certain authority by the Committee (the
 SIP Committee ) determines that (i) Section 457A of the Code or any guidance promulgated
thereunder ( Section 457A ) requires that, in order to qualify for the short-term deferral
exception from treatment as  deferred compensation  under Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code, the
documents governing an Award must specify that such Award will be delivered within the period set
forth in Section 457(A)(d)(3)(B) of the Code and (ii) all or any portion of this Award is or
becomes subject to Section 457A, this Award Agreement will be deemed to be amended as of the Date
of Grant (as the Committee or the SIP Committee determines necessary or appropriate after
consultation with counsel) to provide that delivery of Year-End Supplemental RSUs will occur no
later than 12 months after the end of the taxable year in which the right to delivery is first no
longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined under Section 457A); provided,
however, that no action or modification will be permitted to the extent that such action or
modification would cause such Award to fail to satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception
from the requirements of Section 409A or otherwise would result in an additional tax imposed under
Section 409A in respect of such Award.

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

- 11 - 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:

Name:

Title:

- 12 - 

</EX-10.62>

<EX-12.1>
 19
 y81914exv12w1.htm
 EX-12.1: STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS

exv12w1 

EXHIBIT 12.1  

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

COMPUTATION OF
    RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND RATIOS OF EARNINGS 

TO COMBINED FIXED
    CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS  

(1)  

Fixed charges include capitalized interest of $70 million,
    $87 million, $70 million, $67 million,
    $8 million and $6 million for years ended
    December 2009, November 2008, November 2007,
    November 2006 and November 2005 and one month ended
    December 2008, respectively.

(2)  

Earnings for the one month ended December 2008 were
    inadequate to cover total fixed charges and total combined fixed
    charges and preferred stock dividends. The coverage deficiencies
    for total fixed charges and total combined fixed charges and
    preferred stock dividends were $1.26 billion and
    $1.66 billion, respectively.

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 20
 y81914exv21w1.htm
 EX-21.1: LIST OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES

exv21w1 

EXHIBIT 21.1  

Significant
    Subsidiaries of the Registrant  

The following are significant subsidiaries of The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc. as of December 31, 2009 and the states or
    jurisdictions in which they are organized. Indentation indicates
    the principal parent of each subsidiary. The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc. owns, directly or indirectly, at least 99% of the
    voting securities of each subsidiary. The names of particular
    subsidiaries have been omitted because, considered in the
    aggregate as a single subsidiary, they would not constitute, as
    of the end of the year covered by this report, a
     significant subsidiary  as that term is defined in
     Rule 1-02(w) 
    of
     Regulation S-X 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

State or 

Jurisdiction 

Name 

of Entity 

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 

Delaware

Goldman, Sachs   Co. 

New York

Goldman Sachs (UK) L.L.C. 

Delaware

Goldman Sachs Group Holdings (U.K.)

United Kingdom

GS Euro Investments

Cayman Islands

GS Euro Management

Cayman Islands

Scadbury UK Limited

United Kingdom

Scadbury Funding Limited

Cayman Islands

Scadbury II Assets Limited

Cayman Islands

Killingholme Generation Limited

United Kingdom

GS Killingholme Cayman Investments Ltd. 

Cayman Islands

GS Killingholme Cayman Investments II Ltd

Cayman Islands

GS Killingholme Cayman Investments III

Cayman Islands

KPL Finance Limited

Cayman Islands

Goldman Sachs Holdings (U.K.)

United Kingdom

Goldman Sachs International

United Kingdom

Goldman Sachs Asset Management International

United Kingdom

Forres LLC

Delaware

Forres Investments Limited

Cayman Islands

Shire UK Limited

United Kingdom

GS Funding Management Limited

Cayman Islands

GS Funding Investments Limited

Cayman Islands

GS Financial Services L.P. (Del)

Delaware

Goldman Sachs Global Holdings L.L.C. 

Delaware

GS Asian Venture (Delaware) L.L.C. 

Delaware

Tiger Strategic Investments Ltd

Mauritius

MLT Investments Ltd. 

Mauritius

Goldman Sachs Strategic Investments (Asia) L.L.C. 

Delaware

Goldman Sachs (Japan) Ltd. 

British Virgin Islands

Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. 

Japan

J. Aron Holdings, L.P. 

Delaware

J. Aron   Company

New York

Goldman Sachs Asset Management, L.P. 

Delaware

Goldman Sachs Hedge Fund Strategies LLC

Delaware

Goldman Sachs (Cayman) Holding Company

Cayman Islands

Goldman Sachs (Asia) Corporate Holdings L.P. 

Delaware

Goldman Sachs Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong

Goldman Sachs (Hong Kong) Company Limited

Hong Kong

KPL Funding Limited

Cayman Islands

State or 

Jurisdiction 

Name 

of Entity 

Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C. 

Delaware

Goldman Sachs Foreign Exchange (Singapore) Pte.

Singapore

J Aron   Company (Singapore) Pte.

Singapore

Goldman Sachs (Asia) Finance

Mauritius

Goldman Sachs Financial Markets, L.P. 

Delaware

MTGLQ Investors, L.P. 

Delaware

Goldman Sachs Lending Partners LLC

Delaware

Liquidity Assets Limited

Cayman Islands

GS Mehetia LLC

Delaware

Mehetia Holdings Inc. 

Delaware

Mehetia Inc. 

Delaware

Goldman Sachs Bank USA

New York

Goldman Sachs Mortgage Company

New York

GSCP (DEL) INC.

Delaware

Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P. 

Bermuda

Litton Mortgage Servicing, LLC

Utah

Litton Loan Servicing LP

Delaware

GSTM LLC

Delaware

SLK LLC

New York

Goldman Sachs Execution   Clearing, L.P. 

New York

GS Financial Services II, LLC

Delaware

GS Funding Europe

United Kingdom

GS Funding Europe I Ltd. 

Cayman Islands

Amagansett Funding Limited

Cayman Islands

GS Funding Europe II Ltd. 

Cayman Islands

GS Investment Strategies, LLC

Delaware

GSEM (DEL) INC.

Delaware

GSEM (DEL) Holdings, L.P. 

Delaware

GSEM BERMUDA HOLDINGS, L.P. 

Bermuda

GSEM (DEL) LLC

Delaware

GS Equity Markets, L.P. 

Bermuda

Goldman, Sachs   Co. Wertpapier GmbH

Germany

HULL TRADING ASIA LIMITED

Hong Kong

Goldman Sachs LLC

Mauritius

GSIP HOLDCO A LLC

Delaware

Special Situations Investing Group, Inc. 

Delaware

Rothesay Life, L.L.C. 

Delaware

Rothesay Life (Cayman) Limited

Cayman Islands

Rothesay Life Limited

United Kingdom

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 21
 y81914exv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23w1 

EXHIBIT 23.1 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3
(File Nos. 333-154173 and 333-159143) of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. of our report dated
February 26, 2010 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting, which appears in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. We also consent to
the incorporation by reference in such Registration Statements of our report dated February 26,
2010 relating to Selected Financial Data, which appears in Exhibit 99.1 of this Form 10-K.

/s/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

New York, New York 
February 26, 2010

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 22
 y81914exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1: RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Lloyd C. Blankfein, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009
of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees
who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ Lloyd C. Blankfein

Name:   
     Lloyd C. Blankfein  

Title:   
     Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 26, 2010

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, David A. Viniar, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009
of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material
fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information
included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results
of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing
and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most
recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and
the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ David A. Viniar

Name:   
     David A. Viniar  

Title:   
     Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 26, 2010

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 23
 y81914exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1: SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

Certification 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, the undersigned officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the
 Company ) hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2009 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as
applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

Dated: February 26, 2010  
     /s/ Lloyd C. Blankfein

Lloyd C. Blankfein  

Chief Executive Officer  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350 and is
not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

Certification 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, the undersigned officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the
 Company ) hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2009 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as
applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

Dated: February 26, 2010  
     /s/ David A. Viniar

David A. Viniar  

Chief Financial Officer  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350 and is
not being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-99.1>
 24
 y81914exv99w1.htm
 EX-99.1: REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv99w1 

EXHIBIT 99.1 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
ON SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

To the Board of Directors and the Shareholders of 
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.:

We have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements of The Goldman Sachs Group,
Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) at December 31, 2009 and November 28, 2008, and for the
fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, November 28, 2008 and November 30, 2007 and for the one-month
period ended December 26, 2008 and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over
financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, and in our report dated February 26, 2010, we
expressed unqualified opinions thereon. We have also previously audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s
consolidated statements of financial condition at November 30, 2007, November 24, 2006 and November
25, 2005, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, changes in shareholders  equity,
cash flows and comprehensive income for the years ended November 24, 2006 and November 25, 2005
(none of which are presented herein), and we expressed unqualified opinions on those consolidated
financial statements. In our opinion, the information set forth in the selected financial data for
the fiscal years ended December 31, 2009, November 28, 2008, November 30, 2007, November 24, 2006
and November 25, 2005 and the income statement data and common share data for the one-month period
ended December 26, 2008 appearing on page 216 in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, is fairly
stated, in all material respects, in relation to the consolidated financial statements from which
it has been derived.

/s/ P ricewaterhouse C oopers  LLP

New York, New York 
February 26, 2010

</EX-99.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 25
 gs-20091231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 26
 gs-20091231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 27
 gs-20091231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 28
 gs-20091231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 29
 gs-20091231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 30
 gs-20091231_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

