<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110301_10-K_edgar_data_886982_0000950123-11-020067_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>47514321</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>1180679</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>9331401</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2825892</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>10102142</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>23000831</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>175</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>25</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-11-020067.hdr.sgml : 20110301
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110228213423
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-11-020067
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		31
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110301
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000886982
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				134019460
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14965
		FILM NUMBER:		11648721

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200 WEST STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10282
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2129021000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		200 WEST STREET
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10282

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC/
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20010104

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Hc2iioj4yVmXx1gvYuolA74EOqogE/aJqxg15aRV5JdKV8/ERB91EllQjx8CpUFv
 m8Bg7gmH33DfH1yPbR8/fQ==

 0000950123-11-020067.txt : 20110301

10-K
 1
 y88213e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION  

Washington, D.C.
    20549  

Form 10-K   

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
    SECTION 13 OR 15(d)  

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934  

The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc.  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

(212) 902-1000  

(Registrant s telephone
    number, including area code)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of each
    class:   

Name of each exchange on
    which registered: 

Common stock, par value $.01 per share 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a
    Share of Floating Rate
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series A 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a
    Share of 6.20%
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series B 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a
    Share of Floating Rate
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series C 

New York Stock Exchange 

Depositary Shares, Each Representing 1/1,000th Interest in a
    Share of Floating Rate
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series D 

New York Stock Exchange 

5.793%
     Fixed-to-Floating 
    Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities of
    Goldman Sachs Capital II (and Registrant s guarantee
    with respect thereto) 

New York Stock Exchange 

Floating Rate Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital
    Securities of Goldman Sachs Capital III (and
    Registrant s guarantee with respect thereto) 

New York Stock Exchange 

Medium-Term 
    Notes, Series B, Index-Linked Notes due February 2013;
    Index-Linked Notes due April 2013; Index-Linked Notes due
    May 2013; and Index-Linked Notes due 2011 

NYSE Amex 

Medium-Term 
    Notes, Series B, Floating Rate Notes due 2011 

New York Stock Exchange 

Medium-Term 
    Notes, Series A, Index-Linked Notes due 2037 of GS Finance
    Corp. (and Registrant s guarantee with respect
    thereto) 

NYSE Arca 

Medium-Term 
    Notes, Series B, Index-Linked Notes due 2037 

NYSE Arca 

Medium-Term 
    Notes, Series D, 7.50% Notes due 2019 

New York Stock Exchange 

6.125% Notes due 2060 

New York Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate
    by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer,
    as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.

Yes          No     

Indicate
    by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports
    pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act.

Yes          No     

Indicate
    by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
    reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes          No     

Indicate
    by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
    that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).

Yes          No     

Indicate
    by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
    Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K.      

Indicate
    by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated
    filer, an accelerated filer, a
     non-accelerated 
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act.

Large
    accelerated
    filer      Accelerated
    filer       Non-accelerated 
    filer (Do not check if a smaller reporting
    company)      Smaller
    reporting
    company    

Indicate
    by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as
    defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange
    Act).  Yes          No     

As of
    June 30, 2010, the aggregate market value of the
    common stock of the registrant held by
     non-affiliates 
    of the registrant was approximately $66.7 billion.

As of
    February 11, 2011, there were 520,507,295 shares of
    the registrant s common stock outstanding.

Documents
    incorporated by reference:   Portions of The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. s Proxy Statement for its 2011
    Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on
    May 6, 2011 are incorporated by reference in the
    Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    in response to Part III, Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC.  

ANNUAL REPORT ON
     FORM 10-K 
    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2010 

INDEX 

Form 10-K Item Number  

Page No.  

PART I  

1

Item 1 

Business 

1

Introduction 

1

Our Business Segments and Segment Operating
    Results 

1

Investment Banking 

2

Institutional Client Services 

3

Investing   Lending 

5

Investment Management 

5

Business Continuity and Information Security 

6

Employees 

6

Competition 

7

Regulation 

8

Available Information 

17

Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the
    U.S. Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 

17

Item 1A 

Risk Factors 

18

Item 1B 

Unresolved Staff Comments 

31

Item 2 

Properties 

31

Item 3 

Legal Proceedings 

31

Executive Officers of The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. 

32

PART II  

34

Item 5 

Market for Registrant s Common Equity,
    Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities 

34

Item 6 

Selected Financial Data 

34

Item 7 

Management s Discussion and Analysis of
    Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

35

Item 7A 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
    Market Risk 

96

Item 8 

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

97

Item 9 

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
    Accounting and Financial Disclosure 

213

Item 9A 

Controls and Procedures 

213

Item 9B 

Other Information 

213

PART III  

213

Item 10 

Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate
    Governance 

213

Item 11 

Executive Compensation 

213

Item 12 

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
    and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 

214

Item 13 

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,
    and Director Independence 

214

Item 14 

Principal Accountant Fees and Services 

214

PART IV  

215

Item 15 

Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 

215

SIGNATURES  

II-1

EX-10.27: Form of Non-Employee Director RSU Award Agreement    
     EX-10.28: Description of Independent Director Compensation    
     EX-10.42: Form of One-Time RSU Award Agreement    
     EX-10.45: Form of Signature Card for Equity Awards    
     EX-10.46: Form of Signature Card for Equity Awards (employees in Asia Outside China)    
     EX-10.47: Form of Signature Card for Equity Awards (employees in China)    
     EX-10.48: Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (not fully vested)    
     EX-10.49: Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (fully vested)    
     EX-10.50: Form of Year-End RSU Award Agreement (Base and/or Supplemental)    
     EX-10.51: Form of Year-End Short-Term RSU Award Agreement    
     EX-10.52: Form of Year-End Restricted Stock Award Agreement (Base and/or Supplemental)    
     EX-10.53: Form of Year-End Restricted Stock Award Agreement (fully vested)    
     EX-10.54: Form of Year-End Short-Term Restricted Stock Award Agreement    
     EX-12.1: Statement re: Computation of Ratios    
     EX-21.1: List of Significant Subsidiaries of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.    
     EX-23.1: Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
     EX-31.1: Rule 13A-14(A) Certifications    
     EX-32.1: Section 1350 Certifications    
     EX-99.1: Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Selected Financial Data    
     EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    
     EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT    

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.    

Business  

Introduction  

Goldman Sachs is a leading global investment banking, securities
    and investment management firm that provides a wide range of
    financial services to a substantial and diversified client base
    that includes corporations, financial institutions, governments
    and
     high-net-worth 
    individuals.

When we use the terms  Goldman Sachs,   the
    firm,   we,   us  and  our, 
    we mean The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.), a
    Delaware corporation, and its consolidated subsidiaries.
    References to  this
     Form 10-K  
    are to our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. All
    references to 2010, 2009 and 2008 refer to our fiscal years
    ended, or the dates, as the context requires,
    December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 and
    November 28, 2008, respectively.

Group Inc. is a bank holding company and a financial
    holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the
    Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board). Our
    U.S. depository institution subsidiary, Goldman Sachs Bank
    USA (GS Bank USA), is a New York State-chartered bank.

As of December 2010, we had offices in over 30 countries
    and 44% of our total staff was based outside the Americas (which
    includes the countries in North and South America). Our clients
    are located worldwide, and we are an active participant in
    financial markets around the world. In 2010, we generated 45% of
    our net revenues outside the Americas. For more information on
    our geographic results, see Note 27 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Our Business
    Segments and Segment Operating Results  

We report our activities in four business segments: Investment
    Banking; Institutional Client Services; Investing  
    Lending; and Investment Management. The chart below presents our
    four business segments. Prior to the end of 2010, we reported
    our activities in three segments.

1

Table of Contents   

The table below presents our segment operating results.

1.  
 
         Financial information concerning our business segments for 2010,
    2009 and 2008 (with prior periods recast to reflect our new
    segment reporting) is included in  Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  and the  Financial Statements and
    Supplementary Data,  which are in Part II,
    Items 7 and 8, respectively, of this
     Form 10-K. 
    See Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for a further breakdown of our net revenues.

2.  
 
         Includes the following expenses that have not been allocated to
    our segments: (i) charitable contributions of
    $345 million and $810 million for the years ended
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively;
    (ii) net provisions for a number of litigation and
    regulatory proceedings of $682 million, $104 million
    and $(4) million for the years ended December 2010,
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively; and
    (iii) real estate-related exit costs of $28 million,
    $61 million and $80 million for the years ended
    December 2010, December 2009 and November 2008,
    respectively.

Investment
    Banking  

Investment Banking serves corporate and government clients
    around the world. We provide financial advisory services and
    help companies raise capital to strengthen and grow their
    businesses. We seek to develop and maintain
     long-term 
    relationships with a diverse global group of institutional
    clients, including governments, states and municipalities. Our
    goal is to deliver to our clients the entire resources of the
    firm in a seamless fashion, with investment banking serving as
    the main initial point of contact with Goldman Sachs.

Financial Advisory.   Financial Advisory
    includes strategic advisory assignments with respect to mergers
    and acquisitions, divestitures, corporate defense activities,
    risk management, restructurings and
     spin-offs. 
    In particular, we help clients execute large, complex
    transactions for which we provide multiple services, including
      one-stop  
    acquisition financing and cross-border structuring expertise.

We also assist our clients in managing their asset and liability
    exposures and their capital. In addition, we may provide lending
    commitments and bank loan and bridge loan facilities in
    connection with our advisory assignments.

2

Table of Contents   

Underwriting.   The other core activity of
    Investment Banking is helping companies raise capital to fund
    their businesses. As a financial intermediary, our job is to
    match the capital of our investing clients   who aim
    to grow the savings of millions of people   with
    the needs of our corporate and government clients  
    who need financing to generate growth, create jobs and deliver
    products and services. Our underwriting activities include
    public offerings and private placements, including domestic and
    cross-border transactions, of a wide range of securities and
    other financial instruments. Underwriting also includes revenues
    from derivative transactions entered into with institutional
    clients in connection with our underwriting activities.

Equity Underwriting.    We underwrite
    common and preferred stock and convertible and exchangeable
    securities. We regularly receive mandates for large, complex
    transactions and have held a leading position in worldwide
    public common stock offerings and worldwide initial public
    offerings for many years.

Debt Underwriting.    We underwrite and
    originate various types of debt instruments, including
     investment-grade 
    and
     high-yield 
    debt, bank loans and bridge loans, and emerging and growth
    market debt, which may be issued by, among others, corporate,
    sovereign, municipal and agency issuers. In addition, we
    underwrite and originate structured securities, which include
     mortgage-related 
    securities and other
     asset-backed 
    securities.

Institutional
    Client Services  

Institutional Client Services serves our clients who come to the
    firm to buy and sell financial products, raise funding and
    manage risk. We do this by acting as a market maker and offering
    market expertise on a global basis. Institutional Client
    Services makes markets and facilitates client transactions in
    fixed income, equity, currency and commodity products. In
    addition, we make markets in and clear client transactions on
    major stock, options and futures exchanges worldwide. Market
    makers provide liquidity and play a critical role in price
    discovery, which contributes to the overall efficiency of the
    capital markets. Our willingness to make markets, commit capital
    and take risk in a broad range of products is crucial to our
    client relationships.

Our clients are primarily institutions that are professional
    market participants, including investment entities whose
    ultimate customers include individual investors investing for
    their retirement, buying insurance or putting aside surplus cash
    in a deposit account.

Through our global sales force, we maintain relationships with
    our clients, receiving orders and distributing investment
    research, trading ideas, market information and analysis. As a
    market maker, we provide prices to clients globally across
    thousands of products in all major asset classes and markets. At
    times we take the other side of transactions ourselves if a
    buyer or seller is not readily available and at other times we
    connect our clients to other parties who want to transact. Much
    of this connectivity between the firm and its clients is
    maintained on technology platforms and operates globally
    wherever and whenever markets are open for trading.

Institutional Client Services and our other businesses are
    supported by our Global Investment Research division, which, as
    of December 2010, provided fundamental research on more
    than 3,300 companies worldwide and over 45 national economies,
    as well as on industries, currencies and commodities.

Institutional Client Services generates revenues in three ways:

In large, highly liquid markets (such as markets for
    U.S. Treasury bills or large capitalization S P 500
    stocks), we execute a high volume of transactions for our
    clients for modest spreads and fees.

In less liquid markets (such as mid-cap corporate bonds and
    growth market currencies), we execute transactions for our
    clients for spreads and fees that are generally somewhat larger.

We also structure and execute transactions involving customized
    or tailor-made products that address our clients  risk
    exposures, investment objectives or other complex needs (such as
    a jet fuel hedge for an airline).

Institutional Client Services activities are organized by asset
    class and include both  cash  and
     derivative  instruments.  Cash  refers to
    trading the underlying instrument (such as a stock, bond or
    barrel of oil).  Derivative  refers to instruments
    that derive their value from underlying asset prices, indices,
    reference rates and other inputs, or a combination of these
    factors (such as an option, which is the right or obligation to
    buy or sell a certain bond or stock index on a specified date in
    the future at a certain price, or an interest rate swap, which
    is the right to convert a fixed rate of interest into a floating
    rate or vice versa).

3

Table of Contents   

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client
    Execution.   Includes interest rate products,
    credit products, mortgages, currencies and commodities.

Interest Rate Products.   Government bonds,
    money market instruments such as commercial paper, treasury
    bills, repurchase agreements and other highly liquid securities
    and instruments, as well as interest rate swaps, options and
    other derivatives.

Credit
    Products.    Investment-grade 
    corporate securities,
     high-yield 
    securities, bank and secured loans, municipal securities,
    emerging market and distressed debt, and credit derivatives.

Mortgages.   Commercial and residential
    mortgage-related securities and loan products, and other
     asset-backed 
    and derivative instruments.

Currencies.   Most currencies, including growth
    market currencies.

Commodities.   Oil and natural gas, base,
    precious and other metals, electricity, coal, agricultural and
    other commodity products.

Equities.   Includes equity client execution,
    commissions and fees, and securities services.

Equities Client Execution.    We make
    markets in equity securities and
     equity-related 
    products, including convertible securities, options, futures and
     over-the-counter 
    (OTC) derivative instruments, on a global basis. As a principal,
    we facilitate client transactions by providing liquidity to our
    clients with large blocks of stocks or options, requiring the
    commitment of our capital. In addition, we engage in insurance
    activities where we reinsure and purchase portfolios of
    insurance risk and acquire pension liabilities.

We also structure and execute derivatives on indices, industry
    groups, financial measures and individual company stocks. We
    develop strategies and provide information about portfolio
    hedging and restructuring and asset allocation transactions for
    our clients. We also work with our clients to create specially
    tailored instruments to enable sophisticated investors to
    establish or liquidate investment positions or undertake hedging
    strategies. We are one of the leading participants in the
    trading and development of equity derivative instruments.

Our exchange-based
     market-making 
    activities include making markets in stocks and
     exchange-traded 
    funds. In the United States, we are one of the leading
    Designated Market Makers (DMMs) for stocks traded on the NYSE.
    For ETFs, we are registered market makers on NYSE Arca. In
    listed options, we are registered as a primary or lead market
    maker or otherwise make markets on the International Securities
    Exchange, the Chicago Board Options Exchange, NYSE Arca, the
    Boston Options Exchange, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and
    NYSE Amex. In futures and options on futures, we are market
    makers on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and the Chicago Board
    of Trade.

Commissions and Fees.    We generate
    commissions and fees from executing and clearing institutional
    client transactions on major stock, options and futures
    exchanges worldwide. We increasingly provide our clients with
    access to electronic
      low-touch  
    equity trading platforms, and electronic trades account for the
    majority of our equity trading activity. However, a majority of
    our net revenues in these activities continue to be derived from
    our traditional
      high-touch  
    handling of more complex trades. We expect both types of
    activity to remain important.

Securities Services.    Includes
    financing, securities lending and other prime brokerage services.

Financing Services.   We provide financing to
    our clients for their securities trading activities through
    margin loans that are collateralized by securities, cash or
    other acceptable collateral. We earn a spread equal to the
    difference between the amount we pay for funds and the amount we
    receive from our client.

Securities Lending Services.   We provide
    services that principally involve borrowing and lending
    securities to cover institutional clients  short sales and
    borrowing securities to cover our short sales and otherwise to
    make deliveries into the market. In addition, we are an active
    participant in
     broker-to-broker 
    securities lending and
     third-party 
    agency lending activities.

Other Prime Brokerage Services.   We earn fees
    by providing clearing, custody and settlement services globally.
    In addition, we help our hedge fund and other clients maintain
    the infrastructure that supports their investing activity by
    providing a suite of services from the moment a client begins
    the process of establishing a new investing business. We provide
    a technology platform and reporting which enables clients to
    monitor their security portfolios, and manage risk exposures.

4

Table of Contents   

Investing  
    Lending  

Our investing and lending activities, which are typically
    longer-term, include the firm s investing and relationship
    lending activities across various asset classes, primarily
    including debt securities and loans, public and private equity
    securities, and real estate. These activities include investing
    directly in publicly and privately traded securities and also
    through certain investment funds that we manage. We also provide
    financing to our clients. We manage a diversified global
    portfolio of investments in equity and debt securities and other
    investments in privately negotiated transactions, leveraged
    buyouts, acquisitions and investments in funds managed by
    external parties.

ICBC.   We have an investment in the ordinary
    shares of ICBC, the largest bank in China.

Equity Securities (excluding ICBC).     We
    make corporate, real estate and infrastructure
     equity-related 
    investments.

Debt Securities and Loans.     We make
    corporate, real estate and infrastructure debt security-related
    investments. In addition, we provide credit to corporate clients
    through loan facilities and to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals through secured loans.

Other.     Our other investments primarily
    include our consolidated investment entities, which are entities
    we hold for investment purposes strictly for capital
    appreciation. These entities have a defined exit strategy and
    are engaged in activities that are not closely related to our
    principal businesses. We also invest directly in distressed
    assets, currencies, commodities and other assets, including
    power generation facilities.

Investment
    Management  

Investment Management provides investment and wealth advisory
    services to help clients preserve and grow their financial
    assets. Our clients include institutions and
     high-net-worth 
    individuals as well as retail investors, who access our products
    through a network of
     third-party 
    distributors around the world.

We manage client assets across a broad range of asset classes
    and investment strategies, including equity, fixed income and
    alternative investments. Alternative investments primarily
    include hedge funds, private equity, real estate, currencies,
    commodities, and asset allocation strategies. Our investment
    offerings include those managed on a fiduciary basis by our
    portfolio managers as well as strategies managed by
     third-party 
    managers. We offer our investments in a variety of structures,
    including separately managed

accounts, mutual funds, private partnerships and other
    commingled vehicles.

We also provide customized investment advisory solutions
    designed to address our clients  investment needs. These
    solutions begin with identifying clients  objectives and
    continue through portfolio construction, ongoing asset
    allocation and risk management and investment realization. We
    draw from a variety of
     third-party 
    managers as well as our proprietary offerings to implement
    solutions for clients.

We supplement our investment advisory solutions for
     high-net-worth 
    clients with wealth advisory services that include income and
    liability management, trust and estate planning, philanthropic
    giving and tax planning. We also use the firm s global
    securities and derivatives
     market-making 
    capabilities to address clients  specific investment needs.

Management and Other Fees.     The majority
    of revenues in management and other fees is comprised of
     asset-based 
    management fees on client assets. The fees that we charge vary
    by asset class and are affected by investment performance as
    well as asset inflows and redemptions. Other fees we receive
    include financial counseling fees generated through our wealth
    advisory services and fees related to the administration of real
    estate assets.

Assets under management include only those client assets where
    we earn a fee for managing assets on a discretionary basis. This
    includes assets in our mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity
    funds and separately managed accounts for institutional and
    individual investors. Assets under management do not include the
     self-directed 
    assets of our clients, including brokerage accounts, or
    interest-bearing deposits held through our bank depository
    institution subsidiaries.

Incentive Fees.   In certain circumstances, we
    are also entitled to receive incentive fees based on a
    percentage of a fund s or a separately managed
    account s return, or when the return exceeds a specified
    benchmark or other performance targets. Such fees include
    overrides, which consist of the increased share of the income
    and gains derived primarily from our private equity and real
    estate funds when the return on a fund s investments over
    the life of the fund exceeds certain threshold returns.
    Incentive fees are recognized only when all material
    contingencies are resolved.

Transaction Revenues.   We receive commissions
    and net spreads for facilitating transactional activity in
     high-net-worth 
    client accounts. In addition, we earn net interest income
    primarily associated with client deposits and margin lending
    activity undertaken by such clients.

5

Table of Contents   

The tables below present assets under management by asset class
    and by distribution channel and client category.

Business
    Continuity and Information Security  

Business continuity and information security are high priorities
    for Goldman Sachs. Our Business Continuity Program has been
    developed to provide reasonable assurance of business continuity
    in the event of disruptions at the firm s critical
    facilities and to comply with regulatory requirements, including
    those of FINRA. Because we are a bank holding company, our
    Business Continuity Program is also subject to review by the
    Federal Reserve Board. The key elements of the program are
    crisis management, people recovery facilities, business
    recovery, systems and data recovery, and process improvement. In
    the area of information security, we have developed and
    implemented a framework of principles, policies and technology
    to protect the information assets of the firm and our clients.
    Safeguards are applied to maintain the confidentiality,
    integrity and availability of information resources.

Employees  

Management believes that a major strength and principal reason
    for the success of Goldman Sachs is the quality and
    dedication of our people and the shared sense of being part
    of a team. We strive to maintain a work environment that fosters
    professionalism, excellence, diversity, cooperation among our
    employees worldwide and high standards of business ethics.

Instilling the Goldman Sachs culture in all employees is a
    continuous process, in which training plays an important part.
    All employees are offered the opportunity to participate in
    education and periodic seminars that we sponsor at various
    locations throughout the world. Another important part of
    instilling the Goldman Sachs culture is our employee review
    process. Employees are reviewed by supervisors, co-workers and
    employees they supervise in a
     360-degree 
    review process that is integral to our team approach, and
    includes an evaluation of an employee s performance with
    respect to risk management, compliance and diversity.

As of December 2010, we had 35,700 total staff, excluding
    staff at consolidated entities held for investment purposes. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Results of
    Operations   Operating Expenses  in Part II,
    Item 7 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for additional information on our consolidated entities held for
    investment purposes.

6

Table of Contents   

Competition  

The financial services industry   and all of our
    businesses   are intensely competitive, and we expect
    them to remain so. Our competitors are other entities that
    provide investment banking, securities and investment management
    services, as well as those entities that make investments in
    securities, commodities, derivatives, real estate, loans and
    other financial assets. These entities include brokers and
    dealers, investment banking firms, commercial banks, insurance
    companies, investment advisers, mutual funds, hedge funds,
    private equity funds and merchant banks. We compete with some
    entities globally and with others on a regional, product or
    niche basis. Our competition is based on a number of factors,
    including transaction execution, our products and services,
    innovation, reputation and price.

We also face intense competition in attracting and retaining
    qualified employees. Our ability to continue to compete
    effectively will depend upon our ability to attract new
    employees, retain and motivate our existing employees and to
    continue to compensate employees competitively amid intense
    public and regulatory scrutiny on the compensation practices of
    large financial institutions. Our pay practices and those of our
    principal competitors are subject to review by, and the
    standards of, the Federal Reserve Board and regulators outside
    the United States, including the Financial Services Authority
    (FSA) in the United Kingdom. See  Regulation  
    Banking Regulation  and  Regulation  
    Compensation Practices  below and  Risk
    Factors   Our businesses may be adversely affected if
    we are unable to hire and retain qualified employees  in
    Part I, Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K 
    for more information on the regulation of our compensation
    practices.

Over time, there has been substantial consolidation and
    convergence among companies in the financial services industry.
    This trend accelerated in recent years as the credit crisis
    caused numerous mergers and asset acquisitions among industry
    participants. Many commercial banks and other
     broad-based 
    financial services firms have had the ability for some time to
    offer a wide range of products, from loans, deposit-taking and
    insurance to brokerage, asset management and investment banking
    services, which may enhance their competitive position. They
    also have had the ability to support investment banking and
    securities products with commercial banking, insurance and other
    financial services revenues in an effort to gain market share,
    which has resulted in pricing pressure in our investment banking
    and client execution

businesses and could result in pricing pressure in other of our
    businesses.

Moreover, we have faced, and expect to continue to face,
    pressure to retain market share by committing capital to
    businesses or transactions on terms that offer returns that may
    not be commensurate with their risks. In particular, corporate
    clients seek such commitments (such as agreements to participate
    in their commercial paper backstop or other loan facilities)
    from financial services firms in connection with investment
    banking and other assignments.

Consolidation and convergence have significantly increased the
    capital base and geographic reach of some of our competitors,
    and have also hastened the globalization of the securities and
    other financial services markets. As a result, we have had to
    commit capital to support our international operations and to
    execute large global transactions. To take advantage of some of
    our most significant challenges and opportunities, we will have
    to compete successfully with financial institutions that are
    larger and have more capital and that may have a stronger local
    presence and longer operating history outside the United States.

We have experienced intense price competition in some of our
    businesses in recent years. For example, over the past several
    years the increasing volume of trades executed electronically,
    through the internet and through alternative trading systems,
    has increased the pressure on trading commissions, in that
    commissions for
      low-touch  
    electronic trading are generally lower than for
      high-touch  
     non-electronic 
    trading. It appears that this trend toward electronic and other
      low-touch,  
     low-commission 
    trading will continue. In addition, we believe that we will
    continue to experience competitive pressures in these and other
    areas in the future as some of our competitors seek to obtain
    market share by further reducing prices.

The provisions of the
     U.S. Dodd-Frank 
    Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act)
    and other financial regulation could affect our competitive
    position to the extent that limitations on activities, increased
    fees and compliance costs or other regulatory requirements do
    not apply, or do not apply equally, to all of our competitors.
    The impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our competitive position
    will depend to a large extent on the details of the required
    rulemaking, as discussed further under  Regulation 
    below.

7

Table of Contents   

Regulation  

As a participant in the banking, securities, futures and options
    and insurance industries, we are subject to extensive regulation
    worldwide. Regulatory bodies around the world are generally
    charged with safeguarding the integrity of the securities and
    other financial markets and with protecting the interests of the
    customers of market participants, including depositors in
    banking entities and the customers of
     broker-dealers. 
    They are not, however, generally charged with protecting the
    interests of security holders.

The financial services industry has been the subject of intense
    regulatory scrutiny in recent years. Our businesses have been
    subject to increasing regulation in the United States and other
    countries, and we expect this trend to continue in the future.
    The Dodd-Frank Act, which was enacted in July 2010,
    significantly alters the framework within which we operate,
    including through the creation of a new systemic risk oversight
    body, the Financial Stability Oversight Council (FSOC). The FSOC
    will oversee and coordinate the efforts of the primary
    U.S. financial regulatory agencies (including the Federal
    Reserve Board, the SEC, the CFTC and the FDIC) in establishing
    regulations to address financial stability concerns. The
    Dodd-Frank Act directs the FSOC to make recommendations to the
    Federal Reserve Board as to supervisory requirements and
    prudential standards applicable to systemically important
    financial institutions, including
     risk-based 
    capital, leverage, liquidity and
     risk-management 
    requirements. The Dodd-Frank Act mandates that the requirements
    applicable to systemically important financial institutions be
    more stringent than those applicable to other financial
    companies. Although the criteria for treatment as a systemically
    important financial institution have not yet been determined, it
    is probable that they will apply to our firm.

The implications of the Dodd-Frank Act for our businesses will
    depend to a large extent on the provisions of required future
    rulemaking by the Federal Reserve, the FDIC, the SEC, the CFTC
    and other agencies, as well as the development of market
    practices and structures under the regime established by the
    legislation and the rules adopted pursuant to it, as discussed
    further throughout this section.

Banking
    Regulation  

In September 2008, Group Inc. became a bank holding
    company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956 (BHC Act) and
    the Federal Reserve Board became the primary regulator of
    Group Inc., as a consolidated entity. In August 2009,
    Group Inc. became a financial holding company under
    amendments to the BHC Act effected by the
     U.S. Gramm-Leach-Bliley 
    Act of 1999 (GLB Act).

Supervision and
    Regulation  

As a bank holding company and a financial holding company under
    the BHC Act, Group Inc. is subject to supervision and
    examination by the Federal Reserve Board. Under the system of
     functional regulation  established under the BHC Act,
    the Federal Reserve Board serves as the primary regulator of our
    consolidated organization, but generally defers to the primary
    regulators of our
     U.S. non-bank 
    subsidiaries with respect to the activities of those
    subsidiaries. Such  functionally regulated 
     non-bank 
    subsidiaries include
     broker-dealers 
    registered with the SEC, such as our principal
     U.S. broker-dealer, 
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. (GS Co.), insurance
    companies regulated by state insurance authorities, investment
    advisers registered with the SEC with respect to their
    investment advisory activities and entities regulated by the
    CFTC with respect to certain futures-related activities.

Activities  

The BHC Act generally restricts bank holding companies from
    engaging in business activities other than the business of
    banking and certain closely related activities. As a financial
    holding company, we may engage in a broader range of financial
    and related activities than are permissible for bank holding
    companies as long as we continue to meet the  eligibility
    requirements for financial holding companies, including our
    U.S. depository institution subsidiaries (consisting of
    GS Bank USA and our national bank trust company subsidiary)
    maintaining their status as  well-capitalized  and
     well-managed  as described under
       Prompt Corrective Action  below. These
    activities include underwriting, dealing and making markets in
    securities, insurance underwriting and making investments in
    nonfinancial companies. In addition, we are permitted under the
    GLB Act to continue to engage in certain commodities
    activities in the United States that would otherwise be
    impermissible for bank holding companies, so long as the assets
    held pursuant to these activities do not equal 5% or more of our
    consolidated assets.

8

Table of Contents   

Beginning in July 2011, our financial holding company
    status will also depend on Group Inc. s maintaining
    its status as  well-capitalized  and
     well-managed. 

As a bank holding company, we are required to obtain prior
    Federal Reserve Board approval before directly or indirectly
    acquiring more than 5% of any class of voting shares of any
    unaffiliated depository institution. In addition, as a bank
    holding company, we may generally engage in banking and other
    financial activities abroad, including investing in and owning
     non-U.S. banks, 
    if those activities and investments do not exceed certain limits
    and, in some cases, if we have obtained the prior approval of
    the Federal Reserve Board.

We expect to face additional limitations on our activities upon
    implementation of those provisions of the
     Dodd-Frank 
    Act referred to as the  Volcker Rule,  which will
    prohibit  proprietary trading  (other than for certain
     risk-mitigation 
    activities) and limit the sponsorship of, and investment in,
    hedge funds and private equity funds by banking entities,
    including bank holding companies such as us. The extent of the
    additional limitations will depend on the details of agency
    rulemaking. The Volcker Rule provisions will take effect no
    later than July 2012, and companies will be required to
    come into compliance within two years after the effective date
    (subject to possible extensions).

Capital and
    Liquidity Requirements  

As a bank holding company, we are subject to consolidated
    regulatory capital requirements administered by the Federal
    Reserve Board. GS Bank USA is subject to broadly similar
    capital requirements, as discussed below. Under the Federal
    Reserve Board s capital adequacy requirements and the
    regulatory framework for prompt corrective action that is
    applicable to GS Bank USA, Group Inc. and GS Bank
    USA must meet specific regulatory capital requirements that
    involve quantitative measures of assets, liabilities and certain
     off-balance-sheet 
    items. The calculation of our capital levels and those of
    GS Bank USA, as well as GS Bank USA s prompt
    corrective action classification, are also subject to
    qualitative judgments by regulators.

Tier 1 Leverage and Basel I Capital
    Ratios.   See Note 20 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for information on our Tier 1 capital ratio, Tier 1
    capital, total capital,
     risk-weighted 
    assets and Tier 1 leverage ratio, and for a discussion of
    minimum required ratios.

Pending Changes in Capital Requirements.   We
    are currently working to implement the requirements set out in
    the Federal Reserve Board s Capital Adequacy Guidelines for
    Bank Holding Companies: Internal Ratings-Based and Advanced
    Measurement Approaches, which are based on the advanced
    approaches under the Revised Framework for the International
    Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued
    by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (Basel Committee)
    as such requirements apply to us as a bank holding company
    (Basel 2). U.S. banking regulators have incorporated
    the Basel 2 framework into the existing
     risk-based 
    capital requirements by requiring that internationally active
    banking organizations, such as us, transition to Basel 2
    following the successful completion of a parallel run.

In addition, the Basel Committee has undertaken a program of
    substantial revisions to its capital guidelines. In particular,
    the changes in the  Basel 2.5  guidelines will
    result in increased capital requirements for market risk.
    Additionally, the Basel 3 guidelines issued by the Basel
    Committee in December 2010 revise the definition of
    Tier 1 capital, introduce Tier 1 common equity as a
    regulatory metric, set new minimum capital ratios (including a
    new  capital conservation buffer,  which must be
    composed exclusively of Tier 1 common equity and will be in
    addition to the other capital ratios), introduce a Tier 1
    leverage ratio within international guidelines for the first
    time, and make substantial revisions to the computation of
     risk-weighted 
    assets for credit exposures. Implementation of the new
    requirements is expected to take place over an extended
    transition period, starting at the end of 2011 (for
    Basel 2.5) and end of 2012 (for Basel 3). Although the
    U.S. federal banking agencies have now issued proposed
    rules that are intended to implement certain aspects of the
    Basel 2.5 guidelines, they have not yet addressed all
    aspects of those guidelines or the Basel 3 changes. In
    addition, both the Basel Committee and U.S. banking
    regulators implementing the Dodd-Frank Act have indicated that
    they will impose more stringent capital standards on
    systemically important financial institutions. Therefore, the
    regulations ultimately applicable to us may be substantially
    different from those that have been published to date.

9

Table of Contents   

The Dodd-Frank Act will subject Goldman Sachs at a firmwide
    level to the same leverage and
     risk-based 
    capital requirements that apply to depository institutions, and
    directs banking regulators to impose additional capital
    requirements, as discussed above. The Federal Reserve Board will
    be required to begin implementing the new leverage and
     risk-based 
    capital regulation by January 2012. As a consequence of
    these changes, Tier 1 capital treatment for our junior
    subordinated debt issued to trusts and our cumulative preferred
    stock will be phased out over a three-year period beginning on
    January 1, 2013. The interaction between the
    Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel Committee s proposed changes
    adds further uncertainty to our future capital requirements. For
    example, regulations implementing provisions of the Dodd-Frank
    Act are expected to subject us to a continuing  floor 
    of the Federal Reserve Board s regulatory requirements
    currently applicable to bank holding companies (Basel 1),
    which are based on the Capital Accord of the Basel Committee, in
    cases where Basel 2 or Basel 3 would otherwise permit lower
    capital requirements.

Liquidity Ratios under Basel 3.   Historically,
    regulation and monitoring of bank and bank holding company
    liquidity has been addressed as a supervisory matter, both in
    the U.S. and internationally, without required formulaic
    measures. Basel 3 will require banks and bank holding companies
    to measure their liquidity against two specific liquidity tests
    that, although similar in some respects to liquidity measures
    historically applied by banks and regulators for management and
    supervisory purposes, will be required by regulation. One test,
    referred to as the liquidity coverage ratio, is designed to
    ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate level of
    unencumbered
     high-quality 
    liquid assets equal to the entity s expected net cash
    outflow for a
     30-day  time
    horizon (or, if greater, 25% of its expected total cash outflow)
    under an acute liquidity stress scenario. The other, referred to
    as the net stable funding ratio, is designed to promote more
    medium- and
     long-term 
    funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a
     one-year 
    time horizon. These requirements may incent banking entities to
    increase their holdings of U.S. Treasury securities and
    other sovereign debt as a component of assets and increase the
    use of
     long-term 
    debt as a funding source. The liquidity coverage ratio would be
    implemented subject to an observation period beginning in 2011,
    but would not be introduced as a requirement until
    January 1, 2015, and the net stable funding ratio
    would not be introduced as a requirement until
    January 1, 2018. These new standards are subject to
    further rulemaking and their terms may change before
    implementation.

Payment of
    Dividends  

Dividend payments by Group Inc. to its shareholders are
    subject to the oversight of the Federal Reserve Board. Under
    temporary guidance issued by the Federal Reserve Board in
    November 2010, the dividend policy of large bank holding
    companies, such as Goldman Sachs, is reviewed by the Federal
    Reserve Board based on capital plans and stress tests submitted
    by the bank holding company, and will be assessed against, among
    other things, the ability to achieve the Basel 3 capital ratio
    requirements referred to above as they are phased in by
    U.S. regulators and any potential impact of the Dodd-Frank
    Act on the company s risk profile, business strategy,
    corporate structure or capital adequacy. The Federal
    Reserve s current guidance provides that, for large bank
    holding companies like us, dividend payout ratios exceeding 30%
    of after-tax net income will receive particularly close scrutiny.

Federal and state law imposes limitations on the payment of
    dividends by our depository institution subsidiaries to
    Group Inc. In general, the amount of dividends that may be
    paid by GS Bank USA or our national bank trust company
    subsidiary is limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated
    under a  recent earnings  test and an  undivided
    profits  test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend
    may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by the
    entity in any calendar year is in excess of the current
    year s net income combined with the retained net income of
    the two preceding years, unless the entity obtains prior
    regulatory approval. Under the undivided profits test, a
    dividend may not be paid in excess of the entity s
     undivided profits  (generally, accumulated net
    profits that have not been paid out as dividends or transferred
    to surplus). While GS Bank USA could have declared
    dividends of $4.63 billion to Group Inc. as of
    December 2010 in accordance with these limitations, the
    banking regulators have overriding authority to prohibit the
    payment of any dividends by GS Bank USA. In addition to the
    dividend restrictions described above, the banking regulators
    have authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends
    by the banking organizations they supervise if, in the banking
    regulator s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute
    an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial
    condition of the banking organization.

In addition, certain of Group Inc. s
     non-bank 
    subsidiaries are subject to separate regulatory limitations on
    dividends and distributions, including our
     broker-dealer 
    and our insurance subsidiaries as described below.

10

Table of Contents   

Source of
    Strength  

Federal Reserve Board policy historically has required bank
    holding companies to act as a source of strength to their bank
    subsidiaries and to commit capital and financial resources to
    support those subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act codifies this
    policy as a statutory requirement. This support may be required
    by the Federal Reserve Board at times when we might otherwise
    determine not to provide it. Capital loans by a bank holding
    company to a subsidiary bank are subordinate in right of payment
    to deposits and to certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary
    bank. In the event of a bank holding company s bankruptcy,
    any commitment by the bank holding company to a federal bank
    regulator to maintain the capital of a subsidiary bank will be
    assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to priority
    payment.

However, because the BHC Act provides for functional regulation
    of bank holding company activities by various regulators, the
    BHC Act prohibits the Federal Reserve Board from requiring
    payment by a holding company or subsidiary to a depository
    institution if the functional regulator of the payor entity
    objects to such payment. In such a case, the Federal Reserve
    Board could instead require the divestiture of the depository
    institution and impose operating restrictions pending the
    divestiture.

Cross-guarantee
    Provisions  

Each insured depository institution  controlled  (as
    defined in the BHC Act) by the same bank holding company can be
    held liable to the FDIC for any loss incurred, or reasonably
    expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of any
    other insured depository institution controlled by that holding
    company and for any assistance provided by the FDIC to any of
    those depository institutions that is in danger of default. Such
    a  cross-guarantee  claim against a depository
    institution is generally superior in right of payment to claims
    of the holding company and its affiliates against that
    depository institution. At this time, we control only one
    insured depository institution for this purpose, namely
    GS Bank USA. However, if, in the future, we were to control
    other insured depository institutions, the cross-guarantee would
    apply to all such insured depository institutions.

Compensation
    Practices  

Our compensation practices are subject to oversight by the
    Federal Reserve Board and, with respect to some of our
    subsidiaries and employees, by other financial regulatory bodies
    worldwide. The scope and content of compensation regulation in
    the financial industry are continuing to develop, and we expect
    that these policies will evolve over a number of years.

The Dodd-Frank Act requires the U.S. financial regulators,
    including the Federal Reserve Board, to establish joint
    regulations or guidelines prohibiting incentive-based payment
    arrangements at specified regulated entities having at least
    $1 billion in total assets (which would include
    Group Inc. and some of its depositary institution,
     broker-dealer 
    and investment advisor subsidiaries) that encourage
    inappropriate risks by providing an executive officer, employee,
    director or principal shareholder with excessive compensation,
    fees, or benefits or that could lead to material financial loss
    to the entity. In addition, these regulators must establish
    regulations or guidelines requiring enhanced disclosure to
    regulators of incentive-based compensation arrangements. The
    initial version of these regulations was proposed by the FDIC in
    February 2011 and the regulations may become effective
    before the end of 2011. If the regulations are adopted in the
    form initially proposed, they will impose limitations on the
    manner in which we may structure compensation for our executives.

In June 2010, the Federal Reserve Board and other financial
    regulators jointly issued guidance designed to ensure that
    incentive compensation arrangements at banking organizations
    take into account risk and are consistent with safe and
    sound practices. The guidance sets forth the following three key
    principles with respect to incentive compensation arrangements:
    the arrangements should provide employees incentives that
    appropriately balance risk and financial results in
    a manner that does not encourage employees to expose their
    organizations to imprudent risk; the arrangements should be
    compatible with effective controls and risk management; and the
    arrangements should be supported by strong corporate governance.
    These three principles are incorporated into the proposed joint
    compensation regulations under
     Dodd-Frank, 
    discussed above. In addition, the Federal Reserve Board has
    conducted a review of the incentive compensation policies and
    practices of a number of large, complex banking organizations,
    including us. The June 2010 guidance provides that
    supervisory findings with respect to incentive compensation will
    be incorporated, as appropriate, into the organization s
    supervisory ratings, which can affect its ability to make
    acquisitions or perform other actions. The guidance also
    provides that enforcement actions may be taken against a banking
    organization if its incentive compensation arrangements or
    related risk management, control or governance processes pose a
    risk to the organization s safety and soundness.

11

Table of Contents   

The Financial Stability Board, established at the direction of
    the leaders of the Group of 20, has released standards for
    implementing certain compensation principles for banks and other
    financial companies designed to encourage sound compensation
    practices. These standards are to be implemented by local
    regulators. In July 2010, the European Parliament adopted
    amendments to the Capital Requirements Directive designed to
    implement the Financial Stability Board s compensation
    standards within the EU. Regulators in a number of countries,
    including the United Kingdom, France and Germany, have proposed
    or adopted compensation policies or regulations applicable to
    financial institutions pursuant to the Capital Requirements
    Directive. These are in addition to the proposals and guidance
    issued by U.S. financial regulators discussed above.

GS Bank
    USA  

Our subsidiary, GS Bank USA, an FDIC-insured, New York
    State-chartered bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System
    and the FDIC, is regulated by the Federal Reserve Board and the
    New York State Banking Department and is subject to minimum
    capital requirements (described further below) that are
    calculated in a manner similar to those applicable to bank
    holding companies. A number of our activities are conducted
    partially or entirely through GS Bank USA and its
    subsidiaries, including: origination of and market making in
    bank loans; interest rate, credit, currency and other
    derivatives; leveraged finance; commercial and residential
    mortgage origination, trading and servicing; structured finance;
    and agency lending, custody and hedge fund administration
    services. These activities are subject to regulation by the
    Federal Reserve Board, the New York State Banking Department and
    the FDIC.

The Dodd-Frank Act contains  derivative push-out 
    provisions that, beginning in July 2012, will essentially
    prevent us from conducting certain
     swaps-related 
    activities through GS Bank USA or another insured
    depository institution subsidiary, subject to exceptions for
    certain interest rate and currency swaps and for hedging or risk
    mitigation activities directly related to the bank s
    business. These precluded activities may be conducted elsewhere
    within the firm, subject to certain requirements.

Transactions with
    Affiliates  

Transactions between GS Bank USA and Group Inc. and
    its subsidiaries and affiliates are regulated by the Federal
    Reserve Board. These regulations limit the types and amounts of
    transactions (including loans to and credit extensions from
    GS Bank USA) that may take place and generally require
    those transactions to be on an arm s-length basis. These
    regulations generally do not apply to transactions between
    GS Bank USA and its subsidiaries. The Dodd-Frank Act
    significantly expands the coverage and scope of the regulations
    that limit affiliate transactions within a banking organization,
    including coverage of the credit exposure on derivative
    transactions, repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements,
    securities borrowing and lending transactions, and transactions
    with sponsored hedge funds and private equity funds.

In November 2008, Group Inc. transferred assets and
    operations to GS Bank USA. In connection with this
    transfer, Group Inc. entered into a guarantee agreement
    with GS Bank USA whereby Group Inc. agreed to
    (i) purchase from GS Bank USA certain transferred
    assets (other than derivatives and mortgage servicing rights) or
    reimburse GS Bank USA for certain losses relating to those
    assets; (ii) reimburse GS Bank USA for
     credit-related 
    losses from assets transferred to GS Bank USA;
    (iii) protect GS Bank USA or reimburse it for certain
    losses arising from derivatives and mortgage servicing rights
    transferred to GS Bank USA; and (iv) pledge collateral
    to GS Bank USA.

The Dodd-Frank Act will require us to prepare and provide to
    regulators a resolution plan (a so-called  living
    will ) that must, among other things, ensure that our
    depository institution subsidiaries are adequately protected
    from risks arising from our other subsidiaries. The
    establishment and maintenance of this resolution plan may, as a
    practical matter, present additional constraints on our entity
    structure and transactions among our subsidiaries.

12

Table of Contents   

Deposit
    Insurance  

GS Bank USA accepts deposits, and those deposits have the
    benefit of FDIC insurance up to the applicable limits. The
    FDIC s Deposit Insurance Fund is funded by assessments on
    insured depository institutions, such as GS Bank USA, and
    these assessments are currently based on the risk category of an
    institution and the amount of insured deposits that it holds.
    The FDIC required all insured depository institutions to prepay
    estimated assessments for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 on
    December 30, 2009. The FDIC may increase or decrease
    the assessment rate schedule on a
     semi-annual 
    basis. In accordance with the Dodd-Frank Act, the FDIC amended
    its regulations, effective April 1, 2011, to base insurance
    assessments on the average total consolidated assets less the
    average tangible equity of the insured depository institution
    during the assessment period.

Prompt Corrective
    Action  

The U.S. Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement
    Act of 1991 (FDICIA), among other things, requires the federal
    banking agencies to take  prompt corrective action  in
    respect of depository institutions that do not meet specified
    capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital categories
    for FDIC-insured banks: well-capitalized, adequately
    capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized
    and critically undercapitalized.

A depository institution is generally deemed to be
      well-capitalized,  
    the highest category, if it has a Tier 1 capital ratio of
    at least 6%, a total capital ratio of at least 10% and a
    Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 5%. In connection with
    the November 2008 asset transfer described under
     Transactions with Affiliates  below, GS Bank USA
    agreed with the Federal Reserve Board to maintain minimum
    capital ratios in excess of these  well-capitalized 
    levels.

See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for information on the calculation of GS Bank USA s
    capital ratios under Basel 1 and for a discussion of
    minimum required ratios.

GS Bank USA computes its capital ratios in accordance with
    the regulatory capital requirements currently applicable to
    state member banks, which are based on Basel 1 as implemented by
    the Federal Reserve Board. An institution may be downgraded to,
    or deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than is
    indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an
    unsafe or unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory
    examination rating with respect to certain matters. FDICIA
    imposes progressively more restrictive constraints on
    operations, management and capital distributions, as the capital
    category of an institution

declines. Failure to meet the capital requirements could also
    subject a depository institution to capital raising
    requirements. Ultimately, critically undercapitalized
    institutions are subject to the appointment of a receiver or
    conservator.

The prompt corrective action regulations apply only to
    depository institutions and not to bank holding companies such
    as Group Inc. However, the Federal Reserve Board is
    authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company
    level, based upon the undercapitalized status of the holding
    company s depository institution subsidiaries. In certain
    instances relating to an undercapitalized depository institution
    subsidiary, the bank holding company would be required to
    guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized
    subsidiary s capital restoration plan and might be liable
    for civil money damages for failure to fulfill its commitments
    on that guarantee. Furthermore, in the event of the bankruptcy
    of the holding company, the guarantee would take priority over
    the holding company s general unsecured creditors.

Insolvency of an
    Insured Depository Institution or a Bank Holding
    Company  

If the FDIC is appointed the conservator or receiver of an
    insured depository institution such as GS Bank USA, upon
    its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the
    power:

to transfer any of the depository institution s assets and
    liabilities to a new obligor without the approval of the
    depository institution s creditors;

to enforce the terms of the depository institution s
    contracts pursuant to their terms; or

to repudiate or disaffirm any contract or lease to which the
    depository institution is a party, the performance of which is
    determined by the FDIC to be burdensome and the disaffirmance or
    repudiation of which is determined by the FDIC to promote the
    orderly administration of the depository institution.

In addition, under federal law, the claims of holders of deposit
    liabilities and certain claims for administrative expenses
    against an insured depository institution would be afforded a
    priority over other general unsecured claims against such an
    institution, including claims of debt holders of the
    institution, in the  liquidation or other resolution 
    of such an institution by any receiver. As a result, whether or
    not the FDIC ever sought to repudiate any debt obligations of
    GS Bank USA, the debt holders would be treated differently
    from, and could receive, if anything, substantially less than,
    the depositors of the depository institution.

13

Table of Contents   

The Dodd-Frank Act creates a resolution regime for systemically
    important
     non-bank 
    financial companies, including bank holding companies and their
    affiliates, under which the FDIC may be appointed receiver to
    liquidate the entity. This resolution authority was based on the
    FDIC resolution model for depository institutions, with certain
    modifications to reflect differences between depository
    institutions and
     non-bank 
    financial companies and to reduce disparities between the
    treatment of creditors  claims under the
    U.S. Bankruptcy Code and in an orderly liquidation
    authority proceeding compared to those that would exist under
    the resolution model for depository institutions.

Trust Companies  

Group Inc. s two limited purpose trust company
    subsidiaries are not permitted to and do not accept deposits or
    make loans (other than as incidental to their trust
    activities) and, as a result, are not insured by the FDIC. The
    Goldman Sachs Trust Company, N.A., a national banking
    association that is limited to fiduciary activities, is
    regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
    and is a member bank of the Federal Reserve System. The Goldman
    Sachs Trust Company of Delaware, a Delaware limited purpose
    trust company, is regulated by the Office of the Delaware State
    Bank Commissioner.

U.S. Securities
    and Commodities Regulation  

Goldman Sachs 
     broker-dealer 
    subsidiaries are subject to regulations that cover all aspects
    of the securities business, including sales methods, trade
    practices, use and safekeeping of clients  funds and
    securities, capital structure, recordkeeping, the financing of
    clients  purchases, and the conduct of directors, officers
    and employees. In the United States, the SEC is the federal
    agency responsible for the administration of the federal
    securities laws. GS Co. is registered as a
     broker-dealer, 
    a municipal advisor and an investment adviser with the SEC and
    as a
     broker-dealer 
    in all 50 states and the District of Columbia.
    Self-regulatory organizations, such as FINRA and the NYSE, adopt
    rules that apply to, and examine,
     broker-dealers 
    such as GS Co.

In addition, state securities and other regulators also have
    regulatory or oversight authority over GS Co. Similarly,
    our businesses are also subject to regulation by various
     non-U.S. governmental 
    and regulatory bodies and self-regulatory authorities in
    virtually all countries where we have offices. Goldman Sachs
    Execution   Clearing, L.P. (GSEC) and one of its
    subsidiaries are registered
     U.S. broker-dealers 
    and are

regulated by the SEC, the NYSE and FINRA. Goldman Sachs
    Financial Markets, L.P. is registered with the SEC as an OTC
    derivatives dealer and conducts certain OTC derivatives
    activities.

The commodity futures and commodity options industry in the
    United States is subject to regulation under the
    U.S. Commodity Exchange Act (CEA). The CFTC is the federal
    agency charged with the administration of the CEA. Several of
    Goldman Sachs  subsidiaries, including GS Co. and
    GSEC, are registered with the CFTC and act as futures commission
    merchants, commodity pool operators or commodity trading
    advisors and are subject to CEA regulations. The rules and
    regulations of various self-regulatory organizations, such as
    the Chicago Board of Trade and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange,
    other futures exchanges and the National Futures Association,
    also govern the commodity futures and commodity options
    activities of these entities.

For a discussion of net capital requirements applicable to
    GS Co. and GSEC, see Note 20 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Our exchange-based
     market-making 
    activities are subject to extensive regulation by a number of
    securities exchanges. As a DMM on the NYSE and as a market maker
    on other exchanges, we are required to maintain orderly markets
    in the securities to which we are assigned. Under the
    NYSE s DMM rules, this may require us to supply liquidity
    to these markets in certain circumstances.

J. Aron   Company is authorized by the
    U.S. Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to sell
    wholesale physical power at
     market-based 
    rates. As a FERC-authorized power marketer, J. Aron  
    Company is subject to regulation under the U.S. Federal
    Power Act and FERC regulations and to the oversight of FERC. As
    a result of our investing activities, GS Co. is also an
     exempt holding company  under the U.S. Public
    Utility Holding Company Act of 2005 and applicable FERC rules.

In addition, as a result of our power-related and commodities
    activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy,
    environmental and other governmental laws and regulations, as
    discussed under  Risk
     Factors   Our 
    commodities activities, particularly our power generation
    interests and our physical commodities activities, subject us to
    extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and
    environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us
    to significant liabilities and costs  in Part I,
    Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K. 

14

Table of Contents   

The Dodd-Frank Act will result in additional regulation of our
     broker-dealer 
    and regulated subsidiaries in a number of respects. The
    legislation calls for the imposition of expanded standards of
    care by market participants in dealing with clients and
    customers, including by providing the SEC with authority to
    adopt rules establishing fiduciary duties for
     broker-dealers 
    and directing the SEC to examine and improve sales practices and
    disclosure by
     broker-dealers 
    and investment advisers. The Dodd-Frank Act also contains
    provisions designed to increase transparency in
     over-the-counter 
    derivatives markets by requiring the registration of all swap
    dealers and
     security-based 
    swap dealers, and the clearing and execution of
     swaps  through regulated facilities (subject to
    limited exceptions, including swaps with
     non-financial 
    end users and swaps that are not cleared by a clearing agency).
    Furthermore, federal banking agencies are required under the
    Dodd-Frank Act to develop rules whereby anyone who organizes or
    initiates an
     asset-backed 
    security transaction must retain a portion (generally, at least
    five percent) of any credit risk that the person conveys to a
    third party.

Other Regulation
    in the United States  

Our U.S. insurance subsidiaries are subject to state
    insurance regulation and oversight in the states in which they
    are domiciled and in the other states in which they are
    licensed, and Group Inc. is subject to oversight as an
    insurance holding company in states where our insurance
    subsidiaries are domiciled. State insurance regulations limit
    the ability of our insurance subsidiaries to pay dividends to
    Group Inc. in certain circumstances, and could require
    regulatory approval for any change in  control  of
    Group Inc., which may include control of 10% or more of our
    voting stock. In addition, a number of our other activities,
    including our lending and mortgage activities, require us to
    obtain licenses, adhere to applicable regulations and be subject
    to the oversight of various regulators in the states in which we
    conduct these activities.

The U.S. Bank Secrecy Act (BSA), as amended by the USA
    PATRIOT Act of 2001 (PATRIOT Act), contains
     anti-money 
    laundering and financial transparency laws and mandated the
    implementation of various regulations applicable to all
    financial institutions, including standards for verifying client
    identification at account opening, and obligations to monitor
    client transactions and report suspicious activities. Through
    these and other provisions, the BSA and the PATRIOT Act seek to
    promote the identification of parties that may be involved in
    terrorism, money laundering or other suspicious activities.
    Anti-money laundering laws outside the United States contain
    some similar

provisions. The obligation of financial institutions, including
    Goldman Sachs, to identify their clients, to monitor for and
    report suspicious transactions, to respond to requests for
    information by regulatory authorities and law enforcement
    agencies, and to share information with other financial
    institutions, has required the implementation and maintenance of
    internal practices, procedures and controls that have increased,
    and may continue to increase, our costs, and any failure with
    respect to our programs in this area could subject us to
    substantial liability and regulatory fines.

Regulation Outside
    the United States  

Goldman Sachs provides investment services in and from the
    United Kingdom under the regulation of the FSA. Goldman Sachs
    International (GSI), our regulated U.K.
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to the capital requirements imposed by the FSA. Other
    subsidiaries, including Goldman Sachs International Bank (GSIB),
    our regulated U.K. bank, are also regulated by the FSA. As of
    December 2010, GSI and GSIB were in compliance with the FSA
    capital requirements.

Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC (GS Bank Europe), our
    regulated Irish bank, is subject to minimum capital requirements
    imposed by the Central Bank of Ireland. As of
    December 2010, this bank was in compliance with all
    regulatory capital requirements. Group Inc. has issued a
    general guarantee of the obligations of this bank.

Various other Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the
    banking, insurance and securities regulatory authorities of the
    European countries in which they operate, including, among
    others, the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin) and
    the Bundesbank in Germany, the Autorit  de Contr le
    Prudentiel and the Autorit  des March s Financiers in
    France, Banca d Italia and the Commissione Nazionale per le
    Societ  e la Borsa (CONSOB) in Italy, the Federal Financial
    Markets Service and the Central Bank of the Russian Federation
    in Russia and the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority.
    Certain Goldman Sachs entities are also regulated by the
    European securities, derivatives and commodities exchanges of
    which they are members.

15

Table of Contents   

The investment services that are subject to oversight by the FSA
    and other regulators within the European Union (EU) are
    regulated in accordance with national laws, many of which
    implement EU directives requiring, among other things,
    compliance with certain capital adequacy standards, customer
    protection requirements and market conduct and trade reporting
    rules. These standards, requirements and rules are generally
    implemented in a similar manner, under the same directives,
    throughout the EU.

The EU has adopted risk retention requirements applicable to
     asset-backed 
    security offerings similar to those required under the
    Dodd-Frank Act, as well as enhanced disclosure requirements
    applicable to such offerings.

Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL), our regulated Japanese
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to the capital requirements imposed by Japan s
    Financial Services Agency. As of December 2010, GSJCL was
    in compliance with its capital adequacy requirements. GSJCL is
    also regulated by the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities
    Exchange, the Tokyo Financial Exchange, the Japan Securities
    Dealers Association, the Tokyo Commodity Exchange and the
    Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry in Japan.

Also in Asia, the Securities and Futures Commission in Hong
    Kong, the Monetary Authority of Singapore, the China Securities
    Regulatory Commission, the Korean Financial Supervisory Service,
    the Reserve Bank of India and the Securities and Exchange Board
    of India, among others, regulate various of our subsidiaries and
    also have capital standards and other requirements comparable to
    the rules of the SEC.

Various Goldman Sachs entities are regulated by the banking and
    regulatory authorities in countries in which Goldman Sachs
    operates, including, among others, Brazil and Dubai. In
    addition, certain of our insurance subsidiaries are regulated by
    the FSA and certain are regulated by the Bermuda Monetary
    Authority.

Regulations
    Applicable in and Outside the United States  

The U.S. and
     non-U.S. government 
    agencies, regulatory bodies and self-regulatory organizations,
    as well as state securities commissions and other state
    regulators in the United States, are empowered to conduct
    administrative proceedings that can result in censure, fine, the
    issuance of cease and desist orders, or the suspension or
    expulsion of a
     broker-dealer 
    or its directors, officers or employees. From time to time, our
    subsidiaries have been subject to investigations and
    proceedings, and sanctions have been imposed for infractions of
    various regulations relating to our activities.

The SEC and FINRA have rules governing research analysts,
    including rules imposing restrictions on the interaction between
    equity research analysts and investment banking personnel at
    member securities firms. Various
     non-U.S. jurisdictions 
    have imposed both substantive and disclosure-based requirements
    with respect to research and may impose additional regulations.

Our investment management business is subject to significant
    regulation in numerous jurisdictions around the world relating
    to, among other things, the safeguarding of client assets and
    our management of client funds.

As discussed above, many of our subsidiaries are subject to
    regulatory capital requirements in jurisdictions throughout the
    world. Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulation may hold
    capital to satisfy local tax guidelines, rating agency
    requirements or internal policies, including policies concerning
    the minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based
    upon its underlying risk.

Certain of our businesses are subject to compliance with
    regulations enacted by U.S. federal and state governments,
    the EU or other jurisdictions
     and/or 
    enacted by various regulatory organizations or exchanges
    relating to the privacy of the information of clients, employees
    or others, and any failure to comply with these regulations
    could expose us to liability
     and/or 
    reputational damage.

16

Table of Contents   

Available
    Information  

Our internet address is  www.gs.com  and the investor
    relations section of our web site is located at
     www.gs.com/shareholders . We make available free of charge
    through the investor relations section of our web site, annual
    reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q 
    and current reports on
     Form 8-K 
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the U.S. Securities Exchange
    Act of 1934 (Exchange Act), as well as proxy statements, as soon
    as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such
    material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. Also posted on our web
    site, and available in print upon request of any shareholder to
    our Investor Relations Department, are our certificate of
    incorporation and by-laws, charters for our Audit Committee,
    Risk Committee, Compensation Committee, and Corporate Governance
    and Nominating Committee, our Policy Regarding Director
    Independence Determinations, our Policy on Reporting of Concerns
    Regarding Accounting and Other Matters, our Corporate Governance
    Guidelines and our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics governing
    our directors, officers and employees. Within the time period
    required by the SEC, we will post on our web site any amendment
    to the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and any waiver
    applicable to any executive officer, director or senior
    financial officer (as defined in the Code).

In addition, our web site includes information concerning
    purchases and sales of our equity securities by our executive
    officers and directors, as well as disclosure relating to
    certain
     non-GAAP 
    financial measures (as defined in the SEC s
    Regulation G) that we may make public orally,
    telephonically, by webcast, by broadcast or by similar means
    from time to time.

Our Investor Relations Department can be contacted at The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., 200 West Street, 29th Floor, New
    York, New York 10282, Attn: Investor Relations, telephone:
     212-902-0300, 
     e-mail: 
      gs-investor-relations@gs.com  .

Cautionary
    Statement Pursuant to the U.S. Private Securities
    Litigation Reform Act of 1995  

We have included or incorporated by reference in this
     Form 10-K, 
    and from time to time our management may make, statements that
    may constitute  forward-looking statements  within the
    meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
    statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only
    our

beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature,
    are inherently uncertain and outside our control. These
    statements include statements other than historical information
    or statements of current condition and may relate to our future
    plans and objectives and results, among other things, and may
    also include our belief regarding the effect of changes to the
    capital and leverage rules applicable to bank holding companies,
    the impact of the Dodd-Frank Act on our businesses and
    operations, and various legal proceedings as set forth under
     Legal Proceedings  in Note 30 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of this
     Form 10-K, 
    as well as statements about the objectives and effectiveness of
    our risk management and liquidity policies, statements about
    trends in or growth opportunities for our businesses, statements
    about our future status, activities or reporting under
    U.S. or
     non-U.S. banking 
    and financial regulation, and statements about our investment
    banking transaction backlog.

By identifying these statements for you in this manner, we are
    alerting you to the possibility that our actual results and
    financial condition may differ, possibly materially, from the
    anticipated results and financial condition indicated in these
    forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause
    our actual results and financial condition to differ from those
    indicated in the forward-looking statements include, among
    others, those discussed below and under  Risk Factors 
    in Part I, Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K. 

In the case of statements about our investment banking
    transaction backlog, such statements are subject to the risk
    that the terms of these transactions may be modified or that
    they may not be completed at all; therefore, the net revenues,
    if any, that we actually earn from these transactions may
    differ, possibly materially, from those currently expected.
    Important factors that could result in a modification of the
    terms of a transaction or a transaction not being completed
    include, in the case of underwriting transactions, a decline or
    continued weakness in general economic conditions, outbreak of
    hostilities, volatility in the securities markets generally or
    an adverse development with respect to the issuer of the
    securities and, in the case of financial advisory transactions,
    a decline in the securities markets, an inability to obtain
    adequate financing, an adverse development with respect to a
    party to the transaction or a failure to obtain a required
    regulatory approval. For a discussion of other important factors
    that could adversely affect our investment banking transactions,
    see  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of
    this
     Form 10-K. 

17

Table of Contents   

Item 1A.    

Risk
    Factors  

We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in
    our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit,
    operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. The
    following are some of the more important factors that could
    affect our businesses.

Our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely
    affected by conditions in the global financial markets and
    economic conditions generally.  

Our businesses, by their nature, do not produce predictable
    earnings, and all of our businesses are materially affected by
    conditions in the global financial markets and economic
    conditions generally. In the past several years, these
    conditions have changed suddenly and, for a period of time, very
    negatively. In 2008 and through early 2009, the financial
    services industry and the securities markets generally were
    materially and adversely affected by significant declines in the
    values of nearly all asset classes and by a serious lack of
    liquidity.

Since 2008, governments, regulators and central banks in the
    United States and worldwide have taken numerous steps to
    increase liquidity and to restore investor and public
    confidence. In addition, there are numerous legislative and
    regulatory actions that have been taken to deal with what
    regulators, politicians and others believe to be the root
    causes of the financial crisis, including laws and regulations
    relating to financial institution capital requirements and
    compensation practices, restrictions on the type of activities
    in which financial institutions are permitted to engage, and
    generally increased regulatory scrutiny. In some cases,
    additional taxes have been (or have been proposed to be) imposed
    on certain financial institutions. Many of the regulations that
    are required to implement recently adopted legislation
    (including the Dodd-Frank Act) are still being drafted or are
    not yet in effect; therefore, the exact impact that these
    regulations will have on our businesses, results of operations
    and cash flows is presently unclear.

Business activity across a wide range of industries and regions
    has been greatly reduced and many companies were, and some
    continue to be, in serious difficulty due to reduced consumer
    spending and low levels of liquidity in the credit markets.
    National and local governments are facing difficult financial
    conditions due to significant reductions in tax revenues,
    particularly from corporate and personal income taxes, as well
    as increased outlays for unemployment benefits due to high
    unemployment levels and the cost of stimulus programs.

Declines in asset values, the lack of liquidity, reduced
    volatility, general uncertainty about economic and market
    activities and a lack of consumer, investor and CEO confidence
    have negatively impacted many of our businesses.

Our financial performance is highly dependent on the environment
    in which our businesses operate. A favorable business
    environment is generally characterized by, among other factors,
    high global gross domestic product growth, transparent, liquid
    and efficient capital markets, low inflation, high business and
    investor confidence, stable geopolitical conditions, and strong
    business earnings. Unfavorable or uncertain economic and market
    conditions can be caused by: declines in economic growth,
    business activity or investor or business confidence;
    limitations on the availability or increases in the cost of
    credit and capital; increases in inflation, interest rates,
    exchange rate volatility, default rates or the price of basic
    commodities; outbreaks of hostilities or other geopolitical
    instability; corporate, political or other scandals that reduce
    investor confidence in capital markets; natural disasters or
    pandemics; or a combination of these or other factors.

The business environment continued to improve during 2010,
    although there were several periods of market disruption, but
    there can be no assurance that these conditions will continue in
    the near or long term. If they do not, our results of operations
    may be adversely affected.

18

Table of Contents   

Our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by
    declining asset values. This is particularly true for those
    businesses in which we have net  long  positions,
    receive fees based on the value of assets managed, or receive or
    post collateral.  

Many of our businesses have net  long  positions in
    debt securities, loans, derivatives, mortgages, equities
    (including private equity and real estate) and most other asset
    classes. These include positions we take when we act as a
    principal to facilitate our clients  activities, including
    our exchange-based
     market-making 
    activities, or commit large amounts of capital to maintain
    positions in interest rate and credit products, as well as
    through our currencies, commodities and equities activities.
    Because nearly all of these investing, lending and market-making
    positions are marked-to-market on a daily basis, declines in
    asset values directly and immediately impact our earnings,
    unless we have effectively  hedged  our exposures to
    such declines. In certain circumstances (particularly in the
    case of leveraged loans and private equities or other securities
    that are not freely tradable or lack established and liquid
    trading markets), it may not be possible or economic to hedge
    such exposures and to the extent that we do so the hedge may be
    ineffective or may greatly reduce our ability to profit from
    increases in the values of the assets. Sudden declines and
    significant volatility in the prices of assets may substantially
    curtail or eliminate the trading markets for certain assets,
    which may make it very difficult to sell, hedge or value such
    assets. The inability to sell or effectively hedge assets
    reduces our ability to limit losses in such positions and the
    difficulty in valuing assets may require us to maintain
    additional capital and increase our funding costs.

In our exchange-based
     market-making 
    activities, we are obligated by stock exchange rules to maintain
    an orderly market, including by purchasing shares in a declining
    market. In markets where asset values are declining and in
    volatile markets, this results in losses and an increased need
    for liquidity.

We receive
     asset-based 
    management fees based on the value of our clients 
    portfolios or investment in funds managed by us and, in some
    cases, we also receive incentive fees based on increases in the
    value of such investments. Declines in asset values reduce the
    value of our clients  portfolios or fund assets, which in
    turn reduce the fees we earn for managing such assets.

We post collateral to support our obligations and receive
    collateral to support the obligations of our clients and
    counterparties in connection with our client execution
    businesses. When the value of the assets posted as collateral
    declines, the party posting the collateral may need to provide
    additional collateral or, if possible, reduce its trading
    position. A classic example of such a situation is a
     margin call  in connection with a brokerage account.
    Therefore, declines in the value of asset classes used as
    collateral mean that either the cost of funding positions is
    increased or the size of positions is decreased. If we are the
    party providing collateral, this can increase our costs and
    reduce our profitability and if we are the party receiving
    collateral, this can also reduce our profitability by reducing
    the level of business done with our clients and counterparties.
    In addition, volatile or less liquid markets increase the
    difficulty of valuing assets which can lead to costly and
    time-consuming disputes over asset values and the level of
    required collateral, as well as increased credit risk to the
    recipient of the collateral due to delays in receiving adequate
    collateral.

Our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by
    disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to
    credit and higher costs of obtaining credit.  

Widening credit spreads, as well as significant declines in the
    availability of credit, have in the past adversely affected our
    ability to borrow on a secured and unsecured basis and may do so
    in the future. We fund ourselves on an unsecured basis by
    issuing
     long-term 
    debt, promissory notes and commercial paper, by accepting
    deposits at our bank subsidiaries or by obtaining bank loans or
    lines of credit. We seek to finance many of our assets on a
    secured basis, including by entering into repurchase agreements.
    Any disruptions in the credit markets may make it harder and
    more expensive to obtain funding for our businesses. If our
    available funding is limited or we are forced to fund our
    operations at a higher cost, these conditions may require us to
    curtail our business activities and increase our cost of
    funding, both of which could reduce our profitability,
    particularly in our businesses that involve investing, lending
    and market making.

19

Table of Contents   

Our clients engaging in mergers and acquisitions often rely on
    access to the secured and unsecured credit markets to finance
    their transactions. A lack of available credit or an increased
    cost of credit can adversely affect the size, volume and timing
    of     our     clients 
    merger and     acquisition
     transactions   particularly 
    large transactions   and adversely affect our
    financial advisory and underwriting businesses.

In addition, we may incur significant unrealized gains or losses
    due solely to changes in our credit spreads or those of third
    parties, as these changes may affect the fair value of our
    derivative instruments and the debt securities that we hold or
    issue.

Our
     market-making 
    activities have been and may be affected by changes in the
    levels of market volatility.  

Certain of our
     market-making 
    activities depend on market volatility to provide trading and
    arbitrage opportunities to our clients, and decreases in
    volatility may reduce these opportunities and adversely affect
    the results of these activities. On the other hand, increased
    volatility, while it can increase trading volumes and spreads,
    also increases risk as measured by
     Value-at-Risk 
    (VaR) and may expose us to increased risks in connection with
    our
     market-making 
    activities or cause us to reduce our
     market-making 
    positions in order to avoid increasing our VaR. Limiting the
    size of our
     market-making 
    positions can adversely affect our profitability, even though
    spreads are widening and we may earn more on each trade. In
    periods when volatility is increasing, but asset values are
    declining significantly, it may not be possible to sell assets
    at all or it may only be possible to do so at steep discounts.
    In such circumstances we may be forced to either take on
    additional risk or to incur losses in order to decrease our VaR.
    In addition, increases in volatility increase the level of our
    risk weighted assets and increase our capital requirements, both
    of which in turn increase our funding costs.

Our investment banking, client execution and investment
    management businesses have been adversely affected and may
    continue to be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack
    of confidence among investors and CEOs due to general declines
    in economic activity and other unfavorable economic,
    geopolitical or market conditions.  

Our investment banking business has been and may continue
    to be adversely affected by market conditions. Poor economic
    conditions and other adverse geopolitical conditions can
    adversely affect and have adversely affected investor and CEO
    confidence, resulting in significant
     industry-wide 
    declines in the size and number of underwritings and of
    financial advisory transactions, which could have an adverse
    effect on our revenues and our profit margins. In particular,
    because a significant portion of our investment banking revenues
    is derived from our participation in large transactions, a
    decline in the number of large transactions would adversely
    affect our investment banking business.

In certain circumstances, market uncertainty or general declines
    in market or economic activity may affect our client execution
    businesses by decreasing levels of overall activity or by
    decreasing volatility, but at other times market uncertainty and
    even declining economic activity may result in higher trading
    volumes or higher spreads or both.

Market uncertainty, volatility and adverse economic conditions,
    as well as declines in asset values, may cause our clients to
    transfer their assets out of our funds or other products or
    their brokerage accounts and result in reduced net revenues,
    principally in our investment management business. To the extent
    that clients do not withdraw their funds, they may invest them
    in products that generate less fee income.

20

Table of Contents   

Our investment management business may be affected by the
    poor investment performance of our investment products.  

Poor investment returns in our investment management business,
    due to either general market conditions or underperformance
    (relative to our competitors or to benchmarks) by funds or
    accounts that we manage or investment products that we design or
    sell, affects our ability to retain existing assets and to
    attract new clients or additional assets from existing clients.
    This could affect the management and incentive fees that we earn
    on assets under management or the commissions that we earn for
    selling other investment products, such as structured notes or
    derivatives.

We may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk
    management processes and strategies.  

We seek to monitor and control our risk exposure through a risk
    and control framework encompassing a variety of separate but
    complementary financial, credit, operational, compliance and
    legal reporting systems, internal controls, management review
    processes and other mechanisms. Our risk management process
    seeks to balance our ability to profit from
     market-making, 
    investing or lending positions with our exposure to potential
    losses. While we employ a broad and diversified set of risk
    monitoring and risk mitigation techniques, those techniques and
    the judgments that accompany their application cannot anticipate
    every economic and financial outcome or the specifics and timing
    of such outcomes. Thus, we may, in the course of our activities,
    incur losses. Market conditions in recent years have involved
    unprecedented dislocations and highlight the limitations
    inherent in using historical data to manage risk.

The models that we use to assess and control our risk exposures
    reflect assumptions about the degrees of correlation or lack
    thereof among prices of various asset classes or other
    market indicators. In times of market stress or other unforeseen
    circumstances, such as occurred during 2008 and early 2009,
    previously uncorrelated indicators may become correlated, or
    conversely previously correlated indicators may move in
    different directions. These types of market movements have at
    times limited the effectiveness of our hedging strategies and
    have caused us to incur significant losses, and they may do so
    in the future. These changes in correlation can be exacerbated
    where other market participants are using risk or trading models
    with assumptions or algorithms that are similar to ours. In
    these and other cases, it may be difficult to reduce our risk
    positions due to the activity of other market participants or
    widespread market

dislocations, including circumstances where asset values are
    declining significantly or no market exists for certain assets.

To the extent that we have positions through our
     market-making 
    or origination activities or we make investments directly
    through our investing activities in securities, including
    private equity, that do not have an established liquid trading
    market or are otherwise subject to restrictions on sale or
    hedging, we may not be able to reduce our positions and
    therefore reduce our risk associated with such positions. In
    addition, we invest our own capital in private equity, debt,
    real estate and hedge funds that we manage and limitations on
    our ability to withdraw some or all of our investments in these
    funds, whether for legal, reputational or other reasons, may
    make it more difficult for us to control the risk exposures
    relating to these investments.

For a further discussion of our risk management policies and
    procedures, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Risk Management  in Part II, Item 7 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be
    adversely affected by an inability to access the debt capital
    markets or to sell assets or by a reduction in our credit
    ratings or by an increase in our credit spreads.  

Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity may be
    impaired by an inability to access secured
     and/or 
    unsecured debt markets, an inability to access funds from our
    subsidiaries, an inability to sell assets or redeem our
    investments, or unforeseen outflows of cash or collateral. This
    situation may arise due to circumstances that we may be unable
    to control, such as a general market disruption or an
    operational problem that affects third parties or us, or even by
    the perception among market participants that we, or other
    market participants, are experiencing greater liquidity risk.

The financial instruments that we hold and the contracts to
    which we are a party are complex, as we employ structured
    products to benefit our clients and ourselves, and these complex
    structured products often do not have readily available markets
    to access in times of liquidity stress. Our investing and
    lending activities may lead to situations where the holdings
    from these activities represent a significant portion of
    specific markets, which could restrict liquidity for our
    positions.

21

Table of Contents   

Further, our ability to sell assets may be impaired if other
    market participants are seeking to sell similar assets at the
    same time, as is likely to occur in a liquidity or other market
    crisis. In addition, financial institutions with which we
    interact may exercise
     set-off 
    rights or the right to require additional collateral, including
    in difficult market conditions, which could further impair our
    access to liquidity.

Our credit ratings are important to our liquidity. A reduction
    in our credit ratings could adversely affect our liquidity and
    competitive position, increase our borrowing costs, limit our
    access to the capital markets or trigger our obligations under
    certain provisions in some of our trading and collateralized
    financing contracts. Under these provisions, counterparties
    could be permitted to terminate contracts with Goldman Sachs or
    require us to post additional collateral. Termination of our
    trading and collateralized financing contracts could cause us to
    sustain losses and impair our liquidity by requiring us to
    find other sources of financing or to make significant cash
    payments or securities movements. Certain rating agencies have
    indicated that the
     Dodd-Frank 
    Act could result in the rating agencies reducing their assumed
    level of government support and therefore result in ratings
    downgrades for certain large financial institutions, including
    Goldman Sachs.

Our cost of obtaining
     long-term 
    unsecured funding is directly related to our credit spreads (the
    amount in excess of the interest rate of U.S. Treasury
    securities (or other benchmark securities) of the same
    maturity that we need to pay to our debt investors). Increases
    in our credit spreads can significantly increase our
    cost of this funding. Changes in credit spreads are
    continuous,
     market-driven, 
    and subject at times to unpredictable and highly volatile
    movements. Credit spreads are influenced by market perceptions
    of our creditworthiness. In addition, our credit spreads
    may be influenced by movements in the costs to purchasers
    of credit default swaps referenced to our
     long-term 
    debt. The market for credit default swaps, although very
    large, has proven to be extremely volatile and currently lacks a
    high degree of structure or transparency.

Conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to
    appropriately identify and address conflicts of interest could
    adversely affect our businesses.  

As we have expanded the scope of our businesses and our client
    base, we increasingly must address potential conflicts of
    interest, including situations where our services to a
    particular client or our own investments or other interests
    conflict, or are perceived to conflict, with the interests of
    another client, as well as situations where one or more of our
    businesses have access to material
     non-public 
    information that may not be shared with other businesses within
    the firm and situations where we may be a creditor of an entity
    with which we also have an advisory or other relationship.

In addition, our status as a bank holding company subjects us to
    heightened regulation and increased regulatory scrutiny by the
    Federal Reserve Board with respect to transactions between
    GS Bank USA and entities that are or could be viewed as
    affiliates of ours.

We have extensive procedures and controls that are designed to
    identify and address conflicts of interest, including those
    designed to prevent the improper sharing of information among
    our businesses. However, appropriately identifying and dealing
    with conflicts of interest is complex and difficult, and our
    reputation, which is one of our most important assets, could be
    damaged and the willingness of clients to enter into
    transactions with us may be affected if we fail, or appear to
    fail, to identify, disclose and deal appropriately with
    conflicts of interest. In addition, potential or perceived
    conflicts could give rise to litigation or regulatory
    enforcement actions.

22

Table of Contents   

Group Inc. is a holding company and is dependent for
    liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are
    subject to restrictions.  

Group Inc. is a holding company and, therefore, depends on
    dividends, distributions and other payments from its
    subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments
    on its obligations, including debt obligations. Many of our
    subsidiaries, including our
     broker-dealer, 
    bank and insurance subsidiaries, are subject to laws that
    restrict dividend payments or authorize regulatory bodies to
    block or reduce the flow of funds from those subsidiaries to
    Group Inc. In addition, our
     broker-dealer, 
    bank and insurance subsidiaries are subject to restrictions on
    their ability to lend or transact with affiliates and to minimum
    regulatory capital requirements, as well as restrictions on
    their ability to use funds deposited with them in brokerage or
    bank accounts to fund their businesses. Additional restrictions
    on related-party transactions, increased capital requirements
    and additional limitations on the use of funds on deposit in
    bank or brokerage accounts, as well as lower earnings, can
    reduce the amount of funds available to meet the obligations of
    Group Inc. and even require Group Inc. to provide
    additional funding to such subsidiaries. Restrictions or
    regulatory action of that kind could impede access to funds that
    Group Inc. needs to make payments on its obligations,
    including debt obligations, or dividend payments. In addition,
    Group Inc. s right to participate in a distribution of
    assets upon a subsidiary s liquidation or reorganization is
    subject to the prior claims of the subsidiary s creditors.

Furthermore, Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment
    obligations of certain of its subsidiaries, including
    GS Co., GS Bank USA, GS Bank Europe and Goldman
    Sachs Execution   Clearing, L.P. subject to certain
    exceptions, and has pledged significant assets to GS Bank
    USA to support obligations to GS Bank USA. In addition,
    Group Inc. guarantees many of the obligations of its other
    consolidated subsidiaries on a
     transaction-by-transaction 
    basis, as negotiated with counterparties. These guarantees may
    require Group Inc. to provide substantial funds or assets
    to its subsidiaries or their creditors or counterparties at a
    time when Group Inc. is in need of liquidity to fund its
    own obligations. See  Business   Regulation 
    in Part I, Item 1 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for a further discussion of regulatory restrictions.

Our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be
    adversely affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or
    defaults by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other
    assets or whose securities or obligations we hold.  

We are exposed to the risk that third parties that owe us money,
    securities or other assets will not perform their obligations.
    These parties may default on their obligations to us due to
    bankruptcy, lack of liquidity, operational failure or other
    reasons. A failure of a significant market participant, or even
    concerns about a default by such an institution, could lead to
    significant liquidity problems, losses or defaults by other
    institutions, which in turn could adversely affect us.

We are also subject to the risk that our rights against third
    parties may not be enforceable in all circumstances. In
    addition, deterioration in the credit quality of third parties
    whose securities or obligations we hold could result in losses
     and/or 
    adversely affect our ability to rehypothecate or otherwise use
    those securities or obligations for liquidity purposes. A
    significant downgrade in the credit ratings of our
    counterparties could also have a negative impact on our results.
    While in many cases we are permitted to require additional
    collateral from counterparties that experience financial
    difficulty, disputes may arise as to the amount of collateral we
    are entitled to receive and the value of pledged assets. The
    termination of contracts and the foreclosure on collateral may
    subject us to claims for the improper exercise of our rights.
    Default rates, downgrades and disputes with counterparties as to
    the valuation of collateral increase significantly in times of
    market stress and illiquidity.

As part of our clearing and prime brokerage activities, we
    finance our clients  positions, and we could be held
    responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our clients.
    Although we regularly review credit exposures to specific
    clients and counterparties and to specific industries, countries
    and regions that we believe may present credit concerns, default
    risk may arise from events or circumstances that are difficult
    to detect or foresee.

23

Table of Contents   

Concentration of risk increases the potential for
    significant losses in our
     market-making, 
    underwriting, investing and lending activities.  

Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant
    losses in our
     market-making, 
    underwriting, investing and lending activities. The number and
    size of such transactions may affect our results of operations
    in a given period. Moreover, because of concentration of risk,
    we may suffer losses even when economic and market conditions
    are generally favorable for our competitors. Disruptions in the
    credit markets can make it difficult to hedge these credit
    exposures effectively or economically. In addition, we extend
    large commitments as part of our credit origination activities.
    The Dodd-Frank Act will require issuers of
     asset-backed 
    securities and any person who organizes and initiates an
     asset-backed 
    securities transaction to retain economic exposure to the asset,
    which could significantly increase the cost to us of engaging in
    securitization activities. Our inability to reduce our credit
    risk by selling, syndicating or securitizing these positions,
    including during periods of market stress, could negatively
    affect our results of operations due to a decrease in the fair
    value of the positions, including due to the insolvency or
    bankruptcy of the borrower, as well as the loss of revenues
    associated with selling such securities or loans.

In the ordinary course of business, we may be subject to a
    concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty,
    borrower or issuer, including sovereign issuers, and a failure
    or downgrade of, or default by, such entity could negatively
    impact our businesses, perhaps materially, and the systems by
    which we set limits and monitor the level of our credit exposure
    to individual entities, industries and countries may not
    function as we have anticipated. While our activities expose us
    to many different industries and counterparties, we routinely
    execute a high volume of transactions with counterparties
    engaged in financial services activities, including brokers and
    dealers, commercial banks, clearing houses, exchanges and
    investment funds. This has resulted in significant credit
    concentration with respect to these counterparties. Provisions
    of the Dodd-Frank Act are expected to lead to increased
    centralization of trading activity through particular clearing
    houses, central agents or exchanges, which may increase our
    concentration of risk with respect to these entities.

The financial services industry is highly
    competitive.  

The financial services industry and all of our businesses are
    intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We
    compete on the basis of a number of factors, including
    transaction execution, our products and services, innovation,
    reputation, creditworthiness and price. Over time, there has
    been substantial consolidation and convergence among companies
    in the financial services industry. This trend accelerated over
    recent years as a result of numerous mergers and asset
    acquisitions among industry participants. This trend has also
    hastened the globalization of the securities and other financial
    services markets. As a result, we have had to commit capital to
    support our international operations and to execute large global
    transactions. To the extent we expand into new business areas
    and new geographic regions, we will face competitors with more
    experience and more established relationships with clients,
    regulators and industry participants in the relevant market,
    which could adversely affect our ability to expand. Governments
    and regulators have recently adopted regulations, imposed taxes
    or otherwise put forward various proposals that have or may
    impact our ability to conduct certain of our businesses in a
     cost-effective 
    manner or at all in certain or all jurisdictions, including
    proposals relating to restrictions on the type of activities in
    which financial institutions are permitted to engage. These or
    other similar proposals, which may not apply to all our
    U.S. or
     non-U.S. competitors, 
    could impact our ability to compete effectively.

Pricing and other competitive pressures in our businesses have
    continued to increase, particularly in situations where some of
    our competitors may seek to increase market share by reducing
    prices. For example, in connection with investment banking and
    other assignments, we have experienced pressure to extend and
    price credit at levels that may not always fully compensate us
    for the risks we take.

24

Table of Contents   

We face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us
    to transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties
    and expose us to new asset classes and new markets.  

A number of our recent and planned business initiatives and
    expansions of existing businesses may bring us into contact,
    directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are
    not within our traditional client and counterparty base and
    expose us to new asset classes and new markets. For example, we
    are increasingly transacting business and investing in new
    regions, including a wider range of emerging and growth markets.
    Furthermore, in a number of our businesses, including where we
    make markets, invest and lend, we directly or indirectly own
    interests in, or otherwise become affiliated with the ownership
    and operation of public services, such as airports, toll roads
    and shipping ports, as well as power generation facilities,
    physical commodities and other commodities infrastructure
    components, both within and outside the United States. Recent
    market conditions may lead to an increase in opportunities to
    acquire distressed assets and we may determine opportunistically
    to increase our exposure to these types of assets.

These activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, including
    risks associated with dealing with governmental entities,
    reputational concerns arising from dealing with less
    sophisticated counterparties and investors, greater regulatory
    scrutiny of these activities, increased
     credit-related, 
    sovereign and operational risks, risks arising from accidents or
    acts of terrorism, and reputational concerns with the manner in
    which these assets are being operated or held.

Derivative transactions and delayed settlements may expose
    us to unexpected risk and potential losses.  

We are party to a large number of derivative transactions,
    including credit derivatives. Many of these derivative
    instruments are individually negotiated and
     non-standardized, 
    which can make exiting, transferring or settling positions
    difficult. Many credit derivatives require that we deliver to
    the counterparty the underlying security, loan or other
    obligation in order to receive payment. In a number of cases, we
    do not hold the underlying security, loan or other obligation
    and may not be able to obtain the underlying security, loan or
    other obligation. This could cause us to forfeit the payments
    due to us under these contracts or result in settlement delays
    with the attendant credit and operational risk as well as
    increased costs to the firm. Derivative transactions may also
    involve the risk that they are not authorized or appropriate for
    a counterparty, that documentation has not been properly
    executed or that executed agreements may not be enforceable
    against the counterparty.

Derivative contracts and other transactions, including secondary
    bank loan purchases and sales, entered into with third parties
    are not always confirmed by the counterparties or settled on a
    timely basis. While the transaction remains unconfirmed or
    during any delay in settlement, we are subject to heightened
    credit and operational risk and in the event of a default may
    find it more difficult to enforce our rights. In addition, as
    new and more complex derivative products are created, covering a
    wider array of underlying credit and other instruments, disputes
    about the terms of the underlying contracts could arise, which
    could impair our ability to effectively manage our risk
    exposures from these products and subject us to increased costs.
    The provisions of the Dodd-Frank Act requiring central clearing
    of credit derivatives and other OTC derivatives, or a market
    shift toward standardized derivatives, could reduce the risk
    associated with such transactions, but under certain
    circumstances could also limit our ability to develop
    derivatives that best suit the needs of our clients and
    ourselves and adversely affect our profitability and increase
    our credit exposure to such platform.

25

Table of Contents   

Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable
    to hire and retain qualified employees.  

Our performance is largely dependent on the talents and efforts
    of highly skilled individuals; therefore, our continued ability
    to compete effectively in our businesses, to manage our
    businesses effectively and to expand into new businesses and
    geographic areas depends on our ability to attract new talented
    and diverse employees and to retain and motivate our existing
    employees. Factors that affect our ability to attract and retain
    such employees include our compensation and benefits, and our
    reputation as a successful business with a culture of fairly
    hiring, training and promoting qualified employees.

Competition from within the financial services industry and from
    businesses outside the financial services industry for qualified
    employees has often been intense. This is particularly the case
    in emerging and growth markets, where we are often competing for
    qualified employees with entities that have a significantly
    greater presence or more extensive experience in the region.

As described further in  Business  
    Regulation   Banking Regulation  and
     Regulation   Compensation Practices  in
    Part I, Item 1 of this
     Form 10-K, 
    our compensation practices are subject to review by, and the
    standards of, the Federal Reserve Board. As a large financial
    and banking institution, we may be subject to limitations on
    compensation practices (which may or may not affect our
    competitors) by the Federal Reserve Board, the FSA, the FDIC or
    other regulators worldwide. These limitations, including any
    imposed by or as a result of future legislation or regulation,
    may require us to alter our compensation practices in ways that
    could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain
    talented employees. We may also be required to make additional
    disclosure with respect to the compensation of employees,
    including
     non-executive 
    officers, in a manner that directly or indirectly results in the
    identity of such employees and their compensation being made
    public. Any such additional public disclosure of employee
    compensation may also make it difficult to attract and retain
    talented employees.

Our businesses and those of our clients are subject to
    extensive and pervasive regulation around the world.  

As a participant in the financial services industry and a bank
    holding company, we are subject to extensive regulation in
    jurisdictions around the world. We face the risk of significant
    intervention by regulatory and taxing authorities in all
    jurisdictions in which we conduct our businesses. Among other
    things, as a result of regulators enforcing existing laws and
    regulations, we could be fined, prohibited from engaging in some
    of our business activities, subject to limitations or conditions
    on our business activities or subjected to new or substantially
    higher taxes or other governmental charges in connection with
    the conduct of our business or with respect to our employees.

There is also the risk that new laws or regulations or changes
    in enforcement of existing laws or regulations applicable to our
    businesses or those of our clients, including tax burdens and
    compensation restrictions, could be imposed on a limited subset
    of financial institutions (either based on size, activities,
    geography or other criteria), which may adversely affect our
    ability to compete effectively with other institutions that are
    not affected in the same way.

The impact of such developments could impact our profitability
    in the affected jurisdictions, or even make it uneconomic for us
    to continue to conduct all or certain of our businesses in such
    jurisdictions, or could cause us to incur significant costs
    associated with changing our business practices, restructuring
    our businesses, moving all or certain of our businesses and our
    employees to other locations or complying with applicable
    capital requirements, including liquidating assets or raising
    capital in a manner that adversely increases our funding costs
    or otherwise adversely affects our shareholders and creditors.

For a discussion of the extensive regulation to which our
    businesses are subject, see  Business  
    Regulation  in Part I, Item 1 of this
     Form 10-K. 

26

Table of Contents   

We may be adversely affected by increased governmental and
    regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity.  

Governmental scrutiny from regulators, legislative bodies and
    law enforcement agencies with respect to matters relating to
    compensation, our business practices, our past actions and other
    matters has increased dramatically in the past several years.
    The financial crisis and the current political and public
    sentiment regarding financial institutions has resulted in a
    significant amount of adverse press coverage, as well as
    adverse statements or charges by regulators or other government
    officials. Press coverage and other public statements that
    assert some form of wrongdoing often result in some type of
    investigation by regulators, legislators and law enforcement
    officials or in lawsuits. Responding to these investigations and
    lawsuits, regardless of the ultimate outcome of the proceeding,
    is time consuming and expensive and can divert the time and
    effort of our senior management from our business. Penalties and
    fines sought by regulatory authorities have increased
    substantially over the last several years, and certain
    regulators have been more likely in recent years to commence
    enforcement actions or to advance or support legislation
    targeted at the financial services industry. Adverse publicity,
    governmental scrutiny and legal and enforcement proceedings can
    also have a negative impact on our reputation and on the morale
    and performance of our employees, which could adversely
    affect our businesses and results of operations.

A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or
    those of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our
    businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential
    information, damage our reputation and cause losses.  

Our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process
    and monitor, on a daily basis, a very large number of
    transactions, many of which are highly complex, across numerous
    and diverse markets in many currencies. These transactions, as
    well as the information technology services we provide to
    clients, often must adhere to client-specific guidelines, as
    well as legal and regulatory standards.

As our client base and our geographical reach expands,
    developing and maintaining our operational systems and
    infrastructure becomes increasingly challenging. Our financial,
    accounting, data processing or other operating systems and
    facilities may fail to operate properly or become disabled as a
    result of events

that are wholly or partially beyond our control, such as a spike
    in transaction volume, adversely affecting our ability to
    process these transactions or provide these services. We must
    continuously update these systems to support our operations and
    growth and to respond to changes in regulations and markets.
    This updating entails significant costs and creates risks
    associated with implementing new systems and integrating them
    with existing ones.

In addition, we also face the risk of operational failure,
    termination or capacity constraints of any of the clearing
    agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial
    intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions,
    and as our interconnectivity with our clients grows, we
    increasingly face the risk of operational failure with respect
    to our clients  systems.

In recent years, there has been significant consolidation among
    clearing agents, exchanges and clearing houses and an increasing
    number of derivative transactions are now or in the near future
    will be cleared on exchanges, which has increased our exposure
    to operational failure, termination or capacity constraints of
    the particular financial intermediaries that we use and could
    affect our ability to find adequate and
     cost-effective 
    alternatives in the event of any such failure, termination or
    constraint. Industry consolidation, whether among market
    participants or financial intermediaries, increases the risk of
    operational failure as disparate complex systems need to be
    integrated, often on an accelerated basis.

Furthermore, the interconnectivity of multiple financial
    institutions with central agents, exchanges and clearing houses,
    and the increased centrality of these entities, increases the
    risk that an operational failure at one institution or entity
    may cause an
     industry-wide 
    operational failure that could materially impact our ability to
    conduct business. Any such failure, termination or constraint
    could adversely affect our ability to effect transactions,
    service our clients, manage our exposure to risk or expand our
    businesses or result in financial loss or liability to our
    clients, impairment of our liquidity, disruption of our
    businesses, regulatory intervention or reputational damage.

27

Table of Contents   

Despite the resiliency plans and facilities we have in place,
    our ability to conduct business may be adversely impacted by a
    disruption in the infrastructure that supports our businesses
    and the communities in which we are located. This may include a
    disruption involving electrical, communications, internet,
    transportation or other services used by us or third parties
    with which we conduct business. These disruptions may occur as a
    result of events that affect only our buildings or systems or
    those of such third parties, or as a result of events with a
    broader impact globally, regionally or in the cities where those
    buildings or systems are located.

Nearly all of our employees in our primary locations, including
    the New York metropolitan area, London, Bangalore, Hong Kong,
    Tokyo and Salt Lake City, work in close proximity to one
    another, in one or more buildings. Notwithstanding our efforts
    to maintain business continuity, given that our headquarters and
    the largest concentration of our employees are in the New York
    metropolitan area, depending on the intensity and longevity of
    the event, a catastrophic event impacting our New York
    metropolitan area offices could very negatively affect our
    business. If a disruption occurs in one location and our
    employees in that location are unable to occupy our offices or
    communicate with or travel to other locations, our ability to
    service and interact with our clients may suffer, and we may not
    be able to successfully implement contingency plans that depend
    on communication or travel.

Our operations rely on the secure processing, storage and
    transmission of confidential and other information in our
    computer systems and networks. Although we take protective
    measures and endeavor to modify them as circumstances warrant,
    our computer systems, software and networks may be vulnerable to
    unauthorized access, misuse, computer viruses or other malicious
    code and other events that could have a security impact. If one
    or more of such events occur, this potentially could jeopardize
    our or our clients  or counterparties 
    confidential and other information processed and stored in, and
    transmitted through, our computer systems and networks, or
    otherwise cause interruptions or malfunctions in our, our
    clients , our counterparties  or third parties 
    operations, which could result in significant losses
    or reputational damage. We may be required to expend
    significant additional resources to modify our protective
    measures or to investigate and remediate vulnerabilities or
    other exposures, and we may be subject to litigation and
    financial losses that are either not insured against or not
    fully covered through any insurance maintained by us.

We routinely transmit and receive personal, confidential and
    proprietary information by email and other electronic means. We
    have discussed and worked with clients, vendors, service
    providers, counterparties and other third parties to develop
    secure transmission capabilities, but we do not have, and may be
    unable to put in place, secure capabilities with all of our
    clients, vendors, service providers, counterparties and other
    third parties and we may not be able to ensure that these third
    parties have appropriate controls in place to protect the
    confidentiality of the information. An interception, misuse or
    mishandling of personal, confidential or proprietary information
    being sent to or received from a client, vendor, service
    provider, counterparty or other third party could result in
    legal liability, regulatory action and reputational harm.

Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory
    action against us could have material adverse financial effects
    or cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could
    seriously harm our business prospects.  

We face significant legal risks in our businesses, and the
    volume of claims and amount of damages and penalties claimed in
    litigation and regulatory proceedings against financial
    institutions remain high. See  Legal Proceedings 
    in Part I, Item 3 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of certain legal proceedings in which we are
    involved. Our experience has been that legal claims by customers
    and clients increase in a market downturn and that
    employment-related claims increase in periods when we have
    reduced the total number of employees.

There have been a number of highly publicized cases, involving
    actual or alleged fraud or other misconduct by employees in the
    financial services industry in recent years, and we run the risk
    that employee misconduct could occur. This misconduct has
    included and may include in the future the theft of proprietary
    software. It is not always possible to deter or prevent employee
    misconduct and the precautions we take to prevent and detect
    this activity have not been and may not be effective in all
    cases.

28

Table of Contents   

The growth of electronic trading and the introduction of
    new trading technology may adversely affect our business and may
    increase competition.  

Technology is fundamental to our business and our industry. The
    growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new
    technologies is changing our businesses and presenting us with
    new challenges. Securities, futures and options transactions are
    increasingly occurring electronically, both on our own systems
    and through other alternative trading systems, and it appears
    that the trend toward alternative trading systems will continue
    and probably accelerate. Some of these alternative trading
    systems compete with us, particularly our exchange-based
     market-making 
    activities, and we may experience continued competitive
    pressures in these and other areas. In addition, the increased
    use by our clients of
     low-cost 
    electronic trading systems and direct electronic access to
    trading markets could cause a reduction in commissions and
    spreads. As our clients increasingly use our systems to trade
    directly in the markets, we may incur liabilities as a result of
    their use of our order routing and execution infrastructure. We
    have invested significant resources into the development of
    electronic trading systems and expect to continue to do so, but
    there is no assurance that the revenues generated by these
    systems will yield an adequate return on our investment,
    particularly given the relatively lower commissions arising from
    electronic trades.

Our commodities activities, particularly our power
    generation interests and our physical commodities activities,
    subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic
    events and environmental, reputational and other risks that may
    expose us to significant liabilities and costs.  

We engage in, or invest in entities that engage in, the
    production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of
    numerous commodities, including crude oil, oil products, natural
    gas, electric power, agricultural products, metals (base and
    precious), minerals (including uranium), emission credits, coal,
    freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices.
    These activities subject us to extensive and evolving federal,
    state and local energy, environmental and other governmental
    laws and regulations worldwide, including environmental laws and
    regulations relating to, among others, air quality, water
    quality, waste management, transportation of hazardous
    substances, natural resources, site remediation and health and
    safety. Additionally, rising climate change concerns may lead to
    additional regulation that could increase the operating costs
    and profitability of our investments.

We may incur substantial costs in complying with current or
    future laws and regulations relating to our commodities-related
    activities and investments, particularly electric power
    generation, transportation and storage of physical commodities
    and wholesale sales and trading of electricity and natural gas.
    Compliance with these laws and regulations could require us to
    commit significant capital toward environmental monitoring,
    installation of pollution control equipment, renovation of
    storage facilities or transport vessels, payment of emission
    fees and carbon or other taxes, and application for, and holding
    of, permits and licenses.

Our commodities-related activities are also subject to the risk
    of unforeseen or catastrophic events, many of which are outside
    of our control, including breakdown or failure of power
    generation equipment, transmission lines, transport vessels,
    storage facilities or other equipment or processes or other
    mechanical malfunctions, fires, leaks, spills or release of
    hazardous substances, performance below expected levels of
    output or efficiency, terrorist attacks, natural disasters or
    other hostile or catastrophic events. In addition, we rely on
    third-party suppliers or service providers to perform their
    contractual obligations and any failure on their part, including
    the failure to obtain raw materials at reasonable prices or to
    safely transport or store commodities, could adversely affect
    our activities. In addition, we may not be able to obtain
    insurance to cover some of these risks and the insurance that we
    have may be inadequate to cover our losses.

The occurrence of any of such events may prevent us from
    performing under our agreements with clients, may impair our
    operations or financial results and may result in litigation,
    regulatory action, negative publicity or other reputational harm.

29

Table of Contents   

In conducting our businesses around the world, we are
    subject to political, economic, legal, operational and other
    risks that are inherent in operating in many countries.  

In conducting our businesses and maintaining and supporting our
    global operations, we are subject to risks of possible
    nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital
    controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental
    actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or acts of
    terrorism. In many countries, the laws and regulations
    applicable to the securities and financial services industries
    and many of the transactions in which we are involved are
    uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to
    determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market.
    Any determination by local regulators that we have not acted in
    compliance with the application of local laws in a particular
    market or our failure to develop effective working relationships
    with local regulators could have a significant and negative
    effect not only on our businesses in that market but also on our
    reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk
    that transactions we structure might not be legally enforceable
    in all cases.

Our businesses and operations are increasingly expanding into
    new regions throughout the world, including emerging and growth
    markets, and we expect this trend to continue. Various emerging
    and growth market countries have experienced severe economic and
    financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of
    their currencies, defaults or threatened defaults on sovereign
    debt, capital and currency exchange controls, and low or
    negative growth rates in their economies, as well as military
    activity or acts of terrorism. The possible effects of any of
    these conditions include an adverse impact on our businesses and
    increased volatility in financial markets generally.

While business and other practices throughout the world differ,
    our principal legal entities are subject in their operations
    worldwide to rules and regulations relating to corrupt and
    illegal payments and money laundering, as well as laws relating
    to doing business with certain individuals, groups and
    countries, such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act,
    the USA PATRIOT Act and U.K. Bribery Act. While we have invested
    and continue to invest significant resources in training and in
    compliance monitoring, the geographical diversity of our
    operations, employees, clients and customers, as well as the
    vendors and other third parties that we deal with, greatly
    increases the risk that we may be found in violation of such
    rules or regulations and any such violation could subject us to
    significant penalties or adversely affect our reputation.

We may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or
    catastrophic events, including the emergence of a pandemic,
    terrorist attacks or natural disasters.  

The occurrence of unforeseen or catastrophic events, including
    the emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency
    (or concerns over the possibility of such an emergency),
    terrorist attacks or natural disasters, could create economic
    and financial disruptions, could lead to operational
    difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair
    our ability to manage our businesses, and could expose our
    insurance activities to significant losses.

30

Table of Contents   

Item 1B.    

Unresolved
    Staff Comments  

There are no material unresolved written comments that were
    received from the SEC staff 180 days or more before the end
    of our fiscal year relating to our periodic or current reports
    under the Exchange Act.

Item 2.    

Properties  

Our principal executive offices are located at 200 West
    Street, New York, New York and comprise approximately
    2.1 million gross square feet. The building is located on a
    parcel leased from Battery Park City Authority pursuant to a
    ground lease. Under the lease, Battery Park City Authority holds
    title to all improvements, including the office building,
    subject to Goldman Sachs  right of exclusive possession and
    use until June 2069, the expiration date of the lease.
    Under the terms of the ground lease, we made a lump sum ground
    rent payment in June 2007 of $161 million for rent
    through the term of the lease.

We have offices at 30 Hudson Street in Jersey City,
    New Jersey, which we own and which include approximately
    1.6 million gross square feet of office space, and we own
    over 700,000 square feet of additional commercial space spread
    among four locations in New York and New Jersey. We lease
    approximately 2.1 million rentable square feet in the New
    York Metropolitan Area.

We have additional offices in the U.S. and elsewhere in the
    Americas, which together comprise approximately 3.0 million
    rentable square feet of leased space.

In Europe, the Middle East and Africa, we have offices that
    total approximately 2.1 million rentable square feet. Our
    European headquarters is located in London at Peterborough
    Court, pursuant to a lease expiring in 2026. In total, we lease
    approximately 1.6 million rentable square feet in London
    through various leases, relating to various properties.

In Asia (including India), we have offices that total
    approximately 1.7 million rentable square feet. Our
    headquarters in this region are in Tokyo, at the Roppongi Hills
    Mori Tower, and in Hong Kong, at the Cheung Kong Center. In
    Tokyo, we currently lease approximately 388,000 rentable square
    feet, the majority of which will expire in 2018. In Hong Kong,
    we currently lease approximately 320,000 rentable square feet
    under lease agreements, the majority of which will expire in
    2017.

See  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations  
     Off-Balance-Sheet 
    Arrangements and Contractual Obligations   Contractual
    Obligations  in Part II, Item 7 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of exit costs we may incur.

Item 3.    

Legal
    Proceedings  

We are involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and
    arbitration proceedings concerning matters arising in connection
    with the conduct of our businesses. Many of these
    proceedings are at preliminary stages, and many of these cases
    seek an indeterminate amount of damages. However, we believe,
    based on currently available information, that the results of
    such proceedings, in the aggregate, will not have a material
    adverse effect on our financial condition, but may be material
    to our operating results for any particular period, depending,
    in part, upon the operating results for such period. Given the
    range of litigation and investigations presently under way, our
    litigation expenses can be expected to remain high. See
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
    Condition and Results of Operations   Use of
    Estimates  in Part II, Item 7 of this
     Form 10-K. 
    See Note 30 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for information on certain judicial, regulatory and legal
    proceedings.

31

Table of Contents   

Executive
    Officers of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.  

Set forth below are the name, age, present title, principal
    occupation and certain biographical information as of
    February 1, 2011 for our executive officers. All of
    our executive officers have been appointed by and serve at the
    pleasure of our board of directors.

Lloyd C.
    Blankfein, 56  

Mr. Blankfein has been our Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer since June 2006, and a director since
    April 2003. Previously, he had been our President and Chief
    Operating Officer since January 2004. Prior to that, from
    April 2002 until January 2004, he was a Vice Chairman
    of Goldman Sachs, with management responsibility for Goldman
    Sachs  Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Division
    (FICC) and Equities Division (Equities). Prior to becoming a
    Vice Chairman, he had served as
     co-head  of
    FICC since its formation in 1997. From 1994 to 1997, he headed
    or co-headed the Currency and Commodities Division.
    Mr. Blankfein is not currently on the board of any public
    company other than Goldman Sachs. He is affiliated with certain
     non-profit 
    organizations, including as a member of the Dean s Advisory
    Board at Harvard Law School, the Dean s Council at Harvard
    University and the Advisory Board of the Tsinghua University
    School of Economics and Management, an overseer of the Weill
    Medical College of Cornell University, and a member of the Board
    of Directors of the Partnership for New York City.

Alan M. Cohen,
    60  

Mr. Cohen has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs and our Global Head of Compliance since
    February 2004. From 1991 until January 2004, he was a
    partner in the law firm of O Melveny   Myers LLP.
    He is affiliated with certain
     non-profit 
    organizations, including as a board member of the New York Stem
    Cell Foundation.

Gary D. Cohn,
    50  

Mr. Cohn has been our President and Chief Operating Officer
    (or Co-Chief Operating Officer) and a director since
    June 2006. From December 2003 to June 2006,
    he was the co-head of our global Securities
    businesses, having been the co-head of FICC since
    September 2002. Prior to that, Mr. Cohn served as
     co-chief 
    operating officer of FICC after having been responsible for
    Commodities and a number of other FICC businesses from 1999 to
    2002. He was the head of Commodities from 1996 to 1999.
    Mr. Cohn is not currently on the board of any public
    company other than Goldman Sachs. He is affiliated with certain
     non-profit 
    organizations, including NYU Hospital, NYU Medical School, the
    Harlem Children s Zone and American University.

J. Michael Evans,
    53  

Mr. Evans has been the global head of Growth Markets since
    January 2011, a Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs since
    February 2008 and chairman of Goldman Sachs Asia since
    2004. Prior to becoming a Vice Chairman, he had served as global
    co-head of Goldman Sachs  securities business since 2003.
    Previously, he had been co-head of the Equities Division since
    2001. Mr. Evans is a board member of CASPER (Center for
    Advancement of Standards-based Physical Education Reform). He
    also serves as a trustee of the Bendheim Center for Finance at
    Princeton University.

Gregory K. Palm,
    62  

Mr. Palm has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs since May 1999, and our General Counsel and head or
    co-head of the Legal Department since May 1992.

Michael S.
    Sherwood, 45  

Mr. Sherwood has been a Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs
    since February 2008 and co-chief executive officer of
    Goldman Sachs International since 2005. Prior to becoming a Vice
    Chairman, he had served as global co-head of Goldman Sachs 
    securities business since 2003. Prior to that, he had been head
    of FICC Europe since 2001.

32

Table of Contents   

Esta E. Stecher,
    53  

Ms. Stecher has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs and our General Counsel and co-head of the Legal
    Department since December 2000. From 1994 to 2000, she was
    head of the firm s Tax Department, over which she continues
    to have senior oversight responsibility. She is also a trustee
    of Columbia University.

David A. Viniar,
    55  

Mr. Viniar has been an Executive Vice President of Goldman
    Sachs and our Chief Financial Officer since May 1999. He
    has been the head of Operations, Technology, Finance and
    Services Division since December 2002. He was head of the
    Finance Division and co-head of Credit Risk Management and
    Advisory and Firmwide Risk from December 2001 to
    December 2002. Mr. Viniar was co-head of Operations,
    Finance and Resources from March 1999 to
    December 2001. He was Chief Financial Officer of The
    Goldman Sachs Group, L.P. from March 1999 to May 1999.
    From July 1998 until March 1999, he was Deputy Chief
    Financial Officer and from 1994 until July 1998, he was
    head of Finance, with responsibility for Controllers and
    Treasury. From 1992 to 1994, he was head of Treasury and prior
    to that was in the Structured Finance Department of Investment
    Banking. He also serves on the Board of Trustees of Union
    College.

John S. Weinberg,
    53  

Mr. Weinberg has been a Vice Chairman of Goldman Sachs
    since June 2006. He has been co-head of Goldman Sachs 
    Investment Banking Division since December 2002. From
    January 2002 to December 2002, he was co-head of the
    Investment Banking Division in the Americas. Prior to that, he
    served as co-head of the Investment Banking Services Department
    since 1997. He is affiliated with certain
     non-profit 
    organizations, including as a trustee of New York-Presbyterian
    Hospital and the Brunswick School, and as a member of the Board
    of Directors of The Steppingstone Foundation. Mr. Weinberg
    also serves on the Visiting Committee for Harvard Business
    School.

33

Table of Contents   

PART II  

Item 5.  Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

The principal market on which our common stock is traded is the
    NYSE. Information relating to the high and low sales prices per
    share of our common stock, as reported by the Consolidated Tape
    Association, for each full quarterly period during fiscal 2009
    and 2010 is set forth under the heading  Supplemental
    Financial Information   Common Stock Price Range 
    in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 
    As of February 11, 2011, there were
    12,165 holders of record of our common stock.

During fiscal 2009 and fiscal 2010, dividends of $0.35 per
    common share were declared on April 13, 2009,
    July 13, 2009, October 14, 2009,
    January 19, 2010, April 19, 2010,
    July 19, 2010 and October 18, 2010. The
    holders of our common stock share proportionately on a per share
    basis in all dividends and other distributions on common stock
    declared by the Board of Directors of Group Inc (Board).

The declaration of dividends by Goldman Sachs is subject to the
    discretion of our Board. Our Board will take into account such
    matters as general business conditions, our financial results,
    capital requirements, contractual, legal and regulatory
    restrictions on the payment of dividends by us to our
    shareholders or by our subsidiaries to us, the effect on our
    debt ratings and such other factors as our Board may deem
    relevant. See  Business   Regulation  in
    Part I, Item 1 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of potential regulatory limitations on our
    receipt of funds from our regulated subsidiaries and our payment
    of dividends to shareholders of Group Inc.

The table below sets forth the information with respect to
    purchases made by or on behalf of Group Inc. or any
     affiliated purchaser  (as defined in
     Rule 10b-18(a)(3) 
    under the Exchange Act), of our common stock during the fourth
    quarter of our fiscal year ended December 2010.

1.  
 
         On March 21, 2000, we announced that our Board had
    approved a repurchase program, pursuant to which up to
    15 million shares of our common stock may be repurchased.
    This repurchase program was increased by an aggregate of
    280 million shares by resolutions of our Board adopted on
    June 18, 2001, March 18, 2002,
    November 20, 2002, January 30, 2004,
    January 25, 2005, September 16, 2005,
    September 11, 2006 and December 17, 2007. We
    use our share repurchase program to substantially offset
    increases in share count over time resulting from employee
     share-based 
    compensation and to help maintain the appropriate level of
    common equity.

The repurchase program is effected primarily through regular
     open-market 
    purchases, the amounts and timing of which are determined
    primarily by the firm s issuance of shares resulting from
    employee
     share-based 
    compensation as well as its current and projected capital
    position (i.e., comparisons of our desired level of capital
    to our actual level of capital) but which may also be influenced
    by general market conditions, the prevailing price and trading
    volumes of our common stock. The total remaining authorization
    under the repurchase program was 32,156,376 shares as of
    February 11, 2011; the repurchase program has no set
    expiration or termination date.

Any repurchase of our common stock requires approval by the
    Federal Reserve Board.

Information relating to compensation plans under which our
    equity securities are authorized for issuance is presented in
    Part III, Item 12 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Item 6.    

Selected
    Financial Data  

The Selected Financial Data table is set forth under
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

34

Table of Contents   

Item 7.    

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations  

INDEX  

Page No.  

Introduction 

36

Executive Overview 

37

Business Environment 

38

Critical Accounting Policies 

40

Use of Estimates 

44

Results of Operations 

44

Balance Sheet and Funding Sources 

60

Equity Capital 

66

Off-Balance-Sheet 
    Arrangements and Contractual Obligations 

71

Overview and Structure of Risk Management 

74

Liquidity Risk 

78

Market Risk Management 

84

Credit Risk Management 

89

Operational Risk 

94

Recent Accounting Developments 

95

Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our
    Businesses 

95

35

Table of Contents   

Introduction  

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.) is a leading
    global investment banking, securities and investment management
    firm that provides a wide range of financial services to a
    substantial and diversified client base that includes
    corporations, financial institutions, governments and
     high-net-worth 
    individuals. Founded in 1869, the firm is headquartered in New
    York and maintains offices in all major financial centers around
    the world.

Over the past  year, our Business Standards Committee performed
    an extensive review of our business and delivered
    recommendations designed to ensure that our business standards
    and practices are of the highest quality, that they meet or
    exceed the expectations of our clients, regulators and other
    stakeholders, and that they contribute to overall financial
    stability and economic opportunity. These recommendations have
    been approved by our senior management and the Board of
    Directors of Group Inc. (Board) and implementation has
    already begun. In the fourth quarter of 2010, consistent with
    management s view of the firm s activities and the
    recommendations of our Business Standards Committee, we
    reorganized our three previous business segments into four new
    business segments: Investment Banking, Institutional Client
    Services, Investing   Lending and Investment
    Management. Prior periods are presented on a comparable basis.
    See  Results of Operations  below for further
    information about our business segments.

When we use the terms  Goldman Sachs,   the
    firm,   we,   us  and  our, 
    we mean Group Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its
    consolidated subsidiaries. References to  this
     Form 10-K  
    are to our Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010.

All references to 2010, 2009 and 2008, unless specifically
    stated otherwise, refer to our fiscal years ended, or the dates,
    as the context requires, December 31, 2010,
    December 31, 2009 and November 28, 2008,
    respectively. Any reference to a future year refers to a fiscal
    year ending on

December 31 of that year. All references to
    December 2008, unless specifically stated otherwise, refer
    to our fiscal one month ended, or the date, as the context
    requires, December 26, 2008. Certain reclassifications
    have been made to previously reported amounts to conform to the
    current presentation.

In this discussion and analysis of our financial condition and
    results of operations, we have included information that may
    constitute  forward-looking statements  within the
    meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the U.S. Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking
    statements are not historical facts, but instead represent only
    our beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their
    nature, are inherently uncertain and outside our control. This
    information includes statements other than historical
    information or statements of current condition and may relate to
    our future plans and objectives and results, among other things,
    and may also include statements about the objectives and
    effectiveness of our risk management and liquidity policies,
    statements about trends in or growth opportunities for our
    businesses, statements about our future status, activities or
    reporting under U.S. or
     non-U.S. banking 
    and financial regulation, and statements about our investment
    banking transaction backlog. By identifying these statements for
    you in this manner, we are alerting you to the possibility that
    our actual results and financial condition may differ, possibly
    materially, from the anticipated results and financial condition
    indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors
    that could cause our actual results and financial condition to
    differ from those indicated in these forward-looking statements
    include, among others, those discussed below under  Certain
    Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses  as well as
     Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K 
    and  Cautionary Statement Pursuant to the U.S. Private
    Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995  in Part I,
    Item 1 of this
     Form 10-K. 

36

Table of Contents   

Executive
    Overview  

Our diluted earnings per common share were $13.18 for the year
    ended December 2010, compared with $22.13 for the year
    ended December 2009. Return on average common
    shareholders  equity
    (ROE)  1 

    was 11.5% for 2010, compared with 22.5% for 2009. Excluding the
    impact of the $465 million U.K. bank payroll tax, the
    $550 million SEC settlement and the $305 million
    impairment of our New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) Designated
    Market Maker (DMM) rights, diluted earnings per common
    share were
    $15.22  2 

    and ROE was
    13.1%  2 

    for 2010.

Book value per common share increased by approximately 10% to
    $128.72 and tangible book value per common
    share  3 

    increased by approximately 9% to $118.63 compared with the end
    of 2009. Under Basel 1, our Tier 1 capital
    ratio  4 

    was 16.0% and our Tier 1 common
    ratio  4 

    was 13.3% as of December 2010. Our total assets were
    $911 billion as of December 2010, 7% higher compared
    with the end of 2009.

The firm generated net revenues of $39.16 billion and net
    earnings of $8.35 billion for 2010, despite a challenging
    operating environment. These results reflected significantly
    lower net revenues in Institutional Client Services and slightly
    lower net revenues in Investment Banking compared with 2009.
    These decreases were partially offset by significantly higher
    net revenues in Investing   Lending and higher net
    revenues in Investment Management. The results of each of our
    business segments are discussed below.

Institutional
    Client Services  

The decrease in Institutional Client Services reflected
    significantly lower net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and
    Commodities Client Execution and, to a lesser extent, Equities.
    During 2010, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client
    Execution operated in a challenging environment characterized by
    lower client activity levels, which reflected broad market
    concerns including European sovereign debt risk and uncertainty
    over regulatory reform, as well as tighter bid/offer spreads.
    The decrease in net revenues compared with a particularly strong
    2009 primarily reflected significantly lower results in interest
    rate products, credit products, commodities and, to a lesser
    extent, currencies. These decreases were partially offset by
    higher net revenues in mortgages.

The decline in Equities compared with 2009 primarily reflected
    significantly lower net revenues in equities client execution,
    principally due to significantly lower results in derivatives
    and shares. Commissions and fees were also lower than 2009,
    primarily reflecting lower client activity levels. In addition,
    securities services net revenues were significantly lower
    compared with 2009, primarily reflecting tighter securities
    lending spreads, principally due to the impact of changes in the
    composition of customer balances, partially offset by the impact
    of higher average customer balances. During 2010, although
    equity markets were volatile during the first half of the year,
    equity prices generally improved and volatility levels declined
    in the second half of the year.

1. See  Results of Operations   Financial
    Overview  below for further information about our
    calculation of ROE.

2. We believe that presenting our results excluding the
    impact of the U.K. bank payroll tax, the SEC settlement and the
    NYSE DMM rights impairment is meaningful, as excluding these
    items increases the comparability of
     period-to-period 
    results. See  Results of Operations   Financial
    Overview  below for further information about our
    calculation of diluted earnings per common share and ROE
    excluding the impact of these items.

3. We believe that tangible book value per common share is
    meaningful because it is one of the measures that we and
    investors use to assess capital adequacy. See  Equity
    Capital   Other Capital Metrics  below for
    further information about our calculation of tangible book value
    per common share.

4. See  Equity Capital   Consolidated
    Regulatory Capital Ratios  below for further information
    about our Tier 1 capital ratio and Tier 1 common ratio.

37

Table of Contents   

Investment
    Banking  

The decrease in Investment Banking reflected lower net revenues
    in our Underwriting business, partially offset by higher net
    revenues in Financial Advisory. The decline in Underwriting
    reflected lower net revenues in equity underwriting, principally
    due to a decline in client activity in comparison to 2009, which
    included significant capital-raising activity by financial
    institution clients. Net revenues in debt underwriting were
    essentially unchanged compared with 2009. The increase in
    Financial Advisory primarily reflected an increase in client
    activity.

Investing  
    Lending  

During 2010, an increase in global equity markets and tighter
    credit spreads provided a favorable backdrop for our
    Investing   Lending business. Results in
    Investing   Lending for 2010 primarily reflected a
    gain of $747 million from our investment in the ordinary
    shares of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited
    (ICBC), a net gain of $2.69 billion from other equity
    securities and a net gain of $2.60 billion from debt
    securities and loans.

Investment
    Management  

The increase in Investment Management primarily reflected higher
    incentive fees across our alternative investment products.
    Management and other fees also increased, reflecting favorable
    changes in the mix of assets under management, as well as the
    impact of appreciation in the value of client assets. During
    2010, assets under management decreased 4% to $840 billion,
    primarily reflecting outflows in money market assets, consistent
    with industry trends.

Our business, by its nature, does not produce predictable
    earnings. Our results in any given period can be materially
    affected by conditions in global financial markets, economic
    conditions generally and other factors. For a further discussion
    of the factors that may affect our future operating results, see
     Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our Businesses 
    below as well as  Risk Factors  in Part I,
    Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K. 

Business
    Environment  

Global economic conditions generally improved in 2010, as real
    gross domestic product (GDP) grew in most major economies
    following declines in 2009, and growth in emerging markets was
    strong. However, certain unfavorable conditions emerged during
    the second quarter of 2010 that made the environment more
    challenging for our businesses, including broad market concerns
    over European sovereign debt risk and uncertainty regarding
    financial regulatory reform, sharply higher equity volatility
    levels, lower global equity prices and wider corporate credit
    spreads. During the second half of 2010, some of these
    conditions reversed, as equity volatility levels decreased,
    global equity prices generally recovered and corporate credit
    spreads narrowed. In addition, the U.S. Federal Reserve
    announced quantitative easing measures during the fourth quarter
    of 2010 in order to stimulate economic growth and protect
    against the risk of deflation.
     Industry-wide 
    announced mergers and acquisitions volumes increased, while
     industry-wide 
    debt offerings volumes decreased compared with 2009. A
    significant increase in initial public offerings volumes
    compared with 2009 offset declines in common stock follow-on
    offerings and convertible offerings volumes, as 2009 included
    significant capital-raising activity by financial institutions.
    For a further discussion of how market conditions affect our
    businesses, see  Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our
    Businesses  below as well as  Risk Factors  in
    Part I, Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K. 

Global  

The global economy strengthened during 2010, as real GDP
    increased in most major economies and economic growth in
    emerging markets accelerated. The global recovery largely
    reflected an increase in business investment, following a
    significant decline in 2009. In addition, international trade
    grew strongly in 2010. Unemployment levels generally stabilized,
    although the rate of unemployment remained elevated in some
    economies. During 2010, the U.S. Federal Reserve, the
    European Central Bank and the Bank of England left interest
    rates unchanged, while the Bank of Japan reduced its target
    overnight call rate and the People s Bank of China
    increased its
     one-year 
    benchmark lending rate. The price of crude oil increased
    significantly during 2010. The U.S. dollar strengthened
    against the Euro and the British pound, but weakened against the
    Japanese yen.

38

Table of Contents   

United
    States  

In the United States, real GDP increased by an estimated 2.8% in
    2010, compared with a decline of 2.6% in 2009. Growth was
    primarily supported by improved business investment spending, as
    well as an increase in federal government spending. In addition,
    consumer spending and business and consumer confidence improved
    during the year. However, residential investment remained weak.
    Measures of core inflation decreased during the year, reflecting
    high levels of unemployment and significant excess production
    capacity, which caused downward pressure on wages and prices.
    The U.S. Federal Reserve maintained its federal funds rate
    at a target range of zero to 0.25% during the year. In addition,
    the U.S. Federal Reserve announced quantitative easing
    measures during the fourth quarter of 2010, including its
    intention to purchase significant amounts of U.S. Treasury
    debt. The yield on the
     10-year 
    U.S. Treasury note fell by 55 basis points to 3.30% during
    2010. The NASDAQ Composite Index, the S P 500 Index and the
    Dow Jones Industrial Average ended the year higher by 17%, 13%
    and 11%, respectively.

Europe  

Real GDP in the Eurozone economies increased by an estimated
    1.7% in 2010, compared with a decline of 4.0% in 2009. Growth
    primarily reflected an increase in consumer and government
    expenditure, as well as the rebuilding of inventories. Exports
    and imports increased significantly, although the contribution
    from net trade was not significant. Business investment was weak
    for the year, but showed signs of recovery in the second half of
    the year, and surveys of business and consumer confidence
    improved. However, economic growth in certain Eurozone economies
    continued to be weighed down by fiscal challenges and banking
    sector concerns. In addition, concerns about sovereign debt risk
    in certain Eurozone economies intensified, contributing to
    higher volatility and funding pressures. The European Central
    Bank and certain governments in the Eurozone took a range of
    policy measures to address these issues. Measures of core
    inflation remained low and the European Central Bank maintained
    its main refinancing operations rate at 1.00% during the year.
    In the United Kingdom, real GDP increased by an estimated 1.3%
    for 2010, compared with a decrease of 4.9% in 2009. The Bank of
    England maintained its official bank rate at 0.50% during the
    year.
     Long-term 
    government bond yields in both the Eurozone and the U.K.
    decreased during 2010. The Euro and British pound depreciated by
    7% and 3%, respectively, against the U.S. dollar during
    2010. The DAX

Index and the FTSE 100 Index increased by 16% and 9%,
    respectively, while the Euro Stoxx 50 Index and the CAC 40 Index
    declined by 6% and 3%, respectively, compared with the end of
    2009.

Asia  

In Japan, real GDP increased by an estimated 3.9% in 2010,
    compared with a decrease of 6.3% in 2009. Growth primarily
    reflected a significant increase in exports, as well as an
    increase in consumer spending. Measures of inflation remained
    negative during 2010. The Bank of Japan reduced its target
    overnight call rate from 0.10% to a range of zero to 0.10% and
    the yield on
     10-year 
    Japanese government bonds fell by 17 basis points to 1.13%. The
    Japanese yen appreciated by 13% against the U.S. dollar.
    The Nikkei 225 Index decreased 3% during the year. In China,
    real GDP growth was an estimated 10.3% in 2010, up from 9.2% in
    2009. Economic growth was
     broad-based, 
    with significant increases in exports, retail spending and
    business investment. Measures of inflation increased during
    2010, reflecting continued growth in demand. The People s
    Bank of China raised its
     one-year 
    benchmark lending rate by 50 basis points during the year to
    5.81% and the Chinese yuan appreciated by 3% against the
    U.S. dollar. The Shanghai Composite Index decreased by 14%
    during 2010, partially due to concerns over the effect of
    tighter policy on economic growth. In India, real GDP growth was
    an estimated 8.5% in 2010, up from 7.5% in 2009. Growth
    primarily reflected an increase in domestic demand, partially
    offset by the impact of lower net exports. The rate of wholesale
    inflation increased during the year. The Indian rupee
    appreciated by 3% against the U.S. dollar. Equity markets
    in Hong Kong ended the year higher and equity markets in India
    and South Korea increased significantly during 2010.

Other
    Markets  

In Brazil, real GDP increased by an estimated 7.6% in 2010,
    compared with a decline of 0.6% in 2009. The increase in real
    GDP primarily reflected an increase in domestic demand. The
    Brazilian real strengthened against the U.S. dollar.
    Brazilian equity prices ended the year slightly higher compared
    with the end of 2009. In Russia, real GDP increased by an
    estimated 4.0% in 2010, compared with a decline of 7.9% in 2009.
    Rising oil prices led to a significant improvement in investment
    growth, following a decline in 2009. The Russian ruble was
    essentially unchanged against the U.S. dollar and Russian
    equity prices ended the year significantly higher compared with
    2009.

39

Table of Contents   

Critical
    Accounting Policies  

Fair
    Value  

Fair Value Hierarchy.   Financial instruments
    owned, at fair value and Financial instruments sold, but not yet
    purchased, at fair value (i.e., inventory), as well as
    certain other financial assets and financial liabilities, are
    reflected in our consolidated statements of financial condition
    at fair value
     (i.e., marked-to-market), 
    with related gains or losses generally recognized in our
    consolidated statements of earnings. The use of fair value to
    measure financial instruments is fundamental to our risk
    management practices and is our most critical accounting policy.

The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that
    would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
    liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
    at the measurement date. In determining fair value, the
    hierarchy under U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles (U.S. GAAP) gives (i) the highest priority
    to unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical
    assets or liabilities (level 1 inputs), (ii) the next
    priority to inputs other than level 1 inputs that are
    observable either directly or indirectly (level 2 inputs),
    and (iii) the lowest priority to inputs that cannot be
    observed in market activity (level 3 inputs). Assets and
    liabilities are classified in their entirety based on the lowest
    level of input that is significant to their fair value
    measurement.

The fair values for substantially all of our financial assets
    and financial liabilities, including derivatives, are based on
    observable prices and inputs and are classified in levels 1
    and 2 of the hierarchy. Certain level 2 financial
    instruments may require appropriate discounts
    (i.e., valuation adjustments) for factors such as:

transfer restrictions;

the credit quality of a counterparty or the firm; and

other premiums and discounts that a market participant would
    require to arrive at fair value.

Valuation adjustments are generally based on market evidence.

Instruments categorized within level 3 of the fair value
    hierarchy, which represent approximately 5% of the firm s
    total assets, require one or more significant inputs that are
    not observable. Absent evidence to the contrary, instruments
    classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy are
    initially valued at transaction price, which is considered to be
    the best initial estimate of fair value. Subsequent to the
    transaction date, we use other methodologies to determine fair
    value, which vary based on the type of instrument. Estimating
    the fair value of level 3 financial instruments may require
    judgments to be made. These judgments include:

determining the appropriate valuation methodology
     and/or  model
    for each type of level 3 financial instrument;

determining model inputs based on an evaluation of all relevant
    empirical market data, including prices evidenced by market
    transactions, interest rates, credit spreads, volatilities and
    correlations; and

determining appropriate valuation adjustments related to
    illiquidity or counterparty credit quality.

Regardless of the methodology, valuation inputs and assumptions
    are only changed when corroborated by substantive evidence.

Controls Over Valuation of Financial
    Instruments.   Our control infrastructure is
    independent of the revenue-producing units and is fundamental to
    ensuring that all of our financial instruments are appropriately
    valued at
     market-clearing 
    levels. In particular, our independent price verification
    process is critical to ensuring that financial instruments are
    properly valued.

40

Table of Contents   

Price Verification.   The objective of price
    verification is to have an informed and independent opinion with
    regard to the valuation of financial instruments under review.
    Instruments that have one or more significant inputs which
    cannot be corroborated by external market data are classified
    within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

In situations where there is a question about a valuation, the
    ultimate valuation is determined by senior managers in control
    and support functions that are independent of the
    revenue-producing units (independent control and support
    functions). Price verification strategies utilized by our
    independent control and support functions include:

Trade Comparison.   Analysis of trade data (both
    internal and external where available) is used to determine the
    most relevant pricing inputs and valuations.

External Price Comparison.   Valuations and
    prices are compared to pricing data obtained from third parties
    (e.g., broker or dealers, MarkIt, Bloomberg, IDC, TRACE).
    Data obtained from various sources is compared to ensure
    consistency and validity. When broker or dealer quotations or
     third-party 
    pricing vendors are used for valuation or price verification,
    greater priority is generally given to executable quotations.

Calibration to Market Comparables. 
      Market-based 
    transactions are used to corroborate the valuation of positions
    with similar characteristics, risks and components.

Relative Value
    Analyses.    Market-based 
    transactions are analyzed to determine the similarity, measured
    in terms of risk, liquidity and return, of one instrument
    relative to another, or for a given instrument, of one maturity
    relative to another.

Collateral Analyses.   Margin disputes on
    derivatives are examined and investigated to determine the
    impact, if any, on our valuations.

Execution of trades.   Where appropriate,
    trading desks are instructed to execute trades in order to
    provide evidence of
     market-clearing 
    levels.

Backtesting.   Valuations are corroborated by
    comparison to values realized upon sales.

See Notes 5 through 8 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information about fair value measurements.

Review of Net Revenues.   Independent control
    and support functions ensure adherence to our pricing policy
    through a combination of daily procedures, one of which is the
    process of validating and understanding results by attributing
    and explaining net revenues by the underlying factors. Through
    this process we independently validate net revenues, identify
    and resolve potential fair value or trade booking issues on a
    timely basis and ensure that risks are being properly
    categorized and quantified.

Review of Valuation Models.   Quantitative
    professionals within our Market Risk Management department
    (Market Risk Management) perform an independent model approval
    process. This process incorporates a review of a diverse set of
    model and trade parameters across a broad range of values
    (including extreme
     and/or 
    improbable conditions) in order to critically evaluate:

a model s suitability for valuation and risk management of
    a particular instrument type;

the model s accuracy in reflecting the characteristics of
    the related product and its significant risks;

the suitability and properties of the numerical algorithms
    incorporated in the model;

the model s consistency with models for similar products;
    and

the model s sensitivity to input parameters and assumptions.

New or changed models are reviewed and approved. Models are
    evaluated and re-approved annually to assess the impact of any
    changes in the product or market and any market developments in
    pricing theories.

See  Market Risk Management  and  Credit Risk
    Management  for a further discussion of how we manage the
    risks inherent in our businesses.

41

Table of Contents   

Level 3 Financial Assets at Fair
    Value.   The table below presents financial assets
    measured at fair value and the amount of such assets that are
    classified within level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

Total level 3 assets were $45.38 billion and
    $46.48 billion as of December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively. The decrease in level 3
    assets during the year ended December 2010 primarily
    reflected (i) sales and transfers to level 2 of loans
    and securities backed by commercial real estate; and
    (ii) net

reductions in level 3 financial instruments as a result of
    the consolidations of certain variable interest entities (VIEs).
    This decrease was partially offset by an increase in derivatives
    primarily due to unrealized gains on credit derivatives,
    principally resulting from changes in level 2 inputs.

See Notes 5 through 8 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information about fair value measurements.

1.  
 
         Consists of acquired portfolios of distressed loans, primarily
    backed by commercial and residential real estate.

2.  
 
         Includes certain mezzanine financing, leveraged loans arising
    from capital market transactions and other corporate bank debt.

42

Table of Contents   

Goodwill and
    Identifiable Intangible Assets  

Goodwill.   Goodwill is the cost of acquired
    companies in excess of the fair value of net assets, including
    identifiable intangible assets, at the acquisition date. The
    reorganization of the firm s segments in 2010 resulted in
    the reallocation of assets, including goodwill, and liabilities
    across our reporting units. See Notes 13 and 27 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information on segments.

We test the goodwill in each of our reporting units for
    impairment at least annually, by comparing the estimated fair
    value of each reporting unit with its estimated net book value.
    We derive the fair value based on valuation techniques we
    believe market participants would use (i.e., observable
     price-to-earnings 
    multiples and
     price-to-book 
    multiples). We derive the net book value by estimating the
    amount of shareholders  equity required to support the
    activities of each reporting unit. Estimating the fair value of
    our reporting units requires management to make judgments.
    Critical inputs include (i) projected earnings,
    (ii) estimated
     long-term 
    growth rates and (iii) cost of equity. Our last annual
    impairment test was performed during our 2010 fourth quarter and
    no impairment was identified. See Note 13 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of this
     Form 10-K 
    for the carrying value of our goodwill by operating segment.

Identifiable Intangible Assets.   We amortize
    our identifiable intangible assets over their estimated lives
    or, in the case of insurance contracts, in proportion to
    estimated gross profits or premium revenues. Identifiable
    intangible assets are tested for impairment whenever events or
    changes in circumstances suggest that an asset s or asset
    group s carrying value may not be fully recoverable.

An impairment loss, generally calculated as the difference
    between the estimated fair value and the carrying value of an
    asset or asset group, is recognized if the sum of the estimated
    undiscounted cash flows relating to the asset or asset group is
    less than the corresponding carrying value. See Note 13 to
    the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for the carrying value and estimated remaining lives of our
    identifiable intangible assets by major asset class and the
    carrying value of our identifiable intangible assets by
    operating segment.

A prolonged period of market weakness could adversely impact our
    businesses and impair the value of our identifiable intangible
    assets. In addition, certain events could indicate a potential
    impairment of our identifiable intangible assets, including
    (i) changes in trading volumes or market structure that
    could adversely affect our NYSE DMM business (see discussion
    below), (ii) an adverse action or assessment by a
    regulator, (iii) adverse actual experience on the contracts
    in our variable annuity and life insurance business,
    (iv) decreases in cash receipts from television broadcast
    royalties or (v) decreases in revenues from
    commodity-related customer contracts and relationships.
    Management judgment is required to evaluate whether indications
    of potential impairment have occurred, and to test intangibles
    for impairment if required.

NYSE DMM Rights.   During the fourth quarter of
    2010, as a result of continuing weak operating results in our
    NYSE DMM business, we tested our NYSE DMM rights for impairment
    in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board
    Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 360. Because the
    carrying value of our NYSE DMM rights exceeded the projected
    undiscounted cash flows over the estimated remaining useful life
    of our NYSE DMM rights, we determined that the rights were
    impaired. We recorded an impairment loss of $305 million,
    which was included in our Institutional Client Services segment
    in the fourth quarter of 2010. This impairment loss represented
    the excess of the carrying value of our NYSE DMM rights over
    their estimated fair value. We estimated this fair value, which
    is a level 3 measurement, using a relative value analysis
    which incorporated a comparison to another DMM portfolio that
    was transacted between third parties. As of December 2010,
    the carrying value of our NYSE DMM rights was $76 million.

43

Table of Contents   

Use of
    Estimates  

The use of generally accepted accounting principles requires
    management to make certain estimates and assumptions. In
    addition to the estimates we make in connection with fair value
    measurements and the accounting for goodwill and identifiable
    intangible assets, the use of estimates and assumptions is also
    important in determining provisions for potential losses that
    may arise from litigation and regulatory proceedings and tax
    audits.

We estimate and provide for potential losses that may arise out
    of litigation and regulatory proceedings to the extent that such
    losses are probable and can be reasonably estimated. In
    accounting for income taxes, we estimate and provide for
    potential liabilities that may arise out of tax audits to the
    extent that uncertain tax positions fail to meet the recognition
    standard under ASC 740. See Note 26 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information about accounting for income taxes.

Significant judgment is required in making these estimates and
    our final liabilities may ultimately be materially different.
    Our total estimated liability in respect of litigation and
    regulatory proceedings is determined on a
     case-by-case 
    basis and represents an estimate of probable losses after
    considering, among other factors, the progress of each case or
    proceeding, our experience and the experience of others in
    similar cases or proceedings, and the opinions and views of
    legal counsel. See Note 30 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for information on certain judicial, regulatory and legal
    proceedings.

Results of
    Operations  

The composition of our net revenues has varied over time as
    financial markets and the scope of our operations have changed.
    The composition of net revenues can also vary over the shorter
    term due to fluctuations in U.S. and global economic and
    market conditions. See  Certain Risk Factors That May
    Affect Our Businesses  below and  Risk Factors 
    in Part I, Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K 
    for a further discussion of the impact of economic and market
    conditions on our results of operations.

44

Table of Contents   

Financial
    Overview  

The table below presents an overview of our financial results.

1.   
     
    ROE is computed by dividing net earnings applicable to common
    shareholders by average monthly common shareholders 
    equity. The table below presents our average common
    shareholders  equity.

2.   
     
    We believe that presenting our results excluding the impact of
    the U.K. bank payroll tax, the SEC settlement and the NYSE DMM
    rights impairment is meaningful, as excluding these items
    increases the comparability of
     period-to-period 
    results. The tables below present the calculation of net
    earnings applicable to common shareholders, diluted earnings per
    common share and average common shareholders  equity
    excluding the impact of these amounts.

Year Ended 

in millions, except per share amounts 

December 2010 

Net earnings applicable to common shareholders

$ 

7,713 

Impact of the U.K. bank payroll tax

465 

Pre-tax 
    impact of the SEC settlement

550 

Tax impact of the SEC settlement

(6 

) 

Pre-tax 
    impact of the NYSE DMM rights impairment

305 

Tax impact of the NYSE DMM rights impairment

(118 

) 

Net earnings applicable to common shareholders, excluding the
    impact of the U.K. bank payroll tax, the SEC settlement and the
    NYSE DMM rights impairment

$ 

8,909 

Divided by: average diluted common shares outstanding

585.3 

Diluted earnings per common share, excluding the impact of
    the U.K. bank payroll tax, the SEC settlement and the NYSE DMM
    rights impairment 

$ 

15.22 

Average for the 

Year Ended 

in millions 

December 2010 

Total shareholders  equity

$ 

74,257 

Preferred stock

(6,957 

) 

Common shareholders  equity

67,300 

Impact of the U.K. bank payroll tax

359 

Impact of the SEC settlement

293 

Impact of the NYSE DMM rights impairment

14 

Common shareholders  equity, excluding the impact of the
    U.K. bank payroll tax, the SEC settlement and the NYSE DMM
    rights impairment 

$ 

67,966 

45

Table of Contents   

Net
    Revenues  

2010 versus 2009.   Net revenues were
    $39.16 billion for 2010, 13% lower than 2009, reflecting
    significantly lower net revenues in Institutional Client
    Services and slightly lower net revenues in Investment Banking.
    These decreases were partially offset by significantly higher
    net revenues in Investing   Lending and higher net
    revenues in Investment Management.

Institutional Client Services.   The decrease in
    Institutional Client Services reflected significantly lower net
    revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client
    Execution and, to a lesser extent, Equities. During 2010, Fixed
    Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution operated in a
    challenging environment characterized by lower client activity
    levels, which reflected broad market concerns including European
    sovereign debt risk and uncertainty over regulatory reform, as
    well as tighter bid/offer spreads. The decrease in net revenues
    compared with a particularly strong 2009 primarily reflected
    significantly lower results in interest rate products, credit
    products, commodities and, to a lesser extent, currencies. These
    decreases were partially offset by higher net revenues in
    mortgages, as 2009 included approximately $1 billion of
    losses on commercial
     mortgage-related 
    products.

The decline in Equities compared with 2009 primarily reflected
    significantly lower net revenues in equities client execution,
    principally due to significantly lower results in derivatives
    and shares. Commissions and fees were also lower than 2009,
    primarily reflecting lower client activity levels. In addition,
    securities services net revenues were significantly lower
    compared with 2009, primarily reflecting tighter securities
    lending spreads, principally due to the impact of changes in the
    composition of customer balances, partially offset by the impact
    of higher average customer balances. During 2010, although
    equity markets were volatile during the first half of the year,
    equity prices generally improved and volatility levels declined
    in the second half of the year.

Investment Banking.   The decrease in Investment
    Banking reflected lower net revenues in our Underwriting
    business, partially offset by higher net revenues in Financial
    Advisory. The decline in Underwriting reflected lower net
    revenues in equity underwriting, principally due to a decline in
    client activity in comparison to 2009, which included
    significant capital-raising activity by financial institution
    clients. Net revenues in debt underwriting were essentially
    unchanged compared with 2009. The increase in Financial Advisory
    primarily reflected an increase in client activity.

Investing   Lending.   During 2010, an
    increase in global equity markets and tighter credit spreads
    provided a favorable backdrop for our Investing  
    Lending business. Results in Investing   Lending for
    2010 primarily reflected a gain of $747 million from our
    investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, a net gain of
    $2.69 billion from other equity securities and a net gain
    of $2.60 billion from debt securities and loans. In 2009,
    results in Investing   Lending primarily reflected a
    gain of $1.58 billion from our investment in the ordinary
    shares of ICBC, a net gain of $1.05 billion from debt
    securities and loans, and a net loss of $596 million from
    other equity securities.

Investment Management.   The increase in
    Investment Management primarily reflected higher incentive fees
    across our alternative investment products. Management and other
    fees also increased, reflecting favorable changes in the mix of
    assets under management, as well as the impact of appreciation
    in the value of client assets. During 2010, assets under
    management decreased 4% to $840 billion, primarily
    reflecting outflows in money market assets, consistent with
    industry trends.

46

Table of Contents   

2009 versus 2008.   Net revenues were
    $45.17 billion in 2009, more than double the amount in
    2008, reflecting significantly improved results in
    Investing   Lending, as well as significantly higher
    net revenues in Institutional Client Services. These increases
    were partially offset by lower net revenues in Investment
    Management and Investment Banking.

Investing   Lending.   The increase in
    Investing   Lending primarily reflected net gains from
    debt securities and loans and from our investment in the
    ordinary shares of ICBC, compared with net losses in 2008, as
    well as lower net losses from other equity securities. In 2009,
    results in Investing   Lending primarily reflected a
    gain of $1.58 billion from our investment in the ordinary
    shares of ICBC, a net gain of $1.05 billion from debt
    securities and loans and a net loss of $596 million from
    other equity securities. During 2009, our Investing  
    Lending results reflected a recovery in global credit and equity
    markets following significant weakness during 2008. However,
    continued weakness in commercial real estate markets negatively
    impacted our results during 2009. In 2008, results in
    Investing   Lending primarily reflected a loss of
    $446 million from our investment in the ordinary shares of
    ICBC, a net loss of $6.33 billion from debt securities and
    loans and a net loss of $5.95 billion from other equity
    securities.

Institutional Client Services.   The increase in
    Institutional Client Services reflected a very strong
    performance in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client
    Execution. During 2009, Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities
    Client Execution operated in an environment characterized by
    strong client-driven activity, particularly in more liquid
    products. In addition, asset values generally improved and
    corporate credit spreads tightened significantly for most of the
    year. Net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities
    Client Execution were significantly higher compared with 2008,
    reflecting particularly strong performances in credit products,
    mortgages and interest rate products, which were each
    significantly higher than 2008. Net revenues in commodities were
    also particularly strong and were higher than 2008, while net
    revenues in currencies were strong, but lower than a
    particularly strong 2008. During 2009, mortgages included
    approximately $1 billion of losses on commercial
     mortgage-related 
    products. Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client
    Execution results in 2008 included a loss of approximately
    $3.1 billion (net of hedges) related to
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities. In addition, results in mortgages
    in 2008 included net losses of approximately

$900 million on residential
     mortgage-related 
    products and approximately $600 million on commercial
     mortgage-related 
    products.

Net revenues in Equities for 2009 were lower compared with a
    particularly strong 2008, reflecting significant decreases in
    securities services and commissions and fees. The decrease in
    securities services primarily reflected the impact of lower
    customer balances, reflecting lower hedge fund industry assets
    and reduced leverage. The decrease in commissions and fees
    primarily reflected lower average market levels in Europe and
    Asia, as well as lower transaction volumes compared with 2008.
    These decreases were partially offset by strong results in
    equities client execution, primarily reflecting higher net
    revenues in derivatives and shares. During 2009, Equities
    operated in an environment characterized by a significant
    increase in global equity prices and a significant decline in
    volatility levels.

Investment Management.   The decrease in
    Investment Management primarily reflected the impact of changes
    in the composition of assets managed, principally due to equity
    market depreciation during the fourth quarter of 2008, as well
    as lower incentive fees. During 2009, assets under management
    increased $73 billion to $871 billion, due to
    $76 billion of market appreciation, primarily in fixed
    income and equity assets, partially offset by $3 billion of
    net outflows. Outflows in money market assets were offset by
    inflows in fixed income assets.

Investment Banking.   The decrease in Investment
    Banking reflected significantly lower net revenues in Financial
    Advisory, partially offset by higher net revenues in our
    Underwriting business. The decrease in Financial Advisory
    reflected a decline in
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions. The increase in Underwriting
    reflected higher net revenues in equity underwriting, primarily
    reflecting an increase in
     industry-wide 
    equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings, including significant capital-raising activity by
    financial institution clients during 2009. Net revenues in debt
    underwriting were lower than 2008, primarily reflecting
    significantly lower net revenues from leveraged finance
    activity, partially offset by significantly higher net revenues
    from
     investment-grade 
    and municipal activity.

47

Table of Contents   

One Month Ended December 2008.   Net
    revenues were $183 million for the month of
    December 2008. These results reflected a continuation of
    the difficult operating environment experienced during our
    fiscal fourth quarter of 2008, particularly across global equity
    and credit markets.

Investing  
    Lending.     Investing   Lending
    recorded negative net revenues of $1.63 billion for the
    month of December 2008. During the month of December,
    continued weakness in global equity and credit markets
    negatively impacted results in our Investing   Lending
    business. Results for December 2008 primarily reflected net
    losses of $1.08 billion from equity securities (excluding
    ICBC) and $856 million from debt securities and loans,
    partially offset by a gain of $228 million from our
    investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC.

Institutional Client Services.   Net revenues in
    Institutional Client Services were $1.33 billion for the
    month of December 2008. During the month of December,
    market opportunities were favorable for certain of our Fixed
    Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution product areas,
    as interest rate products, commodities and currencies each
    produced strong results. However, the environment for Fixed
    Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution also reflected
    continued weakness in the broader credit markets, as results in
    credit products included a loss of approximately $1 billion
    (net of hedges) related to
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities, primarily reflecting a writedown
    of approximately $850 million related to the bridge and
    bank loan facilities held in LyondellBasell Finance Company. In
    addition, results in mortgages included a loss of approximately
    $400 million on commercial
     mortgage-related 
    products.

Results in Equities reflected lower commission volumes, as well
    as lower client execution net revenues from derivatives compared
    with average monthly levels in 2008. Net revenues in securities
    services were also lower compared with average monthly levels in
    2008, reflecting a decline in total average customer balances,
    partially offset by the impact of favorable changes in the
    composition of securities lending balances. During the month of
    December, Equities operated in an environment characterized by
    continued weakness in global equity markets and continued high
    levels of volatility.

Investment Banking.   Net revenues in Investment
    Banking were $138 million for the month of
    December 2008 and reflected very low levels of activity in
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions, as well as continued
    challenging market conditions across equity and leveraged
    finance markets, which adversely affected our Underwriting
    business.

Investment Management.   Net revenues in
    Investment Management were $343 million for the month of
    December 2008. During the calendar month of December,
    assets under management increased $19 billion to
    $798 billion, due to $13 billion of market
    appreciation, primarily in fixed income and equity assets, and
    $6 billion of net inflows. Net inflows reflected inflows in
    money market assets, partially offset by outflows in fixed
    income, equity and alternative investment assets.

Net Interest
    Income  

2010 versus 2009.   Net revenues for 2010
    included net interest income of $5.50 billion, 26% lower
    than 2009. The decrease compared with 2009 was primarily due to
    lower average fixed income assets, most notably
    U.S. federal agency obligations, higher interest expense
    related to our
     long-term 
    borrowings and tighter securities lending spreads.

2009 versus 2008.   Net revenues for 2009
    included net interest income of $7.41 billion, 73% higher
    than 2008. The increase compared with 2008 was primarily due to
    lower interest expense on our
     long-term 
    and
     short-term 
    borrowings, partially offset by tighter spreads on
    collateralized financing activity, as well as lower average
    customer margin lending balances and financial instruments
    owned, at fair value.

One Month Ended December 2008.   Net
    revenues included net interest income of $685 million for
    the month of December 2008. The increase compared with
    average monthly net interest income in 2008 was primarily due to
    higher average fixed income assets, most notably
    U.S. federal agency obligations.

Operating
    Expenses  

Our operating expenses are primarily influenced by compensation,
    headcount and levels of business activity. Compensation and
    benefits includes salaries, discretionary compensation,
    amortization of equity awards and other items such as benefits.
    Discretionary compensation is significantly impacted by, among
    other factors, the level of net revenues, prevailing labor
    markets, business mix, the structure of our
     share-based 
    compensation programs and the external environment.

48

Table of Contents   

The table below presents our operating expenses and total staff.

1.  
 
         Includes employees, consultants and temporary staff.

2.  
 
         Compensation and benefits and
     non-compensation 
    expenses related to consolidated entities held for investment
    purposes are included in their respective line items in the
    consolidated statements of earnings. Consolidated entities held
    for investment purposes are entities that are held strictly for
    capital appreciation, have a defined exit strategy and are
    engaged in activities that are not closely related to our
    principal businesses.

2010 versus 2009.   Operating expenses were
    $26.27 billion for 2010, 4% higher than 2009. Compensation
    and benefits expenses were $15.38 billion for 2010, a 5%
    decline compared with $16.19 billion for 2009, due to lower
    net revenues. The ratio of compensation and benefits to net
    revenues for 2010 was
    39.3%  1 

    (which excludes the impact of the $465 million U.K. bank
    payroll tax), compared with 35.8% for 2009. Total staff
    increased 10% during 2010. Total staff including consolidated
    entities held for investment purposes increased 7% during 2010.

During 2010, the United Kingdom enacted legislation that imposed
    a
     non-deductible 
    50% tax on certain financial institutions in respect of
    discretionary bonuses in excess of  25,000 awarded under
    arrangements made between December 9, 2009 and
    April 5, 2010 to  relevant banking
    employees.  Our operating expenses for 2010 included
    $465 million related to this tax.

1.   
     
    We believe that presenting our ratio of compensation and
    benefits to net revenues excluding the impact of the U.K. bank
    payroll tax is meaningful, as excluding this item increases the
    comparability of
     period-to-period 
    results.

Year Ended 

$ in millions 

December 2010 

Compensation and benefits (which excludes the impact of the
    $465 million U.K. bank payroll tax)

$ 

15,376 

Ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues

39.3% 

Compensation and benefits, including the impact of the
    $465 million U.K. bank payroll tax

$ 

15,841 

Ratio of compensation and benefits to net revenues, including
    the impact of the $465 million U.K. bank payroll tax

40.5% 

49

Table of Contents   

Non-compensation 
    expenses were $10.43 billion for 2010, 14% higher than
    2009. This increase was primarily attributable to the impact of
    net provisions for litigation and regulatory proceedings of
    $682 million, including $550 million related to the
    SEC settlement (see Note 30 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information), and an impairment of our NYSE DMM
    rights of $305 million, each during 2010. The remainder of
    the increase compared with 2009 generally reflected higher
    professional fees, market development expenses and occupancy
    expenses. These increases were partially offset by the impact of
    significantly higher real estate impairment charges during 2009
    related to our consolidated entities held for investment
    purposes, as well as higher charitable contributions during
    2009. The real estate impairment charges, which were measured
    based on discounted cash flow analyses, are included in our
    Investing   Lending segment and reflected weakness in
    the commercial real estate markets. Charitable contributions
    were approximately $420 million during 2010, primarily
    including $25 million to The Goldman Sachs Foundation and
    $320 million to Goldman Sachs Gives, our
     donor-advised 
    fund. Compensation was reduced to fund the charitable
    contribution to Goldman Sachs Gives. The firm asks its
    participating managing directors to make recommendations
    regarding potential charitable recipients for this contribution.

2009 versus 2008.   Operating expenses were
    $25.34 billion for 2009, 27% higher than 2008. Compensation
    and benefits expenses of $16.19 billion were higher
    compared with 2008, due to higher net revenues. Our ratio of
    compensation and benefits to net revenues for 2009 was 35.8%,
    down from 48.0% (excluding severance costs of approximately
    $275 million in the fourth quarter of 2008) for 2008.
    Total staff decreased 2% during 2009. Total staff including
    consolidated entities held for investment purposes decreased 5%
    during 2009.

Non-compensation 
    expenses were $9.15 billion for 2009, 2% higher than 2008.
    The increase compared with 2008 reflected the impact of
    charitable contributions of approximately $850 million
    during 2009, primarily including $310 million to The
    Goldman Sachs Foundation and $500 million to Goldman Sachs
    Gives. Compensation was reduced to fund the charitable
    contribution to Goldman Sachs Gives. The firm asks its
    participating managing directors to make recommendations
    regarding potential charitable recipients for this contribution.
    Depreciation and amortization expenses also increased compared
    with 2008 and included real estate impairment charges of
    approximately $600 million related to consolidated entities
    held for investment purposes during 2009. The real estate
    impairment charges, which were measured based on discounted cash
    flow analyses, are included in our Investing   Lending
    segment and reflected weakness in the commercial real estate
    markets, particularly in Asia. These increases were partially
    offset by the impact of lower brokerage, clearing, exchange and
    distribution fees, principally reflecting lower transaction
    volumes in Equities, and the impact of reduced staff levels and
    expense reduction initiatives during 2009.

One Month Ended December 2008.   Operating
    expenses were $1.44 billion for the month of
    December 2008. Compensation and benefits expenses were
    $744 million. No discretionary compensation was accrued for
    the month of December. Total staff decreased 3% compared with
    the end of fiscal year 2008. Total staff including consolidated
    entities held for investment purposes decreased 3% compared with
    the end of fiscal year 2008.

Non-compensation 
    expenses of $697 million for the month of
    December 2008 were generally lower than average monthly
    levels in 2008, primarily reflecting lower levels of business
    activity. Total
     non-compensation 
    expenses included $68 million of net provisions for a
    number of litigation and regulatory proceedings.

50

Table of Contents   

Provision for
    Taxes  

The effective income tax rate for 2010, excluding the impact of
    the $465 million U.K. bank payroll tax and the
    $550 million SEC settlement, substantially all of which is
     non-deductible, 
    was
    32.7%  1 ,

    essentially unchanged from 2009. Including the impact of these
    amounts, the effective income tax rate was 35.2% for 2010.

The effective income tax rate for 2009 was 32.5%, compared with
    approximately 1% for 2008. The increase in the effective income
    tax rate for 2009 compared with 2008 was primarily due to
    changes in the geographic earnings mix and a decrease in
    permanent benefits as a percentage of higher earnings. The
    effective income tax rate for 2009 represented a return to a
    geographic earnings mix that is more in line with our historic
    earnings mix. During 2008, we incurred losses in various
    U.S. and

non-U.S. entities 
    whose income/(losses) are subject to tax in the U.S. We
    also had profitable operations in certain
     non-U.S. entities 
    that are taxed at their applicable local tax rates, which are
    generally lower than the U.S. rate.

The effective income tax rate for the month of
    December 2008 was 38.0%.

Effective January 1, 2010, the rules related to the
    deferral of U.S. tax on certain
     non-repatriated 
    active financing income expired. During December 2010, the
    rules were extended retroactively through
    December 31, 2011. If these rules are not extended
    beyond December 2011, the expiration may materially
    increase our effective income tax rate beginning in 2012.

1.   
     
    We believe that presenting our effective income tax rate
    excluding the impact of the U.K. bank payroll tax and the SEC
    settlement, substantially all of which is
     non-deductible, 
    is meaningful, as excluding these items increases the
    comparability of
     period-to-period 
    results. The table below presents the calculation of the
    effective income tax rate excluding the impact of these amounts.

51

Table of Contents   

Segment Operating
    Results  

The table below presents the net revenues, operating expenses
    and  pre-tax 
    earnings/(loss) of our segments.

Net revenues in our segments include allocations of interest
    income and interest expense to specific securities, commodities
    and other positions in relation to the cash generated by, or
    funding requirements of, such underlying positions. See
    Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information about our business segments.

The cost drivers of Goldman Sachs taken as a
     whole   compensation, 
    headcount and levels of business activity   are
    broadly similar in each of our business segments. Compensation
    and benefits expenses within our segments reflect, among other
    factors, the overall performance of Goldman Sachs as well as the
    performance of individual businesses. Consequently,
     pre-tax 
    margins in one segment of our business may be significantly
    affected by the performance of our other business segments. A
    discussion of segment operating results follows.

52

Table of Contents   

Investment
    Banking  

Our Investment Banking segment is comprised of:

Financial Advisory.   Includes advisory
    assignments with respect to mergers and acquisitions,
    divestitures, corporate defense activities, risk management,
    restructurings and
     spin-offs. 

Underwriting.   Includes public offerings and
    private placements of a wide range of securities, loans and
    other financial instruments, and derivative transactions
    directly related to these client underwriting activities.

The table below presents the operating results of our Investment
    Banking segment.

The table below presents our financial advisory and underwriting
    transaction
    volumes.  1 

1.  
 
         Source: Thomson Reuters. Announced and completed mergers and
    acquisitions volumes are based on full credit to each of the
    advisors in a transaction. Equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings and debt offerings are based on full credit for single
    book managers and equal credit for joint book managers.
    Transaction volumes may not be indicative of net revenues in a
    given period. In addition, transaction volumes for prior periods
    may vary from amounts previously reported due to the subsequent
    withdrawal or a change in the value of a transaction.

2.  
 
         Includes Rule 144A and public common stock offerings,
    convertible offerings and rights offerings.

3.  
 
         Includes
     non-convertible 
    preferred stock,
     mortgage-backed 
    securities,
     asset-backed 
    securities and taxable municipal debt. Includes publicly
    registered and Rule 144A issues. Excludes leveraged loans.

2010 versus 2009 .  Net revenues in Investment
    Banking were $4.81 billion for 2010, 3% lower than 2009.

Net revenues in Financial Advisory were $2.06 billion, 9%
    higher than 2009, primarily reflecting an increase in client
    activity. Net revenues in our Underwriting business were
    $2.75 billion, 11% lower than 2009, reflecting lower net
    revenues in equity underwriting, principally due to a decline in
    client activity in comparison to 2009, which included
    significant capital-raising activity by financial institution
    clients. Net revenues in debt underwriting were essentially
    unchanged compared with 2009.

Our investment banking transaction backlog decreased compared
    with the end of 2009. Our investment banking transaction backlog
    represents an estimate of our future net revenues from
    investment banking transactions where we believe that future
    revenue realization is more likely than not. The decrease
    compared with the end of 2009 reflected a decline in estimated
    net revenues from potential debt and equity underwriting
    transactions, primarily related to client mandates to underwrite
    leveraged finance transactions and common stock offerings. This
    decrease was partially offset by an increase in estimated net
    revenues from potential advisory transactions.

Operating expenses were $3.51 billion for 2010, essentially
    unchanged from 2009.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings were $1.30 billion in 2010, 14% lower than 2009.

53

Table of Contents   

2009 versus 2008 .  Net revenues in Investment
    Banking were $4.98 billion for 2009, 9% lower than 2008.

Net revenues in Financial Advisory were $1.90 billion for
    2009, 29% lower than 2008, reflecting a decline in
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions. Net revenues in our
    Underwriting business were $3.09 billion, 11% higher than
    2008, due to higher net revenues in equity underwriting,
    primarily reflecting an increase in
     industry-wide 
    equity and
     equity-related 
    offerings, including significant
     capital-raising 
    activity by financial institution clients during 2009. Net
    revenues in debt underwriting were lower than 2008, primarily
    reflecting significantly lower net revenues from leveraged
    finance activity, partially offset by significantly higher net
    revenues from
     investment-grade 
    and municipal activity.

Our investment banking transaction backlog increased
    significantly during the twelve months ended December 2009.
    The increase was primarily due to potential equity and debt
    underwriting transactions from client mandates to underwrite
    initial public offerings and, to a lesser extent, leveraged
    finance transactions, principally due to increased levels of
    client activity. The advisory backlog also increased, but was
    not a material contributor to the change.

Operating expenses were $3.48 billion for 2009, 7% higher
    than 2008, due to increased compensation and benefits expenses.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings were $1.50 billion in 2009, 31% lower than 2008.

One Month Ended December 2008.   Net
    revenues in Investment Banking were $138 million for the
    month of December 2008. Net revenues in Financial Advisory
    were $73 million, reflecting very low levels of
     industry-wide 
    completed mergers and acquisitions activity. Net revenues in our
    Underwriting business were $65 million, reflecting
    continued challenging market conditions across equity and
    leveraged finance markets.

Our investment banking transaction backlog decreased during the
    one month ended December 2008. The decrease in backlog was
    primarily due to a decline in potential advisory transactions,
    principally due to a decline in client activity.

Operating expenses were $170 million for the month of
    December 2008.
     Pre-tax  loss
    was $32 million for the month of December 2008.

Institutional
    Client Services  

Our Institutional Client Services segment is comprised of:

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client
    Execution.   Includes client execution activities
    related to making markets in interest rate products, credit
    products, mortgages, currencies and commodities.

Equities.   Includes client execution activities
    related to making markets in equity products, as well as
    commissions and fees from executing and clearing institutional
    client transactions on major stock, options and futures
    exchanges worldwide. Equities also includes our securities
    services business, which provides financing, securities lending
    and other prime brokerage services to institutional clients,
    including hedge funds, mutual funds, pension funds and
    foundations, and generates revenues primarily in the form of
    interest rate spreads or fees.

The table below presents the operating results of our
    Institutional Client Services segment.

54

Table of Contents   

2010 versus 2009.   Net revenues in
    Institutional Client Services were $21.80 billion for 2010,
    33% lower than 2009.

Net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client
    Execution were $13.71 billion for 2010, 37% lower than a
    particularly strong 2009. During 2010, Fixed Income, Currency
    and Commodities Client Execution operated in a challenging
    environment characterized by lower client activity levels, which
    reflected broad market concerns including European sovereign
    debt risk and uncertainty over regulatory reform, as well as
    tighter bid/offer spreads. The decrease in net revenues compared
    with 2009 primarily reflected significantly lower results in
    interest rate products, credit products, commodities and, to a
    lesser extent, currencies. These decreases were partially offset
    by higher net revenues in mortgages, as 2009 included
    approximately $1 billion of losses on commercial
     mortgage-related 
    products.

Certain unfavorable conditions emerged during the second quarter
    of 2010 that made the environment more challenging for our
    businesses, resulting in lower client activity levels. These
    conditions included broad market concerns, such as European
    sovereign debt risk and uncertainty regarding financial
    regulatory reform, sharply higher equity volatility levels,
    lower global equity prices and wider corporate credit spreads.
    In addition, a more competitive environment drove tighter
    bid/offer spreads. During the second half of 2010, some of these
    conditions reversed as equity volatility levels decreased,
    global equity prices recovered and corporate credit spreads
    narrowed. However, lower client activity levels, reflecting
    broad market concerns, including European sovereign debt risk
    and uncertainty over regulatory reform, continued to negatively
    impact our results. If these concerns were to continue over the
    long term, net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and
    Commodities Client Execution would likely continue to be
    negatively impacted.

Net revenues in Equities were $8.09 billion for 2010, 25%
    lower than 2009, primarily reflecting significantly lower net
    revenues in equities client execution, principally due to
    significantly lower results in derivatives and shares.
    Commissions and fees were also lower than 2009, primarily
    reflecting lower client activity levels. In addition, securities
    services net revenues were significantly lower compared with
    2009, primarily reflecting tighter securities lending spreads,
    principally due to the impact of changes in the composition of
    customer balances, partially offset by the impact of higher
    average customer balances. During 2010, although equity markets
    were volatile during the first half of the year, equity prices
    generally improved and volatility levels declined in the second
    half of the year.

Operating expenses were $14.29 billion for 2010, 4% higher
    than 2009, due to the impact of the U.K. bank payroll tax, as
    well as an impairment of our NYSE DMM rights of
    $305 million. These increases were partially offset by
    lower compensation and benefits expenses, resulting from lower
    levels of discretionary compensation.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings were $7.51 billion in 2010, 61% lower than 2009.

2009 versus 2008 .  Net revenues in
    Institutional Client Services were $32.72 billion for 2009,
    46% higher compared with 2008.

Net revenues in Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client
    Execution were $21.88 billion for 2009, significantly
    higher compared with 2008. During 2009, Fixed Income, Currency
    and Commodities Client Execution operated in an environment
    characterized by strong client-driven activity, particularly in
    more liquid products. In addition, asset values generally
    improved and corporate credit spreads tightened significantly
    for most of the year. The increase in net revenues compared with
    2008 reflected particularly strong performances in credit
    products, mortgages and interest rate products, which were each
    significantly higher than 2008. Net revenues in commodities were
    also particularly strong and were higher than 2008, while net
    revenues in currencies were strong, but lower than a
    particularly strong 2008. During 2009, mortgages included
    approximately $1 billion of losses on commercial
     mortgage-related 
    products. Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client
    Execution results in 2008 included a loss of approximately
    $3.1 billion (net of hedges) related to
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities. In addition, results in mortgages
    in 2008 included net losses of approximately $900 million
    on residential
     mortgage-related 
    products and approximately $600 million on commercial
     mortgage-related 
    products.

Net revenues in Equities were $10.84 billion for 2009, 17%
    lower than a particularly strong 2008, reflecting significant
    decreases in securities services and commissions and fees. The
    decrease in securities services primarily reflected the impact
    of lower customer balances, reflecting lower hedge fund industry
    assets and reduced leverage. The decrease in commissions and
    fees primarily reflected lower average market levels in Europe
    and Asia, as well as lower transaction volumes compared with
    2008. These decreases were partially offset by strong results in
    equities client execution, primarily reflecting higher net
    revenues in derivatives and shares. During 2009, Equities
    operated in an environment characterized by a significant
    increase in global equity prices and a significant decline in
    volatility levels.

55

Table of Contents   

Operating expenses were $13.69 billion for 2009, 33% higher
    than 2008, due to increased compensation and benefits expenses,
    resulting from higher net revenues. This increase was partially
    offset by lower brokerage, clearing, exchange and distribution
    fees, principally reflecting lower transaction volumes in
    Equities.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings were $19.03 billion in 2009, 58% higher than 2008.

One Month Ended
    December 2008.   Institutional Client Services
    net revenues were $1.33 billion for the month of
    December 2008.

Fixed Income, Currency and Commodities Client Execution recorded
    net revenues of $446 million for the month of
    December 2008. During the month of December, market
    opportunities were favorable for certain of our Fixed Income,
    Currency and Commodities Client Execution product areas, as
    interest rate products, commodities and currencies each produced
    strong results. However, the environment for Fixed Income,
    Currency and Commodities Client Execution also reflected
    continued weakness in the broader credit markets, as results in
    credit products included a loss of approximately $1 billion
    (net of hedges) related to
     non-investment-grade 
    credit origination activities, primarily reflecting a writedown
    of approximately $850 million related to the bridge and
    bank loan facilities held in LyondellBasell Finance Company. In
    addition, results in mortgages included a loss of approximately
    $400 million on commercial
     mortgage-related 
    products.

Net revenues in Equities were $886 million for the month of
    December 2008. These results reflected lower commission
    volumes, as well as lower client execution net revenues from
    derivatives compared with average monthly levels in 2008. Net
    revenues in securities services were also lower compared with
    average monthly levels in 2008, reflecting a decline in total
    average customer balances, partially offset by the impact of
    favorable changes in the composition of securities lending
    balances. During the month of December, Equities operated in an
    environment characterized by continued weakness in global equity
    markets and continued high levels of volatility.

Operating expenses were $736 million for the month of
    December 2008.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings were $596 million for the month of
    December 2008.

Investing  
    Lending  

Investing   Lending includes our investing activities
    and the origination of loans to provide financing to clients.
    These investments and loans are typically longer-term in nature.
    We make investments, directly and indirectly through funds that
    we manage, in debt securities, loans, public and private equity
    securities, real estate, consolidated investment entities and
    power generation facilities.

The table below presents the operating results of our
    Investing   Lending segment.

1.   
     
    Primarily includes results related to our consolidated entities
    held for investment purposes.

2010 versus 2009 .  Investing  
    Lending recorded net revenues of $7.54 billion for 2010.
    During 2010, an increase in global equity markets and tighter
    credit spreads provided a favorable backdrop for our
    Investing   Lending business. Results for 2010
    primarily reflected a gain of $747 million from our
    investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, a net gain of
    $2.69 billion from other equity securities and a net gain
    of $2.60 billion from debt securities and loans.

Operating expenses were $3.36 billion for 2010, 5% lower
    than 2009, due to the impact of significantly higher real estate
    impairment charges during 2009 related to consolidated entities
    held for investment purposes, as well as decreased compensation
    and benefits expenses, resulting from lower levels of
    discretionary compensation.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings were $4.18 billion in 2010, compared with a
     pre-tax  loss
    of $660 million for 2009.

56

Table of Contents   

2009 versus 2008.   Investing  
    Lending recorded net revenues of $2.86 billion for 2009.
    These results primarily reflected a gain of $1.58 billion
    from our investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, a net gain
    of $1.05 billion from debt securities and loans and a net
    loss of $596 million from other equity securities. During
    2009, our Investing   Lending results reflected a
    recovery in global credit and equity markets following
    significant weakness during 2008. However, continued weakness in
    commercial real estate markets negatively impacted our results
    during 2009. In 2008, results in Investing   Lending
    primarily reflected a loss of $446 million from our
    investment in the ordinary shares of ICBC, a net loss of
    $6.33 billion from debt securities and loans and a net loss
    of $5.95 billion from other equity securities.

Operating expenses were $3.52 billion for 2009, 30% higher
    than 2008, due to increased compensation and benefits expenses,
    resulting from higher net revenues.
     Pre-tax  loss
    was $660 million in 2009 compared with a
     pre-tax  loss
    of $13.54 billion in 2008.

One Month Ended
    December 2008.   Investing   Lending
    recorded negative net revenues of $1.63 billion for the
    month of December 2008. During the month of December,
    continued weakness in global equity and credit markets
    negatively impacted results in our Investing   Lending
    business. Results for December 2008 primarily reflected net
    losses of $1.08 billion from equity securities (excluding
    ICBC)

and $856 million from debt securities and loans, partially
    offset by a gain of $228 million from our investment in the
    ordinary shares of ICBC.

Operating expenses were $204 million for the month of
    December 2008.
     Pre-tax  loss
    was $1.83 billion for the month of December 2008.

Investment
    Management  

Investment Management provides investment management services
    and offers investment products (primarily through separately
    managed accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds
    and private investment funds) across all major asset classes to
    a diverse set of institutional and individual clients.
    Investment Management also offers wealth advisory services,
    including portfolio management and financial counseling, and
    brokerage and other transaction services to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals and families.

Assets under management typically generate fees as a percentage
    of net asset value, which vary by asset class and are affected
    by investment performance as well as asset inflows and
    redemptions. In certain circumstances, we are also entitled to
    receive incentive fees based on a percentage of a fund s
    return or when the return exceeds a specified benchmark or other
    performance targets. Incentive fees are recognized when all
    material contingencies are resolved.

57

Table of Contents   

The table below presents the operating results of our Investment
    Management segment.

Assets under management include only those client assets where
    we earn a fee for managing assets on a discretionary basis. This
    includes assets in our mutual funds, hedge funds, private equity
    funds and separately managed accounts for institutional and
    individual investors. Assets under management do not include

the self-directed assets of our clients, including brokerage
    accounts, or interest-bearing deposits held through our bank
    depository institution subsidiaries.

The table below presents our assets under management by asset
    class.

1.   
     
    Primarily includes hedge funds, private equity, real estate,
    currencies, commodities and asset allocation strategies.

The table below presents a summary of the changes in our assets
    under management.

1.   
     
    Includes market appreciation of $13 billion and net inflows
    of $6 billion during the calendar month of
    December 2008.

2010 versus 2009.   Net revenues in Investment
    Management were $5.01 billion for 2010, 9% higher than
    2009, primarily reflecting higher incentive fees across our
    alternative investment products. Management and other fees also
    increased, reflecting favorable changes in the mix of assets
    under management, as well as the impact of appreciation in the
    value of client assets. During 2010, assets under management
    decreased 4% to $840 billion, primarily

reflecting outflows in money market assets, consistent with
    industry trends.

Operating expenses were $4.05 billion for 2010, 10% higher
    than 2009, primarily reflecting increased staff levels and the
    impact of growth initiatives.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings were $963 million in 2010, 3% higher than 2009.

58

Table of Contents   

2009 versus 2008.   Net revenues in Investment
    Management were $4.61 billion for 2009, 12% lower than
    2008, primarily reflecting the impact of changes in the
    composition of assets managed, principally due to equity market
    depreciation during the fourth quarter of 2008, as well as lower
    incentive fees. During 2009, assets under management increased
    $73 billion to $871 billion, due to $76 billion
    of market appreciation, primarily in fixed income and equity
    assets, partially offset by $3 billion of net outflows.
    Outflows in money market assets were offset by inflows in fixed
    income assets.

Operating expenses were $3.67 billion for 2009, 4% higher
    than 2008, due to higher levels of discretionary compensation.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings were $934 million in 2009, 46% lower than 2008.

One Month Ended December 2008.   Net
    revenues in Investment Management were $343 million for the
    month of December 2008. During the calendar month of
    December, assets under management increased $19 billion to
    $798 billion, due to $13 billion of market
    appreciation, primarily in fixed income and equity assets, and
    $6 billion of net inflows. Net inflows reflected inflows in
    money market assets, partially offset by outflows in fixed
    income, equity and alternative investment assets.

Operating expenses were $263 million for the month of
    December 2008.
     Pre-tax 
    earnings were $80 million for the month of
    December 2008 . 

Geographic
    Data  

See Note 27 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for a summary of our total net revenues,
     pre-tax 
    earnings and net earnings by geographic region.

Regulatory
    Reform  

On July 21, 2010, the
     U.S. Dodd-Frank 
    Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (Dodd-Frank Act)
    was enacted. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly restructures the
    financial regulatory regime under which we operate. The
    implications of the
     Dodd-Frank 
    Act for our businesses will depend to a large extent on the
    provisions of required future rulemaking by the Board of
    Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board),
    the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), the SEC, the
    U.S. Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) and other
    agencies, as well as the development of market practices and
    structures under the regime established by the legislation and
    the rules adopted

pursuant to it. However, we expect that there will be two
    principal areas of impact for us:

the prohibition on  proprietary trading  and the
    limitation on the sponsorship of, and investment in, hedge funds
    and private equity funds by banking entities, including bank
    holding companies; and

increased regulation of and restrictions on
     over-the-counter 
    (OTC) derivatives markets and transactions.

In addition, the legislation creates a new systemic risk
    oversight body to oversee and coordinate the efforts of the
    primary U.S. financial regulatory agencies in establishing
    regulations to address financial stability concerns, including
    more stringent supervisory requirements and prudential standards
    applicable to systemically important financial institutions.
    Legal and regulatory changes under consideration in other
    jurisdictions could also have an impact on our activities in
    markets outside the United States. See
     Business   Regulation  in Part I,
    Item 1 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for more information.

In light of the Dodd-Frank Act, during 2010, we liquidated
    substantially all of the positions that had been held within
    Principal Strategies in our former Equities operating segment,
    as this was a proprietary trading business. In addition, during
    the first quarter of 2011, we commenced the liquidation of the
    positions that had been held by the global macro proprietary
    trading desk in our former Fixed Income, Currency and
    Commodities operating segment. Net revenues from Principal
    Strategies and our global macro proprietary trading desk were
    not material for the year ended December 2010. The full
    impact of the Dodd-Frank Act and other regulatory reforms on our
    businesses, our clients and the markets in which we operate will
    depend on the manner in which the relevant authorities develop
    and implement the required rules and the reaction of market
    participants to these regulatory developments over the next
    several years. We will continue to assess our business, risk
    management, and compliance practices to conform to developments
    in the regulatory environment.

59

Table of Contents   

Balance Sheet and
    Funding Sources  

Balance Sheet
    Management  

One of our most important risk management disciplines is our
    ability to manage the size and composition of our balance sheet.
    While our asset base changes due to client activity, market
    fluctuations and business opportunities, the size and
    composition of our balance sheet reflect (i) our overall
    risk tolerance, (ii) our ability to access stable funding
    sources and (iii) the amount of equity capital we hold.

Although our balance sheet fluctuates on a
     day-to-day 
    basis, our total assets and adjusted assets at quarterly and
    year-end dates are generally not materially different from those
    occurring within our reporting periods.

In order to ensure appropriate risk management, we seek to
    maintain a liquid balance sheet and have processes in place to
    dynamically manage our assets and liabilities which include:

quarterly planning;

business-specific limits;

monitoring of key metrics; and

scenario analyses.

Quarterly Planning.   We prepare a quarterly
    balance sheet plan that combines our projected total assets and
    composition of assets with our expected funding sources and
    capital levels for the upcoming quarter. The objectives of this
    quarterly planning process are:

to develop our near-term balance sheet projections, taking into
    account the general state of the financial markets and expected
    client-driven and firm-driven activity levels;

to ensure that our projected assets are supported by an adequate
    level and tenor of funding and that our projected capital and
    liquidity metrics are within management guidelines; and

to allow business risk managers and managers from our
    independent control and support functions to objectively
    evaluate balance sheet limit requests from business managers in
    the context of the firm s overall balance sheet
    constraints. These constraints include the firm s liability
    profile and equity capital levels, maturities and plans for new
    debt and equity issuances, share repurchases, deposit trends and
    secured funding transactions.

To prepare our quarterly balance sheet plan, business risk
    managers and managers from our independent control and support
    functions meet with business managers to review current and
    prior period metrics and discuss expectations for the upcoming
    quarter. The specific metrics reviewed include asset and
    liability size and composition, aged inventory, limit
    utilization, risk and performance measures and capital usage.

Our consolidated quarterly plan, including our balance sheet
    plans by business, funding and capital projections, and
    projected capital and liquidity metrics, is reviewed by the
    Finance Committee. See  Overview and Structure of Risk
    Management. 

Business-Specific Limits.   The Finance
    Committee sets asset and liability limits for each business and
    aged inventory limits for certain financial instruments as a
    disincentive to hold inventory over longer periods of time.
    These limits are set at levels which are close to actual
    operating levels in order to ensure prompt escalation and
    discussion among business managers and managers in our
    independent control and support functions on a routine basis.
    The Finance Committee reviews and approves balance sheet limits
    on a quarterly basis and may also approve changes in limits on
    an ad hoc basis in response to changing business needs or market
    conditions.

60

Table of Contents   

Monitoring of Key Metrics.   We monitor key
    balance sheet metrics daily both by business and on a
    consolidated basis, including asset and liability size and
    composition, aged inventory, limit utilization, risk measures
    and capital usage. In our consolidated balance sheet, we
    allocate assets to businesses and review and analyze movements
    resulting from new business activity as well as market
    fluctuations.

Scenario Analyses.   We conduct scenario
    analyses to determine how we would manage the size and
    composition of our balance sheet and maintain appropriate
    funding, liquidity and capital positions in a variety of
    situations:

These scenarios cover
     one-year  and
    two-year time horizons using various macro-economic and
     firm-specific 
    assumptions. We use these analyses to assist us in developing
    longer-term funding plans, including the level of unsecured debt
    issuances, the size of our secured funding program and the
    amount and composition of our equity capital. We also consider
    any potential future constraints, such as limits on our ability
    to grow our asset base in the absence of appropriate funding.

Through our Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP)
    and our resolution and recovery planning, we further analyze how
    we would manage our balance sheet through the duration of a
    severe crisis and we develop plans for mitigating actions to
    access funding, generate liquidity,
     and/or 
    redeploy equity capital, as appropriate.

Balance Sheet
    Allocation  

In addition to preparing our consolidated statement of financial
    condition in accordance with U.S. GAAP, we prepare a
    balance sheet that generally allocates assets to our businesses.
    We believe that presenting our assets on this basis is
    meaningful because it is consistent with the way management
    views and manages risks associated with the firm s assets
    and better enables investors to assess the liquidity of the
    firm s assets. The table below presents a summary of this
    balance sheet allocation.

61

Table of Contents   

The following is a description of the captions in the table
    above.

Excess Liquidity and Cash.   We maintain
    substantial excess liquidity to meet a broad range of potential
    cash outflows and collateral needs in the event of a stressed
    environment. See  Liquidity Risk  below for details on
    the composition and sizing of our excess liquidity pool or
     Global Core Excess  (GCE). In addition to our excess
    liquidity, we maintain other operating cash balances, primarily
    for use in specific currencies, entities, or jurisdictions where
    we do not have immediate access to parent company liquidity.

Secured Client Financing.   We provide
    collateralized financing for client positions, including margin
    loans secured by client collateral, securities borrowed, and
    resale agreements primarily collateralized by government
    obligations. As a result of client activities, we are required
    to segregate cash and securities to satisfy regulatory
    requirements. Our secured client financing arrangements, which
    are generally
     short-term, 
    are accounted for at fair value or at amounts that approximate
    fair value, and include daily margin requirements to mitigate
    counterparty credit risk.

Institutional Client Services.   In
    Institutional Client Services, we maintain inventory positions
    to facilitate market-making in fixed income, equity, currency
    and commodity products. Additionally, as part of client
     market-making 
    activities, we enter into resale or

securities borrowing arrangements to obtain securities which we
    can use to cover transactions in which we or our clients have
    sold securities that have not yet been purchased. The
    receivables in Institutional Client Services primarily relate to
    securities transactions.

Investing   Lending.   In
    Investing   Lending, we make investments and originate
    loans to provide financing to clients. These investments and
    loans are typically longer-term in nature. We make investments,
    directly and indirectly through funds that we manage, in debt
    securities, loans, public and private equity securities, real
    estate and other investments.

Other Assets.   Other assets are generally less
    liquid,
     non-financial 
    assets, including property, leasehold improvements and
    equipment, goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, income
    tax-related receivables,
     equity-method 
    investments and miscellaneous receivables.

The table below presents the reconciliation of this balance
    sheet allocation to our U.S. GAAP balance sheet. In the
    tables below, total assets for Institutional Client Services and
    Investing   Lending represent the inventory and
    related assets. These amounts differ from total assets by
    business segment disclosed in Note 27 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    because total assets disclosed in Note 27 include
    allocations of our excess liquidity and other cash, secured
    client financing and other assets.

1.   
     
    Includes unencumbered cash, U.S. government obligations,
    U.S. agency obligations, highly liquid U.S. agency
     mortgage-backed 
    obligations, and French, German, United Kingdom and Japanese
    government obligations.

62

Table of Contents   

Less Liquid Inventory Composition.   We seek to
    maintain a liquid balance sheet comprised of assets that can be
    readily funded on a secured basis. However, we do hold certain
    financial instruments that may be more difficult to fund on a
    secured basis, especially during times of market stress. We
    focus on funding these assets with longer contractual maturities
    to reduce the need to refinance in periods of market stress and
    generally hold higher levels of total capital for these assets
    than for more liquid types of financial instruments. The table
    below presents our aggregate holdings in these categories of
    financial instruments.

1.  
 
         Includes funded commitments and inventory held in connection
    with our origination, investing and
     market-making 
    activities.

2.  
 
         Includes interests in funds that we manage. Such amounts exclude
    assets related to consolidated investment funds of
    $889 million and $919 million as of December 2010
    and December 2009, respectively, for which Goldman Sachs
    does not bear economic exposure. Excludes $792 million as
    of December 2010, related to VIEs consolidated upon
    adoption of Accounting Standards Update
     No. 2009-17, 
     Consolidations (Topic 810)   Improvements to
    Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable
    Interest Entities,  for which Goldman Sachs does not bear
    economic exposure.

3.  
 
         Includes interests of $4.73 billion and $5.13 billion
    as of December 2010 and December 2009, respectively,
    held by investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs.

4.  
 
         During the first quarter of 2010, we converted our remaining
    Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG) preferred stock
    investment into common stock and delivered the common stock to
    close out our remaining hedge position.

5.  
 
         Includes interests in other investment funds that we manage.

See Notes 4 through 6 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information about the financial instruments we hold.

Balance Sheet
    Analysis and Metrics  

As of December 2010, total assets on our consolidated
    statement of financial condition were $911.33 billion, an
    increase of $62.39 billion from December 2009. This
    increase is primarily due to (i) an increase in
    collateralized agreements of $20.44 billion and an increase
    in cash and securities segregated for regulatory and other
    purposes of $17.07 billion, both primarily due to an
    increase in client-driven activity, and (ii) an increase in
    financial instruments owned, at fair value of
    $14.55 billion, primarily due to increases in physical
    commodities and U.S. government and federal agency
    obligations.

As of December 2010, total liabilities on our consolidated
    statement of financial condition were $833.98 billion, an
    increase of $55.75 billion from December 2009. This
    increase is primarily due to (i) an increase in securities
    sold under agreements to repurchase of $33.99 billion,
    primarily due to an increase in secured funding of our financial
    instruments owned, at fair value, and an increase in
    client-driven activity, (ii) an increase in other secured
    financings of $14.24 billion, primarily due to
     client-driven 
    activity and (iii) an increase in financial instruments
    sold, but not yet purchased, at fair value of
    $11.70 billion, primarily due to increases in
     non-U.S. government 
    obligations and equities and convertible debentures.

As of December 2010, our total securities sold under
    agreements to repurchase, accounted for as collateralized
    financings, were $162.35 billion, which was 2% higher and
    10% higher than the daily average amount of repurchase
    agreements during the quarter ended and year ended
    December 2010, respectively. As of December 2010, the
    increase in our repurchase agreements relative to the daily
    average during the quarter and year was due to an increase in
     client-driven 
    activity at the end of the year and an increase in firm
    financing activities. As of December 2009 our total
    securities sold under agreements to repurchase, accounted for as
    collateralized financings, were $128.36 billion, which was
    2% lower and 8% lower than the daily average amount of
    repurchase agreements during the quarter ended and year ended
    December 2009, respectively. The level of our repurchase
    agreements fluctuates between and within periods, primarily due
    to providing clients with access to highly liquid collateral,
    such as U.S. government, federal agency and
     investment-grade 
    sovereign obligations through collateralized financing
    activities.

63

Table of Contents   

The table below presents information on our assets,
    shareholders  equity and leverage ratios.

Adjusted assets.   Adjusted assets equals total
    assets less
     (i) low-risk 
    collateralized assets generally associated with our secured
    client financing transactions and federal funds sold and
    (ii) cash and securities we segregate for regulatory and
    other purposes.

The table below presents the reconciliation of total assets to
    adjusted assets.

Leverage ratio.   The leverage ratio equals
    total assets divided by total shareholders  equity and
    measures the proportion of equity and debt the firm is using to
    finance assets. This ratio is different from the Tier 1
    leverage ratio included in  Equity
     Capital   Consolidated 
    Regulatory Capital Ratios  below, and further described in
    Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Adjusted leverage ratio.   The adjusted leverage
    ratio equals adjusted assets divided by total shareholders 
    equity. We believe that the adjusted leverage ratio is a more
    meaningful measure of our capital adequacy than the leverage
    ratio because it excludes certain
     low-risk 
    collateralized assets that are generally supported with little
    or no capital.

Our adjusted leverage ratio decreased to 7.6x as of
    December 2010 from 7.8x as of December 2009 primarily
    because our total shareholders  equity grew at a higher
    rate than our adjusted assets. Although total assets increased
    by 7% during the period, this growth was principally comprised
    of increases in
     low-risk 
    assets (primarily securities purchased under agreements to
    resell and cash and securities segregated for regulatory and
    other purposes), which do not impact our adjusted assets.

Debt to equity ratio.   The debt to equity ratio
    equals unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings divided by total shareholders  equity.

Funding
    Sources  

Our primary sources of funding are secured financings, unsecured
     long-term 
    and
     short-term 
    borrowings, and deposits. We seek to maintain broad and
    diversified funding sources globally.

We raise funding through a number of different products,
    including:

collateralized financings, such as repurchase agreements,
    securities loaned and other secured financings;

long-term 
    unsecured debt through syndicated U.S. registered
    offerings, U.S. registered and 144A
     medium-term 
    note programs, offshore
     medium-term 
    note offerings and other debt offerings;

short-term 
    unsecured debt through U.S. and
     non-U.S. commercial 
    paper and promissory note issuances and other methods; and

demand and savings deposits through cash sweep programs and time
    deposits through internal and
     third-party 
    broker networks.

We generally distribute our funding sources through our own
    sales force to a large, diverse creditor base in a variety of
    markets in the Americas, Europe and Asia. We believe that our
    relationships with our creditors are critical to our liquidity.
    Our creditors include banks, governments, securities lenders,
    pension funds, insurance companies, mutual funds and
    individuals. We have imposed various internal guidelines to
    monitor creditor concentration across our primary funding
    programs.

64

Table of Contents   

Secured Funding.   We fund a significant amount
    of our inventory on a secured basis. We believe secured funding
    is more stable than unsecured financing because it is less
    sensitive to changes in our credit quality due to the nature of
    the collateral we post to our lenders. However, because the
    terms or availability of secured funding, particularly
     short-dated 
    funding, can deteriorate rapidly in a difficult environment, we
    generally do not rely on
     short-dated 
    secured funding unless it is collateralized with highly liquid
    securities such as government obligations.

Substantially all of our other secured funding is executed for
    tenors of one month or greater. Additionally, we monitor
    counterparty concentration and hold a portion of our GCE for
    refinancing risk associated with all secured funding
    transactions. We seek longer terms for secured funding
    collateralized by lower-quality assets because these funding
    transactions may pose greater refinancing risk.

The weighted average maturity of our secured funding, excluding
    funding collateralized by highly liquid securities eligible for
    inclusion in our GCE, exceeded 100 days as of
    December 2010.

A majority of our secured funding for securities not eligible
    for inclusion in the GCE is executed through term repurchase
    agreements and securities lending contracts. We also raise
    financing through other types of collateralized financings, such
    as secured loans and notes.

Unsecured
     Long-Term 
    Borrowings.   We issue unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings as a source of capital to meet our
     long-term 
    financing requirements and to finance a portion of our GCE. We
    issue in different tenors, currencies, and products to maximize
    the diversification of our investor base. The table below
    presents our quarterly unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings maturity profile through 2016 as of
    December 2010.

Unsecured
    Long-Term Borrowings Maturity Profile  

($ in millions)

65

Table of Contents   

The weighted average maturity of our unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings as of December 2010 was approximately seven
    years. To mitigate refinancing risk, we seek to limit the
    principal amount of debt maturing on any one day or during any
    week or year. We enter into interest rate swaps to convert a
    substantial portion of our
     long-term 
    borrowings into floating-rate obligations in order to minimize
    our exposure to interest rates.

Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program
    (TLGP).   As of December 2010, we had
    $19.01 billion of senior unsecured debt outstanding
    (comprised of $10.43 billion of
     short-term 
    and $8.58 billion of
     long-term) 
    guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLGP, all of which will mature
    on or prior to June 15, 2012. We have not issued
     long-term 
    debt under the TLGP since March 2009 and the program has
    expired for new issuances.

Unsecured
     Short-Term 
    Borrowings.   A significant portion of our
     short-term 
    borrowings were originally
     long-term 
    debt that is scheduled to mature within one year of the
    reporting date. We use
     short-term 
    borrowings to finance liquid assets and for other cash
    management purposes. We primarily issue commercial paper,
    promissory notes, and other hybrid instruments. We prefer
    issuing promissory notes, in which we do not make a market, over
    commercial paper, which we may repurchase prior to maturity
    through the ordinary course of business as a market maker.

As of December 2010, our unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, including the current portion of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, were $47.84 billion. See Note 15 to the
    consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8
    of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information about our unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings.

Deposits.   As of December 2010, our bank
    depository institution subsidiaries had $38.57 billion in
    customer deposits, including $8.50 billion of certificates
    of deposit and other time deposits with a weighted average
    maturity of three years, and $30.07 billion of other
    deposits, substantially all of which were from cash sweep
    programs. We utilize deposits to finance lending activities in
    our bank subsidiaries and to support potential outflows, such as
    lending commitments.

Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank USA) has access to funding
    through the Federal Reserve Bank discount window. While we do
    not rely on this funding in our liquidity planning and stress
    testing, we maintain policies and procedures necessary to access
    this funding and test discount window borrowing procedures.

Equity
    Capital  

The level and composition of our equity capital are determined
    by multiple factors including our consolidated regulatory
    capital requirements and ICAAP, and may also be influenced by
    other factors such as rating agency guidelines, subsidiary
    capital requirements, the business environment, conditions in
    the financial markets and assessments of potential future losses
    due to adverse changes in our business and market environments.
    In addition, we maintain a contingency capital plan which
    provides a framework for analyzing and responding to an actual
    or perceived capital shortfall.

Our consolidated regulatory capital requirements are determined
    by the Federal Reserve Board, as described below. Our ICAAP
    incorporates an internal
     risk-based 
    capital assessment designed to identify and measure material
    risks associated with our business activities, including market
    risk, credit risk and operational risk, in a manner that is
    closely aligned with our risk management practices. Our internal
     risk-based 
    capital assessment is supplemented with the results of stress
    tests.

As of December 2010, our total shareholders  equity
    was $77.36 billion (consisting of common shareholders 
    equity of $70.40 billion and preferred stock of
    $6.96 billion). As of December 2009, our total
    shareholders  equity was $70.71 billion (consisting of
    common shareholders  equity of $63.76 billion and
    preferred stock of $6.96 billion). In addition to total
    shareholders  equity, we consider our $5.00 billion of
    junior subordinated debt issued to trusts to be part of our
    equity capital, as it qualifies as capital for regulatory and
    certain rating agency purposes. See
       Consolidated Regulatory Capital Ratios 
    below for information regarding the impact of regulatory
    developments.

66

Table of Contents   

Consolidated
    Regulatory Capital  

The Federal Reserve Board is the primary regulator of
    Group Inc., a bank holding company and a financial holding
    company under the U.S. Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. As
    a bank holding company, we are subject to consolidated
    regulatory capital requirements that are computed in accordance
    with the Federal Reserve Board s capital adequacy
    regulations currently applicable to bank holding companies
    (Basel 1). These capital requirements, which are based on the
    Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
    (Basel Committee), are expressed as capital ratios that compare
    measures of capital to
     risk-weighted 
    assets (RWAs). See Note 20 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for additional information regarding the firm s RWAs. The
    firm s capital levels are also subject to qualitative
    judgments by its regulators about components, risk weightings
    and other factors.

Federal Reserve Board regulations require bank holding companies
    to maintain a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 4% and a
    minimum total capital ratio of 8%. The required minimum
    Tier 1 capital ratio and total capital ratio in order to be
    considered a  well-capitalized  bank holding company
    under the Federal Reserve Board guidelines are 6% and 10%,
    respectively. Bank holding companies may be expected to maintain
    ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon their
    particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. The minimum
    Tier 1 leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that
    have received the highest supervisory rating under Federal
    Reserve Board guidelines or that have implemented the Federal
    Reserve Board s
     risk-based 
    capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies
    must have a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%.

Consolidated
    Regulatory Capital Ratios  

The table below presents information about our regulatory
    capital ratios.

1.  
 
         Principally includes equity investments in
     non-financial 
    companies and the cumulative change in the fair value of our
    unsecured borrowings attributable to the impact of changes in
    our own credit spreads, disallowed deferred tax assets, and
    investments in certain nonconsolidated entities.

2.  
 
         Substantially all of our subordinated debt qualifies as
    Tier 2 capital for Basel 1 purposes.

3.  
 
         See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for additional information about the firm s RWAs and
    Tier 1 leverage ratio.

4.  
 
         The Tier 1 common ratio equals Tier 1 common capital
    divided by RWAs. We believe that the Tier 1 common ratio is
    meaningful because it is one of the measures that we and
    investors use to assess capital adequacy.

Our Tier 1 capital ratio increased to 16.0% as of
    December 2010 from 15.0% as of December 2009. The
    growth in our Tier 1 capital during the year ended
    December 2010 was principally due to an increase in our
    shareholders  equity, which was partially offset by an
    increase in our RWAs. Our Tier 1 leverage ratio increased
    to 8.0% as of December 2010 from 7.6% as of
    December 2009, reflecting an increase in our Tier 1
    capital, principally due to an increase in our
    shareholders  equity, which was partially offset by an
    increase in average adjusted total assets.

67

Table of Contents   

We are currently working to implement the requirements set out
    in the Federal Reserve Board s Capital Adequacy Guidelines
    for Bank Holding Companies: Internal Ratings-Based and Advanced
    Measurement Approaches, which are based on the advanced
    approaches under the Revised Framework for the International
    Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards issued
    by the Basel Committee as applicable to us as a bank holding
    company (Basel 2). U.S. banking regulators have
    incorporated the Basel 2 framework into the existing
     risk-based 
    capital requirements by requiring that internationally active
    banking organizations, such as us, transition to Basel 2
    following the successful completion of a parallel run.

In addition, the Basel Committee has undertaken a program of
    substantial revisions to its capital guidelines. In particular,
    the changes in the  Basel 2.5  guidelines will result
    in increased capital requirements for market risk; additionally,
    the Basel 3 guidelines issued by the Basel Committee in
    December 2010 revise the definition of Tier 1 capital,
    introduce Tier 1 common equity as a regulatory metric, set
    new minimum capital ratios (including a new  capital
    conservation buffer,  which must be composed exclusively of
    Tier 1 common equity and will be in addition to the other
    capital ratios), introduce a Tier 1 leverage ratio within
    international guidelines for the first time, and make
    substantial revisions to the computation of RWAs for credit
    exposures. Implementation of the new requirements is expected to
    take place over an extended transition period, starting at the
    end of 2011 (for Basel 2.5) and end of 2012 (for Basel 3).
    Although the U.S. federal banking agencies have now issued
    proposed rules that are intended to implement certain aspects of
    the Basel 2.5 guidelines, they have not yet addressed all
    aspects of those guidelines or the Basel 3 changes. In addition,
    both the Basel Committee and U.S. banking regulators
    implementing the Dodd-Frank Act have indicated that they will
    impose more stringent capital standards on systemically
    important financial institutions. Although the criteria for
    treatment as a systemically important financial institution have
    not yet been determined, it is probable that they will apply to
    us. Therefore, the regulations ultimately applicable to us may
    be substantially different from those that have been published
    to date.

The Dodd-Frank Act will subject us at a firmwide level to the
    same leverage and
     risk-based 
    capital requirements that apply to depository institutions and
    directs banking regulators to impose additional capital
    requirements as disclosed above. The Federal Reserve Board will
    be required to begin implementing the new leverage and
     risk-based 
    capital regulation by January 2012. As a consequence of
    these changes, Tier 1 capital treatment for our junior
    subordinated debt issued to trusts and our cumulative preferred
    stock will be phased out over a three-year period beginning on
    January 1, 2013. The interaction between the
     Dodd-Frank 
    Act and the Basel Committee s proposed changes adds further
    uncertainty to our future capital requirements.

A number of other governmental entities and regulators,
    including the U.S. Treasury, the European Union and the
    Financial Services Authority in the United Kingdom, have also
    proposed or announced changes which will result in increased
    capital requirements for financial institutions.

As a consequence of these developments, we expect minimum
    capital ratios required to be maintained under Federal Reserve
    Board regulations will be increased and changes in the
    prescribed calculation methodology are expected to result in
    higher RWAs and lower capital ratios than those currently
    computed.

See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for additional information about our regulatory capital ratios
    and the related regulatory requirements.

Internal Capital
    Adequacy Assessment Process  

We perform an ICAAP with the objective of ensuring that the firm
    is appropriately capitalized relative to the risks in our
    business.

As part of our ICAAP, we perform an internal
     risk-based 
    capital assessment. Our internal
     risk-based 
    capital assessment incorporates market risk, credit risk and
    operational risk. Market risk is calculated by using
     Value-at-Risk 
    (VaR) calculations supplemented by
     risk-based 
    add-ons which include risks related to rare events (tail risks).
    Credit risk utilizes assumptions about our counterparties 
    probability of default, the size of our losses in the event of a
    default and the maturity of our counterparties  contractual
    obligations to us. Operational risk is calculated based on
    scenarios incorporating multiple types of operational failures.
    Backtesting is used to gauge the effectiveness of models at
    capturing and measuring relevant risks.

68

Table of Contents   

We evaluate capital adequacy based on the result of our internal
     risk-based 
    capital assessment, supplemented with the results of stress
    tests which measure the firm s performance under various
    market conditions. Our goal is to hold sufficient capital, under
    our internal
     risk-based 
    capital framework, to ensure we remain adequately capitalized
    after experiencing a severe stress event. Our assessment of
    capital adequacy is viewed in tandem with our assessment of
    liquidity adequacy and integrated into the overall risk
    management structure, governance and policy framework of the
    firm.

We attribute capital usage to each of our businesses based upon
    our internal
     risk-based 
    capital and regulatory frameworks and manage the levels of usage
    based upon the balance sheet and risk limits established.

Rating Agency
    Guidelines  

The credit rating agencies assign credit ratings to the
    obligations of Group Inc., which directly issues or
    guarantees substantially all of the firm s senior unsecured
    obligations. GS Bank USA has also been assigned
     long-term 
    issuer ratings as well as ratings on its
     long-term 
    and
     short-term 
    bank deposits. In addition, credit rating agencies have assigned
    ratings to debt obligations of certain other subsidiaries of
    Group Inc.

The level and composition of our equity capital are among the
    many factors considered in determining our credit ratings. Each
    agency has its own definition of eligible capital and
    methodology for evaluating capital adequacy, and assessments are
    generally based on a combination of factors rather than a single
    calculation. See  Liquidity Risk   Credit
    Ratings  for further information about our credit ratings.

Subsidiary
    Capital Requirements  

Many of our subsidiaries, including GS Bank USA and our
     broker-dealer 
    subsidiaries, are subject to separate regulation and capital
    requirements in jurisdictions throughout the world. For purposes
    of assessing the adequacy of its capital, GS Bank USA has
    established an ICAAP which is similar to that used by
    Group Inc. GS Bank USA s capital levels and
    prompt corrective action classification are subject to
    qualitative judgments by its regulators about components, risk
    weightings and other factors.

We expect that the capital requirements of several of our
    subsidiaries will be impacted in the future by the various
    developments arising from the Basel Committee, the Dodd-Frank
    Act, and other governmental entities and regulators.

See Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for information about GS Bank USA s capital ratios
    under Basel 1 as implemented by the Federal Reserve Board, and
    for further information about the capital requirements of our
    other regulated subsidiaries and the potential impact of
    regulatory reform.

Subsidiaries not subject to separate regulatory capital
    requirements may hold capital to satisfy local tax guidelines,
    rating agency requirements (for entities with assigned credit
    ratings) or internal policies, including policies concerning the
    minimum amount of capital a subsidiary should hold based on its
    underlying level of risk. In certain instances, Group Inc.
    may be limited in its ability to access capital held at certain
    subsidiaries as a result of regulatory, tax or other
    constraints. As of December 2010 and December 2009,
    Group Inc. s equity investment in subsidiaries was
    $71.30 billion and $65.74 billion, respectively,
    compared with its total shareholders  equity of
    $77.36 billion and $70.71 billion, respectively.

Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of
    GS Co., GS Bank USA, Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC
    and GSEC subject to certain exceptions. In November 2008,
    we contributed subsidiaries into GS Bank USA, and
    Group Inc. agreed to guarantee certain losses, including
     credit-related 
    losses, relating to assets held by the contributed entities. In
    connection with this guarantee, Group Inc. also agreed to
    pledge to GS Bank USA certain collateral, including
    interests in subsidiaries and other illiquid assets.

Our capital invested in
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    is generally exposed to foreign exchange risk, substantially all
    of which is managed through a combination of derivatives and
     non-U.S. denominated 
    debt.

69

Table of Contents   

Preferred Stock.   In October 2008, we
    issued to Berkshire Hathaway and certain affiliates
    50,000 shares of 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock,
    Series G (Series G Preferred Stock), and a five-year
    warrant to purchase up to 43.5 million shares of common
    stock at an exercise price of $115.00 per share, for aggregate
    proceeds of $5.00 billion. The allocated carrying values of
    the warrant and the Series G Preferred Stock (based on
    their relative fair values on the date of issuance) were
    $1.14 billion and $3.86 billion, respectively. The
    Series G Preferred Stock is redeemable at the firm s
    option, subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board, at
    a redemption value of $5.50 billion, plus accrued and
    unpaid dividends. Accordingly, upon a redemption in full at any
    time in the future of the Series G Preferred Stock, we
    would recognize a
     one-time 
    preferred dividend of $1.64 billion (calculated as the
    difference between the carrying value and redemption value of
    the preferred stock), which would be recorded as a reduction to
    our earnings applicable to common shareholders and to our common
    shareholders  equity in the period of redemption. Based on
    our December 2010 average diluted common shares outstanding
    and basic shares outstanding, the estimated impact to earnings
    per common share and book value per common share would be a
    reduction of approximately $2.80 and $3.00, respectively, in the
    period in which the redemption occurs in the future.

Contingency
    Capital Plan  

Our contingency capital plan outlines the appropriate
    communication procedures to follow during a crisis period,
    including internal dissemination of information as well as
    ensuring timely communication with external stakeholders. It
    also provides a framework for analyzing and responding to a
    perceived or actual capital deficiency, including, but not
    limited to, identification of drivers of a capital deficiency,
    as well as mitigants and potential actions.

Equity Capital
    Management  

Our objective is to maintain a sufficient level and optimal
    composition of equity capital. We principally manage our capital
    through issuances and repurchases of our common stock. We may
    also, from time to time, issue or repurchase our preferred
    stock, junior subordinated debt issued to trusts and other
    subordinated debt as business conditions warrant and subject to
    any regulatory approvals. We manage our capital requirements
    principally by setting limits on balance sheet assets
     and/or 
    limits on risk, in each case both at the consolidated and
    business levels. We attribute capital usage to each of our
    businesses based upon our internal
     risk-based 
    capital and regulatory frameworks

and manage the levels of usage based upon the balance sheet and
    risk limits established.

Share Repurchase Program.   We seek to use our
    share repurchase program to substantially offset increases in
    share count over time resulting from employee
     share-based 
    compensation and to help maintain the appropriate level of
    common equity. The repurchase program is effected primarily
    through regular
     open-market 
    purchases, the amounts and timing of which are determined
    primarily by our issuance of shares resulting from employee
     share-based 
    compensation as well as our current and projected capital
    position (i.e., comparisons of our desired level of capital
    to our actual level of capital), but which may also be
    influenced by general market conditions and the prevailing price
    and trading volumes of our common stock.

As of December 2010, under the Board s existing share
    repurchase program, we can repurchase up to 35.6 million
    additional shares of common stock; however, any such repurchases
    are subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board. See
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
    Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
    Securities  in Part II, Item 5 and Note 19
    to the consolidated financial statements in Part II,
    Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for additional information on our repurchase program.

See Notes 16 and 19 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information about our preferred stock, junior
    subordinated debt issued to trusts and other subordinated debt.

Other Capital
    Metrics  

The table below presents information on our shareholders 
    equity and book value per common share.

70

Table of Contents   

Tangible common shareholders 
    equity.   Tangible common shareholders  equity
    equals total shareholders  equity less preferred stock,
    goodwill and identifiable intangible assets. Tangible book value
    per common share is computed by dividing tangible common
    shareholders  equity by the number of common shares
    outstanding, including restricted stock units (RSUs) granted to
    employees with no future service requirements. We believe that
    tangible common shareholders  equity and tangible book
    value per common share are meaningful because they are measures
    that we and investors use to assess capital adequacy.

The table below presents the reconciliation of total
    shareholders  equity to tangible common shareholders 
    equity.

Book value and tangible book value per common
    share.   Book value and tangible book value per
    common share are based on common shares outstanding, including
    RSUs granted to employees with no future service requirements,
    of 546.9 million and 542.7 million as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively.

Off-Balance-Sheet 
    Arrangements 
    and Contractual Obligations  

Off-Balance-Sheet 
    Arrangements  

We have various types of
     off-balance-sheet 
    arrangements that we enter into in the ordinary course of
    business. Our involvement in these arrangements can take many
    different forms, including:

purchasing or retaining residual and other interests in special
    purpose entities such as
     mortgage-backed 
    and other
     asset-backed 
    securitization vehicles;

holding senior and subordinated debt, interests in limited and
    general partnerships, and preferred and common stock in other
    nonconsolidated vehicles;

entering into interest rate, foreign currency, equity, commodity
    and credit derivatives, including total return swaps;

entering into operating leases; and

providing guarantees, indemnifications, loan commitments,
    letters of credit and representations and warranties.

We enter into these arrangements for a variety of business
    purposes, including securitizations. The securitization vehicles
    that purchase mortgages, corporate bonds, and other types of
    financial assets are critical to the functioning of several
    significant investor markets, including the
     mortgage-backed 
    and other
     asset-backed 
    securities markets, since they offer investors access to
    specific cash flows and risks created through the securitization
    process.

We also enter into these arrangements to underwrite client
    securitization transactions; provide secondary market liquidity;
    make investments in performing and nonperforming debt, equity,
    real estate and other assets; provide investors with
     credit-linked 
    and
     asset-repackaged 
    notes; and receive or provide letters of credit to satisfy
    margin requirements and to facilitate the clearance and
    settlement process.

Our financial interests in, and derivative transactions with,
    such nonconsolidated entities are accounted for at fair value,
    in the same manner as our other financial instruments, except in
    cases where we apply the equity method of accounting.

When we transfer a security that has very little, if any,
    default risk under an agreement to repurchase the security where
    the maturity date of the repurchase agreement matches the
    maturity date of the underlying security (such that we
    effectively no longer have a repurchase obligation) and we have
    relinquished control over the underlying security, we record
    such transactions as sales. These transactions are referred to
    as  repos to maturity.  We had no such transactions
    outstanding as of December 2010 or December 2009.

71

Table of Contents   

The table below presents where a discussion of our various
     off-balance-sheet 
    arrangements may be found in Part II, Items 7 and 8 of
    this
     Form 10-K. 
    In addition, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial
    statements in

Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of our consolidation policies and recent
    accounting developments that affected these policies effective
    January 1, 2010.

Type of Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangement 

Disclosure in
     Form 10-K  

Variable interests and other obligations, including contingent
    obligations, arising from variable interests in nonconsolidated
    VIEs

See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Leases, letters of credit, and lending and other commitments

See below and Note 18 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Guarantees

See below and Note 18 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Derivatives

See Notes 4, 5, 7 and 18 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 

72

Table of Contents   

Contractual
    Obligations  

We have certain contractual obligations which require us to make
    future cash payments. These contractual obligations include our
    unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, secured
     long-term 
    financings, time deposits, contractual interest payments and
    insurance agreements, all of which are included in our
    consolidated statement of financial condition. Our obligations
    to make future cash payments also

include certain
     off-balance-sheet 
    contractual obligations such as purchase obligations, minimum
    rental payments under noncancelable leases and commitments and
    guarantees.

The table below presents our contractual obligations,
    commitments and guarantees as of December 2010.

1.  
 
         Excludes $2.78 billion of time deposits maturing within one
    year of our financial statement date.

2.  
 
         The aggregate contractual principal amount of secured
     long-term 
    financings for which the fair value option was elected,
    primarily consisting of debt raised through our William Street
    credit extension program, transfers of financial assets
    accounted for as financings rather than sales and certain other
    nonrecourse financings, exceeded their related fair value by
    $352 million.

3.  
 
         Includes an increase of $8.86 billion to the carrying
    amount of certain of our unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings related to fair value hedges. In addition, the
    aggregate contractual principal amount of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings (principal and
     non-principal 
    protected) for which the fair value option was elected exceeded
    the related fair value by $349 million.

4.  
 
         Represents estimated future interest payments related to
    unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, secured
     long-term 
    financings and time deposits based on applicable interest rates
    as of December 2010. Includes stated coupons, if any, on
    structured notes.

5.  
 
         Represents estimated undiscounted payments related to future
    benefits and unpaid claims arising from policies associated with
    our insurance activities, excluding separate accounts and
    estimated recoveries under reinsurance contracts.

73

Table of Contents   

In the table above:

Obligations maturing within one year of our financial statement
    date or redeemable within one year of our financial statement
    date at the option of the holder are excluded and are treated as
     short-term 
    obligations.

Obligations that are repayable prior to maturity at the option
    of Goldman Sachs are reflected at their contractual maturity
    dates and obligations that are redeemable prior to maturity at
    the option of the holder are reflected at the dates such options
    become exercisable.

Amounts included in the table do not necessarily reflect the
    actual future cash flow requirements for these arrangements
    because commitments and guarantees represent notional amounts
    and may expire unused or be reduced or cancelled at the
    counterparty s request.

Due to the uncertainty of the timing and amounts that will
    ultimately be paid, our liability for unrecognized tax benefits
    has been excluded. See Note 26 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information about our unrecognized tax benefits.

See Notes 15 and 18 to the consolidated financial
    statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information about our
     short-term 
    borrowings, and commitments and guarantees.

As of December 2010, our unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings were $174.40 billion, with maturities extending
    to 2060, and consisted principally of senior borrowings. See
    Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information about our unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings.

As of December 2010, our future minimum rental payments net
    of minimum sublease rentals under noncancelable leases were
    $3.39 billion. These lease commitments, principally for
    office space, expire on various dates through 2069. Certain
    agreements are subject to periodic escalation provisions for
    increases in real estate taxes and other charges. See
    Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information about our leases.

Our occupancy expenses include costs associated with office
    space held in excess of our current requirements. This excess
    space, the cost of which is charged to earnings as incurred, is
    being held for potential growth or to replace currently occupied
    space that we may exit in the future. We regularly evaluate our
    current and future space capacity in relation to current and
    projected staffing levels. For the year ended
    December 2010, total occupancy expenses for space

held in excess of our current requirements were
    $130 million, which includes costs related to the
    transition to our new headquarters in New York City. In
    addition, in 2010, we incurred exit costs of $28 million,
    related to our office space (included in  Occupancy 
    and  Depreciation and amortization  in the
    consolidated statements of earnings). We may incur exit costs in
    the future to the extent we (i) reduce our space capacity
    or (ii) commit to, or occupy, new properties in the
    locations in which we operate and, consequently, dispose of
    existing space that had been held for potential growth. These
    exit costs may be material to our results of operations in a
    given period.

Overview and
    Structure of Risk Management  

Overview  

We believe that effective risk management is of primary
    importance to the success of the firm. Accordingly, we have
    comprehensive risk management processes through which we
    monitor, evaluate and manage the risks we assume in conducting
    our activities. These include market, credit, liquidity,
    operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risk exposures.
    Our risk management framework is built around three core
    components: governance, processes and people.

Governance.   Risk management governance starts
    with our Board, which plays an important role in reviewing and
    approving risk management policies and practices, both directly
    and through its Risk Committee, which consists of all of our
    independent directors. The Board also receives periodic updates
    on firmwide risks from our independent control and support
    functions. Next, at the most senior levels of the firm, our
    leaders are experienced risk managers, with a sophisticated and
    detailed understanding of the risks we take. Our senior managers
    lead and participate in
     risk-oriented 
    committees, as do the leaders of our independent control and
    support
     functions   including 
    those in internal audit, compliance, controllers, credit risk
    management, human capital management, legal, market risk
    management, operations, operational risk management, tax,
    technology and treasury.

The firm s governance structure provides the protocol and
    responsibility for decision-making on risk management issues and
    ensures implementation of those decisions. We make extensive use
    of
     risk-related 
    committees that meet regularly and serve as an important means
    to facilitate and foster ongoing discussions to identify, manage
    and mitigate risks.

74

Table of Contents   

We maintain strong communication about risk and we have a
    culture of collaboration in decision-making among the
    revenue-producing units, independent control and support
    functions, committees and senior management. While we believe
    that the first line of defense in managing risk rests with the
    managers in our revenue-producing units, we dedicate extensive
    resources to independent control and support functions in order
    to ensure a strong oversight structure and an appropriate
    segregation of duties.

Processes.   We maintain various processes and
    procedures that are critical components of our risk management.
    First and foremost is our daily discipline of marking
    substantially all of the firm s inventory to current market
    levels. Goldman Sachs carries its inventory at fair value, with
    changes in valuation reflected immediately in our risk
    management systems and in net revenues. We do so because we
    believe this discipline is one of the most effective tools for
    assessing and managing risk and that it provides transparent and
    realistic insight into our financial exposures.

We also apply a rigorous framework of limits to control risk
    across multiple transactions, products, businesses and markets.
    This includes setting credit and market risk limits at a variety
    of levels and monitoring these limits on a daily basis. Limits
    are typically set at levels that will be periodically exceeded,
    rather than at levels which reflect our maximum risk appetite.
    This fosters an ongoing dialogue on risk among
     revenue-producing 
    units, independent control and support functions, committees and
    senior management, as well as rapid escalation of
     risk-related 
    matters. See  Market Risk Management  and  Credit
    Risk Management  for further information on our risk limits.

Active management of our positions is another important process.
    Proactive mitigation of our market and credit exposures
    minimizes the risk that we will be required to take outsized
    actions during periods of stress.

We also focus on the rigor and effectiveness of the firm s
    risk systems. The goal of our risk management technology is to
    get the right information to the right people at the right time,
    which requires systems that are comprehensive, reliable and
    timely. We devote significant time and resources to our risk
    management technology to ensure that it consistently provides us
    with complete, accurate and timely information.

People.   Even the best technology serves only
    as a tool for helping to make informed decisions in real time
    about the risks we are taking. Ultimately, effective risk
    management requires our people to make ongoing portfolio
    interpretations and adjustments. In both our revenue-producing
    units and our independent control and support functions, the
    experience of our professionals, and their understanding of the
    nuances and limitations of each risk measure, guide the firm in
    assessing exposures and maintaining them within prudent levels.

Structure  

Ultimate oversight of risk is the responsibility of the
    firm s Board. The Board oversees risk both directly and
    through its Risk Committee. Within the firm, a series of
    committees with specific risk management mandates have oversight
    or decision-making responsibilities for risk management
    activities. Committee membership generally consists of senior
    managers from both our revenue-producing units and our
    independent control and support functions. We have established
    procedures for these committees to ensure that appropriate
    information barriers are in place. Our primary risk committees,
    most of which also have additional
     sub-committees 
    or working groups, are described below. In addition to these
    committees, we have other
     risk-oriented 
    committees which provide oversight for different businesses,
    activities, products, regions and legal entities.

Membership of the firm s risk committees is reviewed
    regularly and updated to reflect changes in the responsibilities
    of the committee members. Accordingly, the length of time that
    members serve on the respective committees varies as determined
    by the relevant committee charter or the committee chairs, and
    based on the responsibilities of the members within the firm.

In addition, independent control and support functions, which
    report to the chief financial officer, general counsels, chief
    administrative officer, or in the case of Internal Audit, to the
    Audit Committee of the Board, are responsible for
     day-to-day 
    oversight of risk, as discussed in greater detail in the
    following sections.

75

Table of Contents   

The chart below presents an overview of our risk management
    governance structure, highlighting the oversight of our Board,
    our key
     risk-related  

committees and the independence of our control and support
    functions. 

Management Committee.   The Management Committee
    oversees the global activities of the firm, including all of the
    firm s independent control and support functions. It
    provides this oversight directly and through authority delegated
    to committees it has established. This committee is comprised of
    the most senior leaders of the firm, and is chaired by the
    firm s chief executive officer. The Management Committee
    has established various committees with delegated authority and
    appoints the chairpersons of these committees (the chairpersons
    then appoint the other members of the committees). All of these
    committees (and other committees established by such committees)
    report, directly or indirectly, to the Management Committee.
    Most members of the Management Committee are also members of
    other firmwide, divisional and regional committees. The
    following are the committees established by the Management
    Committee that are principally involved in firmwide risk
    management.

Firmwide Client and Business Standards
    Committee.   The Firmwide Client and Business
    Standards Committee assesses and makes determinations regarding
    business standards and practices, reputational risk management,
    client relationships and client service, and is chaired by the
    firm s president and chief operating officer. This
    committee also has responsibility for overseeing the
    implementation of the recommendations of the Business Standards
    Committee. This committee has established the following two
    committees that report to it and is responsible for appointing
    the chairpersons of these committees and other committee members:

Firmwide New Activity Committee.   The Firmwide
    New Activity Committee is responsible for reviewing new
    activities and establishing a process to identify and review
    previously approved activities that are significant and that
    have changed in complexity
     and/or 
    structure or present different reputational and suitability
    concerns over time to consider whether these activities remain
    appropriate. This committee is
     co-chaired 
    by the firm s head of operations and the chief
    administrative officer of our Investment Management Division.

76

Table of Contents   

Firmwide Suitability Committee.   The Firmwide
    Suitability Committee is responsible for setting standards and
    policies for product, transaction and client suitability and
    providing a forum for consistency across divisions, regions and
    products on suitability assessments. This committee also reviews
    suitability matters escalated from other firm committees. This
    committee is
     co-chaired 
    by the firm s international general counsel and the chief
    operating officer of our Investment Management Division.

Firmwide Risk Committee.   The Firmwide Risk
    Committee is responsible for the ongoing monitoring and control
    of the firm s global financial risks. Through both direct
    and delegated authority, the Firmwide Risk Committee approves
    firmwide, product, divisional and business-level limits for both
    market and credit risks, approves sovereign credit risk limits
    and reviews results of stress tests and scenario analyses. This
    committee is co-chaired by the firm s chief financial
    officer and a senior managing director from the firm s
    executive office. The Firmwide Risk Committee has established
    the Securities Division Risk Committee, the Credit Policy
    Committee and the Operational Risk Committee and the Management
    Committee established the Firmwide Finance Committee. All four
    of these committees report to the Firmwide Risk Committee, which
    is responsible for appointing the chairperson of the four
    committees, who then appoints the other committee members:

Securities Division Risk Committee.   The
    Securities Division Risk Committee sets market risk limits,
    subject to overall firmwide risk limits, for our Fixed Income,
    Currency and Commodities Client Execution and Equities Client
    Execution businesses based on a number of risk measures,
    including VaR, stress tests, scenario analyses, and inventory
    levels. This committee is chaired by the chief risk officer of
    our Securities Division.

Credit Policy Committee.   The Credit Policy
    Committee establishes and reviews broad credit policies and
    parameters that are implemented by our Credit Risk Management
    department (Credit Risk Management). This committee is chaired
    by the firm s chief credit officer.

Operational Risk Committee.   The Operational
    Risk Committee provides oversight of the ongoing development and
    implementation of our operational risk policies, framework and
    methodologies, and monitors the effectiveness of operational
    risk management. This committee is chaired by the chief risk
    officer of GS Bank USA.

Finance Committee.   The Finance Committee has
    oversight of firmwide liquidity, the size and composition of our
    balance sheet and capital base, and our credit ratings. This
    committee regularly reviews our liquidity, balance sheet,
    funding position and capitalization, and makes adjustments in
    light of current events, risks and exposures, and regulatory
    requirements. This committee is also responsible for reviewing
    and approving balance sheet limits and the size of our GCE. This
    committee is co-chaired by the firm s chief financial
    officer and the firm s global treasurer.

The following committees report jointly to the Firmwide Risk
    Committee and the Firmwide Client and Business Standards
    Committee, which also appoint the chairpersons of these
    committees (who then appoint the members of the committees).

Firmwide Capital Committee.   The Firmwide
    Capital Committee provides approval and oversight of
     debt-related 
    underwriting transactions, including related commitments of the
    firm s capital. This committee aims to ensure that business
    and reputational standards for underwritings and capital
    commitments are maintained on a global basis. This committee is
    chaired by the global head of the firm s Financing Group
    and head of the firm s independent control and support
    functions in Europe, Middle East and Africa.

Firmwide Commitments Committee.   The Firmwide
    Commitments Committee reviews the firm s underwriting and
    distribution activities with respect to equity and
     equity-related 
    product offerings, and sets and maintains policies and
    procedures designed to ensure that legal, reputational,
    regulatory and business standards are maintained on a global
    basis. In addition to reviewing specific transactions, this
    committee periodically conducts general strategic reviews of
    sectors and products and establishes policies in connection with
    transaction practices. This committee is co-chaired by the head
    of our Latin America Group and the head of the firm s
    independent control and support functions in Europe, Middle East
    and Africa.

Investment Management Division Risk
    Committee.   The Investment Management
    Division Risk Committee is responsible for the ongoing
    monitoring and control of global market, counterparty credit and
    liquidity risks associated with the activities of our investment
    management businesses. The head of Investment Management
    Division risk management is the chair of this committee and
    appoints the other members.

77

Table of Contents   

Liquidity
    Risk  

Liquidity is of critical importance to financial institutions.
    Most of the recent failures of financial institutions have
    occurred in large part due to insufficient liquidity.
    Accordingly, the firm has in place a comprehensive and
    conservative set of liquidity and funding policies to address
    both firm-specific and broader industry or market liquidity
    events. Our principal objective is to be able to fund the firm
    and to enable our core businesses to continue to generate
    revenues, even under adverse circumstances.

We manage liquidity risk according to the following principles:

Excess Liquidity.   We maintain substantial
    excess liquidity to meet a broad range of potential cash
    outflows and collateral needs in a stressed environment.

Asset-Liability 
    Management.   We assess anticipated holding periods
    for our assets and their potential illiquidity in a stressed
    environment. We manage the maturities and diversity of our
    funding across markets, products and counterparties; and seek to
    maintain liabilities of appropriate tenor relative to our asset
    base.

Contingency Funding Plan.   We maintain a
    contingency funding plan to provide a framework for analyzing
    and responding to a liquidity crisis situation or periods of
    market stress. This framework sets forth the plan of action to
    fund normal business activity in emergency and stress
    situations. These principles are discussed in more detail below.

Excess
    Liquidity  

Our most important liquidity policy is to
     pre-fund  our
    estimated potential cash needs during a liquidity crisis and
    hold this excess liquidity in the form of unencumbered, highly
    liquid securities and cash instruments. We believe that this
    global core excess would be readily convertible to cash in a
    matter of days, through liquidation, by entering into repurchase
    agreements or from maturities of reverse repurchase agreements,
    and that this cash would allow us to meet immediate obligations
    without needing to sell other

assets or depend on additional funding from
     credit-sensitive 
    markets.

As of December 2010 and December 2009, the fair value
    of the securities and certain overnight cash deposits included
    in our GCE totaled $174.78 billion and
    $170.69 billion, respectively. Based on the results of our
    internal liquidity risk model, discussed below, as well as our
    consideration of other factors including but not limited to a
    qualitative assessment of the condition of the financial markets
    and the firm, we believe our liquidity position as of
    December 2010 was appropriate.

Beginning with the fourth quarter of 2010, our GCE, which was
    previously reported at loan value, is now reported at fair
    value. The differences between the loan value and fair value
    were not material and prior periods are presented on a
    comparable basis.

The table below presents the fair value of the securities and
    certain overnight cash deposits that are included in our GCE.

The
     U.S. dollar-denominated 
    excess is composed of unencumbered U.S. government
    obligations, U.S. agency obligations and highly liquid
    U.S. agency
     mortgage-backed 
    obligations, all of which are eligible as collateral in Federal
    Reserve open market operations and certain overnight
    U.S. dollar cash deposits. The
     non-U.S. dollar-denominated 
    excess is composed of only unencumbered French, German, United
    Kingdom and Japanese government obligations and certain
    overnight cash deposits in highly liquid currencies. We strictly
    limit our excess liquidity to this narrowly defined list of
    securities and cash because they are highly liquid, even in a
    difficult funding environment. We do not include other potential
    sources of excess liquidity, such as lower-quality unencumbered
    securities or committed credit facilities, in our GCE.

78

Table of Contents   

The table below presents the fair value of our GCE by asset
    class.

The GCE is held at Group Inc. and our major
     broker-dealer 
    and bank subsidiaries, as presented in the table below.

Our GCE reflects the following principles:

The first days or weeks of a liquidity crisis are the most
    critical to a company s survival.

Focus must be maintained on all potential cash and collateral
    outflows, not just disruptions to financing flows. Our
    businesses are diverse, and our liquidity needs are determined
    by many factors, including market movements, collateral
    requirements and client commitments, all of which can change
    dramatically in a difficult funding environment.

During a liquidity crisis,
     credit-sensitive 
    funding, including unsecured debt and some types of secured
    financing agreements, may be unavailable, and the terms
    (e.g., interest rates, collateral provisions and tenor) or
    availability of other types of secured financing may change.

As a result of our policy to
     pre-fund 
    liquidity that we estimate may be needed in a crisis, we hold
    more unencumbered securities and have larger debt balances than
    our businesses would otherwise require. We believe that our
    liquidity is stronger with greater balances of highly liquid
    unencumbered securities, even though it increases our total
    assets and our funding costs.

We believe that our GCE provides us with a resilient source of
    funds that would be available in advance of potential cash and
    collateral outflows and gives us significant flexibility in
    managing through a difficult funding environment.

In order to determine the appropriate size of our GCE, we use an
    internal liquidity model, referred to as the Modeled Liquidity
    Outflow, which captures and quantifies the firm s liquidity
    risks. We also consider other factors including but not limited
    to a qualitative assessment of the condition of the financial
    markets and the firm.

We distribute our GCE across subsidiaries, asset types, and
    clearing agents to provide us with sufficient operating
    liquidity to ensure timely settlement in all major markets, even
    in a difficult funding environment.

We maintain our GCE to enable us to meet current and potential
    liquidity requirements of our parent company, Group Inc.,
    and our major
     broker-dealer 
    and bank subsidiaries. The Modeled Liquidity Outflow
    incorporates a consolidated requirement as well as a standalone
    requirement for each of our major
     broker-dealer 
    and bank subsidiaries. Liquidity held directly in each of these
    subsidiaries is intended for use only by that subsidiary to meet
    its liquidity requirements and is assumed not to be available to
    Group Inc. unless (i) legally provided for and
    (ii) there are no additional regulatory, tax or other
    restrictions. We hold a portion of our GCE directly at
    Group Inc. to support consolidated requirements not
    accounted for in the major subsidiaries. In addition to the GCE
    held at our major
     broker-dealer 
    and bank subsidiaries, we maintain operating cash balances in
    several of our other operating entities, primarily for use in
    specific currencies, entities, or jurisdictions where we do not
    have immediate access to parent company liquidity.

In addition to our GCE, we have a significant amount of other
    unencumbered cash and financial instruments, including other
    government obligations,
     high-grade 
    money market securities, corporate obligations, marginable
    equities, loans and cash deposits not included in our GCE. The
    fair value of these assets averaged $72.98 billion and
    $71.82 billion for the years ended December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively. We do not consider these
    assets liquid enough to be eligible for our GCE liquidity pool
    and therefore conservatively do not assume we will generate
    liquidity from these assets in a
     short-term 
    stress scenario.

79

Table of Contents   

Modeled Liquidity Outflow.   Our Modeled
    Liquidity Outflow is based on a scenario that includes both a
     market-wide 
    stress and a firm-specific stress, characterized by some or all
    of the following elements:

Global recession, default by a
     medium-sized 
    sovereign, low consumer and corporate confidence, and general
    financial instability.

Severely challenged market environment with material declines in
    equity markets and widening of credit spreads.

Damaging follow-on impacts to financial institutions leading to
    the failure of a large bank.

A firm-specific crisis potentially triggered by material losses,
    reputational damage, litigation, executive departure,
     and/or  a
    ratings downgrade.

The following are the critical modeling parameters of the
    Modeled Liquidity Outflow:

Liquidity needs over a
     30-day 
    scenario.

A  two-notch 
    downgrade of the firm s
     long-term 
    senior unsecured credit ratings.

No support from government funding
    facilities.  Although we have access to various
    central bank funding programs, we do not assume reliance on them
    as a source of funding in a liquidity crisis.

A combination of contractual outflows, such as upcoming
    maturities of unsecured debt, and contingent outflows
    (e.g., actions though not contractually required, we may
    deem necessary in a crisis). We assume that most contingent
    outflows will occur within the initial days and weeks of a
    crisis.

No diversification benefit across liquidity risks. We assume
    that liquidity risks are additive.

Maintenance of our normal business levels. We do not assume
    asset liquidation, other than the GCE.

The Modeled Liquidity Outflow is calculated and reported to
    senior management on a daily basis. We regularly refine our
    model to reflect changes in market or economic conditions and
    the firm s business mix.

The potential contractual and contingent cash and collateral
    outflows covered in our Modeled Liquidity Outflow include:

Unsecured
    Funding   

Contractual:  All upcoming maturities of unsecured
     long-term 
    debt, commercial paper, promissory notes and other unsecured
    funding products. We assume that we will be unable to issue new
    unsecured debt or rollover any maturing debt.

Contingent:  Repurchases of our outstanding
     long-term 
    debt, commercial paper and hybrid financial instruments in the
    ordinary course of business as a market maker.

Deposits   

Contractual:  All upcoming maturities of term
    deposits. We assume that we will be unable to raise new term
    deposits or rollover any maturing term deposits.

Contingent:  Withdrawals of bank deposits that have no
    contractual maturity. The withdrawal assumptions reflect, among
    other factors, the type of deposit, whether the deposit is
    insured or uninsured, and the firm s relationship with the
    depositor.

Secured
    Funding   

Contractual:  A portion of upcoming contractual
    maturities of secured funding trades due to either the inability
    to refinance or the ability to refinance only at wider haircuts
    (i.e., on terms which require us to post additional
    collateral). Our assumptions reflect, among other factors, the
    quality of the underlying collateral and counterparty
    concentration.

Contingent:  A decline in value of financial assets
    pledged as collateral for financing transactions, which would
    necessitate additional collateral postings under those
    transactions.

OTC
    Derivatives   

Contingent:  Collateral postings to counterparties due
    to adverse changes in the value of our OTC derivatives.

Contingent:  Other outflows of cash or collateral
    related to OTC derivatives, including the impact of trade
    terminations, collateral substitutions, collateral disputes,
    collateral calls or termination payments required by a
     two-notch 
    downgrade in our credit ratings, and collateral that has not
    been called by counterparties, but is available to them.

Exchange-Traded 
    Derivatives   

Contingent:  Variation margin postings required due to
    adverse changes in the value of our outstanding
     exchange-traded 
    derivatives.

Contingent:  An increase in initial margin and
    guaranty fund requirements by derivative clearing houses.

Customer Cash
    and Securities   

Contingent:  Liquidity outflows associated with our
    prime brokerage business, including withdrawals of customer
    credit balances, and a reduction in customer short positions,
    which serve as a funding source for long positions.

80

Table of Contents   

Unfunded
    Commitments   

Contingent:  Draws on our unfunded commitments. Draw
    assumptions reflect, among other things, the type of commitment
    and counterparty.

Other   

Other upcoming large cash outflows, such as tax payments.

Asset-Liability 
    Management  

Our liquidity risk management policies are designed to ensure we
    have a sufficient amount of financing, even when funding markets
    experience persistent stress. We seek to maintain a
     long-dated 
    and diversified funding profile, taking into consideration the
    characteristics and liquidity profile of our assets.

Our approach to
     asset-liability 
    management includes:

Conservatively managing the overall characteristics of our
    funding book, with a focus on maintaining
     long-term, 
    diversified sources of funding in excess of our current
    requirements. See  Balance Sheet and Funding
    Sources   Funding Sources  for additional details.

Actively managing and monitoring our asset base, with particular
    focus on the liquidity, holding period and our ability to fund
    assets on a secured basis. This enables us to determine the most
    appropriate funding products and tenors. Less liquid assets are
    more difficult to fund and therefore require funding that has
    longer tenors with a greater proportion of unsecured debt. For
    more detail on our balance sheet management process, please see
     Balance Sheet and Funding Sources   Balance
    Sheet Management. 

Raising secured and unsecured financing that has a sufficiently
    longer term than the anticipated holding period of our assets.
    This reduces the risk that our liabilities will come due in
    advance of our ability to generate liquidity from the sale of
    our assets. Because we maintain a highly liquid balance sheet,
    the holding period of certain of our assets may be materially
    shorter than their contractual maturity dates.

Our goal is to have sufficient total capital (unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings plus total shareholders  equity) so that we can
    avoid reliance on asset sales (other than our GCE). However, we
    recognize that orderly asset sales may be prudent or necessary
    in a severe or persistent liquidity crisis. The target amount of
    our total capital is based on an internal funding model which
    incorporates the following
     long-term 
    financing requirements:

The portion of financial instruments owned, at fair value that
    we believe could not be funded on a secured basis in periods of
    market stress, assuming stressed fair values.

Goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, property, leasehold
    improvements and equipment, and other illiquid assets.

Derivative and other margin and collateral requirements.

Anticipated draws on our unfunded loan commitments.

Regulatory requirements to hold capital or other forms of
    financing in excess of what we would otherwise hold in regulated
    subsidiaries.

Subsidiary Funding Policies.   The majority of
    our unsecured funding is raised by Group Inc. which lends
    the necessary funds to its subsidiaries, some of which are
    regulated, to meet their asset financing, liquidity and capital
    requirements. In addition, Group Inc. provides its
    regulated subsidiaries with the necessary capital to meet their
    regulatory requirements. The benefits of this approach to
    subsidiary funding are enhanced control and greater flexibility
    to meet the funding requirements of our subsidiaries. Funding is
    also raised at the subsidiary level through a variety of
    products, including secured funding, unsecured borrowings and
    deposits.

Our intercompany funding policies assume that, unless legally
    provided for, a subsidiary s funds or securities are not
    freely available to its parent company or other subsidiaries. In
    particular, many of our subsidiaries are subject to laws that
    authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds
    from those subsidiaries to Group Inc. Regulatory action of
    that kind could impede access to funds that Group Inc.
    needs to make payments on its obligations. Accordingly, we
    assume that the capital provided to our regulated subsidiaries
    is not available to Group Inc. or other subsidiaries and
    any other financing provided to our regulated subsidiaries is
    not available until the maturity of such financing.

81

Table of Contents   

Group Inc. has provided substantial amounts of equity and
    subordinated indebtedness, directly or indirectly, to its
    regulated subsidiaries. For example, as of December 2010,
    Group Inc. had $30.80 billion of equity and
    subordinated indebtedness invested in GS Co., its principal
    U.S. registered
     broker-dealer; 
    $22.67 billion invested in GSI, a regulated U.K.
     broker-dealer; 
    $2.72 billion invested in Goldman Sachs
    Execution   Clearing, L.P., a U.S. registered
     broker-dealer; 
    $3.43 billion invested in Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd., a
    regulated Japanese
     broker-dealer; 
    and $23.80 billion invested in GS Bank USA, a
    regulated New York State-chartered bank. Group Inc. also
    had $81.93 billion of unsubordinated loans and
    $12.62 billion of collateral provided to these entities as
    of December 2010 and significant amounts of capital
    invested in and loans to its other regulated subsidiaries.

Contingency
    Funding Plan  

The Goldman Sachs contingency funding plan sets out the plan of
    action we would use to fund business activity in crisis
    situations and periods of market stress. The contingency funding
    plan outlines a list of potential risk factors, key reports and
    metrics that are reviewed on an ongoing basis to assist in
    assessing the severity of, and managing through, a liquidity
    crisis
     and/or 
    market

dislocation. The contingency funding plan also describes in
    detail the firm s potential responses if our assessments
    indicate that the firm has entered a liquidity crisis, which
    include
     pre-funding 
    for what we estimate will be our potential cash and collateral
    needs as well as utilizing secondary sources of liquidity.
    Mitigants and action items to address specific risks which may
    arise are also described and assigned to individuals responsible
    for execution.

The contingency funding plan identifies key groups of
    individuals to foster effective coordination, control and
    distribution of information, all of which are critical in the
    management of a crisis or period of market stress. The
    contingency funding plan also details the responsibilities of
    these groups and individuals, which include making and
    disseminating key decisions, coordinating all contingency
    activities throughout the duration of the crisis or period of
    market stress, implementing liquidity maintenance activities and
    managing internal and external communication.

Credit
    Ratings  

The table below presents our unsecured credit ratings (excluding
    debt guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLGP) and outlook as of
    December 2010.

Short-Term 

Long-Term 

Subordinated 

Trust 

Preferred 

Rating 

Debt 

Debt 

Debt 

Preferred  1  

Stock  2  

Outlook 

DBRS, Inc. 

R-1 (middle 

) 

A (high 

) 

A 

A 

BBB 

Stable 

5  

Fitch,
    Inc.  3 

F1+ 

A+ 

A 

A- 

A- 

Negative 

6  

Moody s Investors
    Service  4 

P-1 

A1 

A2 

A3 

Baa2 

Negative 

7  

Standard   Poor   s Ratings Services

A-1 

A 

A- 

BBB- 

BBB- 

Negative 

7  

Rating and Investment Information, Inc. 

a-1+ 

AA- 

A+ 

Not Applicable 

Not Applicable 

Negative 

8  

1.  
 
         Trust preferred securities issued by Goldman Sachs
    Capital I.

2.  
 
         Includes Group Inc. s
     non-cumulative 
    preferred stock and the Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced
    Capital Securities (APEX) issued by Goldman Sachs
    Capital II and Goldman Sachs Capital III.

3.  
 
         GS Bank USA has been assigned a rating of AA- for
     long-term 
    bank deposits, F1+ for
     short-term 
    bank deposits and A+ for
     long-term 
    issuer.

4.  
 
         GS Bank USA has been assigned a rating of Aa3 for
     long-term 
    bank deposits,
     P-1  for
     short-term 
    bank deposits and Aa3 for
     long-term 
    issuer.

5.  
 
         Applies to
     long-term 
    and
     short-term 
    ratings.

6.  
 
         Applies to
     long-term 
    issuer default ratings.

7.  
 
         Applies to
     long-term 
    ratings.

8.  
 
         Applies to issuer rating.

82

Table of Contents   

We rely on the
     short-term 
    and
     long-term 
    debt capital markets to fund a significant portion of our
     day-to-day 
    operations and the cost and availability of debt financing is
    influenced by our credit ratings. Credit ratings are also
    important when we are competing in certain markets, such as OTC
    derivatives, and when we seek to engage in longer-term
    transactions. See  Certain Risk Factors That May Affect Our
    Businesses,  and  Risk Factors  in Part I,
    Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K 
    for a discussion of the risks associated with a reduction in our
    credit ratings.

We believe our credit ratings are primarily based on the credit
    rating agencies  assessment of:

our liquidity, market, credit and operational risk management
    practices;

the level and variability of our earnings;

our capital base;

our franchise, reputation and management;

our corporate governance; and

the external operating environment, including the assumed level
    of government support.

We allocate a portion of our GCE to ensure we would be able to
    make the additional collateral or termination payments that may
    be required in the event of a
     two-notch 
    reduction in our
     long-term 
    credit ratings, as well as collateral that has not been called
    by counterparties, but is available to them. The table below
    presents the additional collateral or termination payments that
    could have been called at the reporting date by counterparties
    in the event of a
     one-notch 
    and
     two-notch 
    downgrade in our credit ratings.

The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision s international
    framework for liquidity risk measurement, standards and
    monitoring calls for imposition of a liquidity coverage ratio,
    designed to ensure that the banking entity maintains an adequate
    level of unencumbered
     high-quality 
    liquid assets based on expected cash outflows under an acute
    liquidity stress scenario, and a net stable funding ratio,
    designed to promote more medium- and
     long-term 
    funding of the assets and activities of banking entities over a
     one-year 
    time horizon. The liquidity coverage ratio would be implemented
    subject to an observation period beginning in 2011, but would
    not be introduced as a requirement until
    January 1, 2015, and the net

stable funding ratio would not be introduced as a requirement
    until January 1, 2018. While the principles behind the
    new framework are broadly consistent with our current liquidity
    management framework, it is possible that the implementation of
    these standards could impact our liquidity and funding
    requirements and practices.

Cash
    Flows  

As a global financial institution, our cash flows are complex
    and bear little relation to our net earnings and net assets.
    Consequently, we believe that traditional cash flow analysis is
    less meaningful in evaluating our liquidity position than the
    excess liquidity and
     asset-liability 
    management policies described above. Cash flow analysis may,
    however, be helpful in highlighting certain macro trends and
    strategic initiatives in our businesses.

Year Ended December 2010.   Our cash and
    cash equivalents increased by $1.50 billion to
    $39.79 billion at the end of 2010. We generated
    $7.84 billion in net cash from financing activities
    primarily from net proceeds from issuances of
     short-term 
    secured financings. We used net cash of $6.34 billion for
    operating and investing activities, primarily to fund an
    increase in securities purchased under agreements to resell and
    an increase in cash and securities segregated for regulatory and
    other purposes, partially offset by cash generated from a
    decrease in securities borrowed.

Year Ended December 2009.   Our cash and
    cash equivalents increased by $24.49 billion to
    $38.29 billion at the end of 2009. We generated
    $48.88 billion in net cash from operating activities. We
    used net cash of $24.39 billion for investing and financing
    activities, primarily for net repayments in unsecured and
    secured
     short-term 
    borrowings and the repurchases of Series H Preferred Stock
    and the related common stock warrant from the
    U.S. Treasury, partially offset by an increase in bank
    deposits and the issuance of common stock.

83

Table of Contents   

Market Risk
    Management  

Overview  

Market risk is the risk of loss in the value of our inventory
    due to changes in market prices. We hold inventory primarily for
    market making for our clients and for our investing and lending
    activities. Our inventory therefore changes based on client
    demands and our investment opportunities. Our inventory is
    accounted for at fair value and therefore fluctuates on a daily
    basis. Categories of market risk include the following:

Interest rate risk: primarily results from exposures to changes
    in the level, slope and curvature of yield curves, the
    volatilities of interest rates, mortgage prepayment speeds and
    credit spreads.

Equity price risk: results from exposures to changes in prices
    and volatilities of individual equities, baskets of equities and
    equity indices.

Currency rate risk: results from exposures to changes in spot
    prices, forward prices and volatilities of currency rates.

Commodity price risk: results from exposures to changes in spot
    prices, forward prices and volatilities of commodities, such as
    electricity, natural gas, crude oil, petroleum products, and
    precious and base metals.

Market Risk
    Management Process  

We manage our market risk by diversifying exposures, controlling
    position sizes and establishing economic hedges in related
    securities or derivatives. This includes:

accurate and timely exposure information incorporating multiple
    risk metrics;

a dynamic limit setting framework; and

constant communication among revenue-producing units, risk
    managers and senior management.

Market Risk Management, which is independent of the
    revenue-producing units and reports to the firm s chief
    risk officer, has primary responsibility for assessing,
    monitoring and managing market risk at the firm. We monitor and
    control risks through strong firmwide oversight and independent
    control and support functions across the firm s global
    businesses.

Managers in revenue-producing units are accountable for managing
    risk within prescribed limits. These managers have
     in-depth 
    knowledge of their positions, of markets and the instruments
    available to hedge their exposures.

Managers in revenue-producing units and Market Risk Management
    discuss market information, positions and estimated risk and
    loss scenarios on an ongoing basis.

Risk
    Measures  

Market Risk Management produces risk measures and monitors them
    against market risk limits set by our firm s risk
    committees. These measures reflect an extensive range of
    scenarios and the results are aggregated at trading desk,
    business and firmwide levels.

We use a variety of risk measures to estimate the size of
    potential losses for both moderate and more extreme market moves
    over both
     short-term 
    and
     long-term 
    time horizons. Risk measures used for shorter-term periods
    include VaR and sensitivity metrics. For longer-term horizons,
    our primary risk measures are stress tests. Our risk reports
    detail key risks, drivers and changes for each desk and
    business, and are distributed daily to senior management of both
    our revenue-producing units and our independent control and
    support functions.

Systems  

We have made a significant investment in technology to monitor
    market risk including:

an independent calculation of VaR and stress measures;

risk measures calculated at individual position levels;

attribution of risk measures to individual risk factors of each
    position;

the ability to report many different views of the risk measures
    (e.g., by desk, business, product type or legal entity); and

the ability to produce ad hoc analyses in a timely manner.

84

Table of Contents   

Value-at-Risk   

VaR is the potential loss in value of inventory positions due to
    adverse market movements over a defined time horizon with a
    specified confidence level. We typically employ a
     one-day  time
    horizon with a 95% confidence level. Thus, we would expect to
    see reductions in the fair value of inventory positions at least
    as large as the reported VaR once per month. The VaR model
    captures risks including interest rates, equity prices, currency
    rates and commodity prices. As such, VaR facilitates comparison
    across portfolios of different risk characteristics. VaR also
    captures the diversification of aggregated risk at the firmwide
    level.

Inherent limitations to VaR include:

VaR does not estimate potential losses over longer time horizons
    where moves may be extreme.

VaR does not take account of the relative liquidity of different
    risk positions.

Previous moves in market risk factors may not produce accurate
    predictions of all future market moves.

The historical data used in our VaR calculation is weighted to
    give greater importance to more recent observations and reflect
    current asset volatilities. This improves the accuracy of our
    estimates of potential loss. As a result, even if our inventory
    positions were unchanged, our VaR would increase with increasing
    market volatility and vice versa.

Given its reliance on historical data, VaR is most effective in
    estimating risk exposures in markets in which there are no
    sudden fundamental changes or shifts in market conditions.

We evaluate the accuracy of our VaR model through daily
    backtesting (i.e., comparing daily trading net revenues to
    the VaR measure calculated as of the prior business day) at the
    firmwide level and for each of our businesses and major
    regulated subsidiaries.

VaR does not include:

positions that are best measured and monitored using sensitivity
    measures; and

the impact of changes in counterparty and our own credit spreads
    on derivatives as well as changes in our own credit spreads on
    unsecured borrowings for which the fair value option was elected.

Stress
    Testing  

We use stress testing to examine risks of specific portfolios as
    well as the potential impact of significant risk exposures
    across the firm. We use a variety of scenarios to calculate the
    potential loss from a wide range of market moves on the
    firm s portfolios. These scenarios include the default of
    single corporate or sovereign entities, the impact of a move in
    a single risk factor across all positions (e.g., equity
    prices or credit spreads) or a combination of two or more risk
    factors.

Unlike VaR measures, which have an implied probability because
    they are calculated at a specified confidence level, there is
    generally no implied probability that our stress test scenarios
    will occur. Instead, stress tests are used to model both
    moderate and more extreme moves in underlying market factors.
    When estimating potential loss, we generally assume that our
    positions cannot be reduced or hedged (although experience
    demonstrates that we are generally able to do so).

Stress test scenarios are conducted on a regular basis as part
    of the firm s routine risk management process and on an ad
    hoc basis in response to market events or concerns. Stress
    testing is an important part of the firm s risk management
    process because it allows us to highlight potential loss
    concentrations, undertake risk/reward analysis, and assess and
    mitigate our risk positions.

Limits  

We use risk limits at various levels in the firm (including
    firmwide, product and business) to govern risk appetite by
    controlling the size of our exposures to market risk. Limits are
    reviewed frequently and amended on a permanent or temporary
    basis to reflect changing market conditions, business conditions
    or tolerance for risk.

The Firmwide Risk Committee sets market risk limits at firmwide
    and product levels and our Securities Division Risk
    Committee sets
     sub-limits 
    for
     market-making 
    and investing activities at a business level. The purpose of the
    firmwide limits is to assist senior management in controlling
    the firm s overall risk profile.
     Sub-limits 
    set the desired maximum amount of exposure that may be managed
    by any particular business on a
     day-to-day 
    basis without additional levels of senior management approval,
    effectively leaving
     day-to-day 
    trading decisions to individual desk managers and traders.
    Accordingly,
     sub-limits 
    are a management tool designed to ensure appropriate escalation
    rather than to establish maximum risk tolerance.
     Sub-limits 
    also distribute risk among various businesses in a manner that
    is consistent with their level of activity and client demand,
    taking into account the relative performance of each area.

85

Table of Contents   

Our market risk limits are monitored daily by Market Risk
    Management, which is responsible for identifying and escalating,
    on a timely basis, instances where limits have been exceeded.
    The business-level limits that are set by the Securities
    Division Risk Committee are subject to the same scrutiny
    and limit escalation policy as the firmwide limits.

When a risk limit has been exceeded (e.g., due to changes
    in market conditions, such as increased volatilities or changes
    in correlations), it is reported to the appropriate risk
    committee and a discussion takes place with the relevant desk
    managers, after which either the risk position is reduced or the
    risk limit is temporarily or permanently increased.

Metrics  

We analyze VaR at the firmwide level and a variety of more
    detailed levels, including by risk category, business, and
    region. The tables below present average daily VaR and year-end
    VaR by risk category.

Average Daily
    VaR  

1.   
     
    Equals the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs
    for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the
    four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated.

Our average daily VaR decreased to $134 million in 2010
    from $218 million in 2009, principally due to a decrease in
    the interest rates category which was primarily due to reduced
    exposures, lower levels of volatility and tighter spreads.

Our average daily VaR increased to $218 million in 2009
    from $180 million in 2008, principally due to an increase
    in the interest rates category and a reduction in the
    diversification benefit across risk categories, partially offset
    by a decrease in the commodity prices category. The increase in
    the interest rates category was primarily due to wider spreads.
    The decrease in the commodity prices category was primarily due
    to lower energy prices.

Year-End VaR and
    High and Low VaR  

1.   
     
    Equals the difference between total VaR and the sum of the VaRs
    for the four risk categories. This effect arises because the
    four market risk categories are not perfectly correlated.

Our daily VaR decreased to $111 million as of
    December 2010 from $153 million as of
    December 2009, principally due to a decrease in the equity
    prices and interest rates categories, partially offset by a
    decrease in the diversification benefit across risk categories.
    The decreases in the equity prices and interest rates categories
    were primarily due to reduced exposures and lower levels of
    volatility.

During the year ended December 2010, the firmwide VaR risk
    limit was exceeded on one occasion in order to facilitate a
    client transaction and was resolved by a reduction in the risk
    position on the following day. Separately, during the year ended
    December 2010, the firmwide VaR risk limit was reduced on
    one occasion reflecting lower risk utilization.

During the year ended December 2009, the firmwide VaR risk
    limit was exceeded on two successive days. It was resolved by a
    reduction in the risk position without a permanent or temporary
    VaR limit increase. Separately, during the year ended
    December 2009, the firmwide VaR risk limit was raised on
    one occasion and reduced on two occasions as a result of changes
    in the risk utilization and the market environment.

86

Table of Contents   

The chart below reflects the VaR over the last four quarters.

The chart below presents the frequency distribution of our daily
    trading net revenues for substantially all

inventory positions included in VaR for the year ended
    December 2010.

As noted above, daily trading net revenues are compared with VaR
    calculated as of the end of the prior business day. Trading
    losses incurred on a single day exceeded our 95%
     one-day  VaR
    on two

occasions during 2010. Trading losses incurred on a single day
    did not exceed our 95%
     one-day  VaR
    during 2009. 

87

Table of Contents   

Sensitivity
    Measures  

As noted above, certain portfolios and individual positions are
    not included in VaR because VaR is not the most appropriate risk
    measure. The market risk of these positions is determined by
    estimating the potential reduction in net revenues of a 10%
    decline in asset value. The market risk related to our
    investment

in the ordinary shares of ICBC excludes interests held by
    investment funds managed by Goldman Sachs.

The table below presents market risk for positions that are not
    included in VaR. These measures do not reflect diversification
    benefits across asset categories and therefore have not been
    aggregated.

1.  
 
         Relates to private and restricted public equity securities,
    including interests in firm-sponsored funds that invest in
    corporate equities and real estate and interests in
    firm-sponsored hedge funds.

2.  
 
         Relates to corporate bank debt, loans backed by commercial and
    residential real estate, and other corporate debt, including
    acquired portfolios of distressed loans and interests in our
    firm-sponsored funds that invest in corporate mezzanine and
    senior debt instruments.

As noted above, VaR excludes the impact of changes in
    counterparty and our own credit spreads on derivatives as well
    as changes in our own credit spreads on unsecured borrowings for
    which the fair value option was elected. The estimated
    sensitivity of our net revenues to a one basis point increase in
    credit spreads (counterparty and our own) on derivatives was a
    $5 million gain as of December 2010. In addition, the
    estimated sensitivity of our net revenues to a one basis point
    increase in our own credit spreads on unsecured borrowings for
    which the fair value option was elected was an $8 million
    gain (including hedges) as of December 2010.

In addition to the positions included in VaR and the sensitivity
    measures described above, as of December 2010, we held
    $3.67 billion of securities accounted for as
     available-for-sale, 
    primarily consisting of $1.69 billion of corporate debt
    securities, the majority of which will mature after five years,
    with an average yield of 6%, $670 million of mortgage and
    other
     asset-backed 
    loans and securities, which will mature after ten years with an
    average yield of 11%, and $637 million of
    U.S. government and federal agency obligations, the
    majority of which will mature after ten years with an average
    yield of 4%. As of December 2009, we held
    $3.86 billion of securities accounted for as

available-for-sale, 
    primarily consisting of $1.64 billion of corporate debt
    securities, the majority of which will mature after five years,
    with an average yield of 6%, $950 million of
    U.S. government and federal agency obligations, the
    majority of which will mature after ten years with an average
    yield of 4%, and $638 million of mortgage and other
     asset-backed 
    loans and securities, the majority of which will mature after
    ten years with an average yield of 15%.

In addition, as of December 2010, we held money market
    instruments, commitments and loans under the William Street
    credit extension program. See Note 18 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for further information about our William Street credit
    extension program.

Additionally, we make investments accounted for under the equity
    method and we also make direct investments in real estate, both
    of which are included in  Other assets  in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition. Direct
    investments in real estate are accounted for at cost less
    accumulated depreciation. See Note 12 to the consolidated
    financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for information on  Other assets. 

88

Table of Contents   

Credit Risk
    Management  

Overview  

Credit risk represents the potential for loss due to the default
    or deterioration in credit quality of a counterparty
    (e.g., an OTC derivatives counterparty or a borrower) or an
    issuer of securities or other instruments we hold. Our exposure
    to credit risk comes mostly from client transactions in OTC
    derivatives and loans and lending commitments. Credit risk also
    comes from cash placed with banks, securities financing
    transactions (i.e., resale and repurchase agreements and
    securities borrowing and lending activities) and receivables
    from brokers, dealers, clearing organizations, customers and
    counterparties.

Credit Risk Management, which is independent of the
     revenue-producing 
    units and reports to the firm s chief risk officer, has
    primary responsibility for assessing, monitoring and managing
    credit risk at the firm. The Credit Policy Committee and the
    Firmwide Risk Committee establish and review credit policies and
    parameters. In addition, we hold other positions that give rise
    to credit risk (e.g., bonds held in our inventory and
    secondary bank loans). These credit risks are captured as a
    component of market risk measures, which are monitored and
    managed by Market Risk Management, consistent with other
    inventory positions.

Policies authorized by the Firmwide Risk Committee and the
    Credit Policy Committee prescribe the level of formal approval
    required for the firm to assume credit exposure to a
    counterparty across all product areas, taking into account any
    enforceable netting provisions, collateral or other credit risk
    mitigants.

Credit Risk
    Management Process  

Effective management of credit risk requires accurate and timely
    information, a high level of communication and knowledge of
    customers, countries, industries and products. Our process for
    managing credit risk includes:

approving transactions and setting and communicating credit
    exposure limits;

monitoring compliance with established credit exposure limits;

assessing the likelihood that a counterparty will default on its
    payment obligations;

measuring the firm s current and potential credit exposure
    and losses resulting from counterparty default;

reporting of credit exposures to senior management, the Board
    and regulators;

use of credit risk mitigants, including collateral and hedging;
    and

communication and collaboration with other independent control
    and support functions such as operations, legal and compliance.

As part of the risk assessment process, Credit Risk Management
    performs credit reviews which include initial and ongoing
    analyses of our counterparties. A credit review is an
    independent judgment about the capacity and willingness of a
    counterparty to meet its financial obligations. For
    substantially all of our credit exposures, the core of our
    process is an annual counterparty review. A counterparty review
    is a written analysis of a counterparty s business profile
    and financial strength resulting in an internal credit rating
    which represents the probability of default on financial
    obligations to the firm. The determination of internal credit
    ratings incorporates assumptions with respect to the
    counterparty s future business performance, the nature and
    outlook for the counterparty s industry, and the economic
    environment. Senior personnel within Credit Risk Management,
    with expertise in specific industries, inspect and approve
    credit reviews and internal credit ratings.

Our global credit risk management systems capture credit
    exposure to individual counterparties and on an aggregate basis
    to counterparties and their subsidiaries (economic groups).
    These systems also provide management with comprehensive
    information on our aggregate credit risk by product, internal
    credit rating, industry, country and region.

Risk Measures and
    Limits  

We measure our credit risk based on the potential loss in an
    event of
     non-payment 
    by a counterparty. For derivatives and securities financing
    transactions, the primary measure is potential exposure, which
    is our estimate of the future exposure that could arise over the
    life of a transaction based on market movements within a
    specified confidence level. Potential exposure takes into
    account netting and collateral arrangements. For loans and
    lending commitments, the primary measure is a function of the
    notional amount of the position. We also monitor credit risk in
    terms of current exposure, which is the amount presently owed to
    the firm after taking into account applicable netting and
    collateral.

89

Table of Contents   

We use credit limits at various levels (counterparty, economic
    group, industry, country) to control the size of our credit
    exposures. Limits for counterparties and economic groups are
    reviewed regularly and revised to reflect changing appetites for
    a given counterparty or group of counterparties. Limits for
    industries and countries are based on the firm s risk
    tolerance and are designed to allow for regular monitoring,
    review, escalation and management of credit risk concentrations.

Stress
    Tests/Scenario Analysis  

We use regular stress tests to calculate the credit exposures,
    including potential concentrations that would result from
    applying shocks to counterparty credit ratings or credit risk
    factors (e.g., currency rates, interest rates, equity
    prices). These shocks include a wide range of moderate and more
    extreme market movements. Some of our stress tests include
    shocks to multiple risk factors, consistent with the occurrence
    of a severe market or economic event. Unlike potential exposure,
    which is calculated within a specified confidence level, with a
    stress test there is generally no assumed probability of these
    events occurring.

We run stress tests on a regular basis as part of our routine
    risk management processes and conduct tailored stress tests on
    an ad hoc basis in response to market developments. Stress tests
    are regularly conducted jointly with the firm s market and
    liquidity risk functions.

Risk
    Mitigants  

To reduce our credit exposures on derivatives and securities
    financing transactions, we may enter into netting agreements
    with counterparties that permit us to offset receivables and
    payables with such counterparties. We may also reduce credit
    risk with counterparties by entering into agreements that enable
    us to obtain collateral from them on an upfront or contingent
    basis  and/or 
    to terminate transactions if the counterparty s credit
    rating falls below a specified level.

For loans and lending commitments, we typically employ a variety
    of potential risk mitigants, depending on the credit quality of
    the borrower and other characteristics of the transaction. Risk
    mitigants include: collateral provisions, guarantees, covenants,
    structural seniority of the bank loan claims and, for certain
    lending commitments, provisions in the legal documentation that
    allow the firm to adjust loan amounts, pricing, structure and
    other terms as market conditions change. The type and structure
    of risk mitigants employed can significantly influence the
    degree of credit risk involved in a loan.

When we do not have sufficient visibility into a
    counterparty s financial strength or when we believe a
    counterparty requires support from its parent company, we may
    obtain
     third-party 
    guarantees of the counterparty s obligations. We may also
    mitigate our credit risk using credit derivatives or
    participation agreements.

Credit
    Exposures  

The firm s credit exposures are described further below.

Cash and Cash Equivalents.   Cash and cash
    equivalents include both interest-bearing and
     non-interest 
    bearing deposits. To mitigate the risk of credit loss, we place
    substantially all of our deposits with highly rated banks and
    central banks.

OTC Derivatives.   Derivatives are reported on a
     net-by-counterparty 
    basis (i.e., the net payable or receivable for derivative
    assets and liabilities for a given counterparty) when a legal
    right of setoff exists under an enforceable netting agreement.

Derivatives are accounted for at fair value net of cash
    collateral received or posted under credit support agreements.
    As credit risk is an essential component of fair value, the firm
    includes a credit valuation adjustment (CVA) in the fair value
    of derivatives to reflect counterparty credit risk, as described
    in Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K. 
    CVA is a function of the present value of expected exposure, the
    probability of counterparty default and the assumed recovery
    upon default.

90

Table of Contents   

The tables below present the distribution of our exposure to OTC
    derivatives by tenor, based on expected duration for
     mortgage-related 
    credit derivatives and generally on remaining contractual

maturity for other derivatives, both before and after the effect
    of collateral and netting agreements. The categories shown
    reflect our internally determined public rating agency
    equivalents.

1.   
     
    Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable
    balances for the same counterparty across tenor categories under
    enforceable netting agreements, and the netting of cash
    collateral received under credit support agreements. Receivable
    and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same
    tenor category are netted within such tenor category.

91

Table of Contents   

Lending Activities.   We manage the firm s
    traditional credit origination activities, including funded
    loans, lending commitments and the William Street credit
    extension program, using the credit risk process, measures and
    limits described above. Other lending positions, including
    secondary trading positions, are
     risk-managed 
    as a component of market risk.

Resale Agreements and Securities Borrowed.   The
    firm bears credit risk related to resale agreements and
    securities borrowed only to the extent that cash advanced to the
    counterparty exceeds the value of the collateral received.
    Therefore, the firm s credit exposure on these transactions
    is significantly lower than the amounts recorded on the
    consolidated statement of financial condition (which represent
    fair value or contractual value before consideration of
    collateral received). The firm also has credit exposure on
    repurchase agreements and securities loaned, which are
    liabilities on our consolidated statement of financial
    condition, to the extent that the value of collateral pledged to
    the counterparty for these transactions exceeds the amount of
    cash received.

Other Credit Exposures.   The firm is exposed to
    credit risk from its receivables from brokers, dealers and
    clearing organizations and customers and counterparties.
    Receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations are
    primarily comprised of initial margin placed with clearing
    organizations and receivables related to sales of securities
    which have traded, but not yet settled. These receivables have
    minimal credit risk due to the low probability of clearing
    organization default and the
     short-term 
    nature of receivables related to securities settlements.
    Receivables from customers and counterparties are generally
    comprised of collateralized receivables related to customer
    securities transactions and have minimal credit risk due to both
    the value of the collateral received and the
     short-term 
    nature of these receivables.

Credit
    Exposures  

The tables below present the firm s credit exposures
    related to cash, OTC derivatives, loans and lending commitments
    associated with traditional credit origination activities, and
    securities financing transactions, broken down by industry,
    region and internal credit rating.

During the year ended December 2010, total credit exposures
    increased by $10.51 billion reflecting an increase in loans
    and lending commitments. This increase was primarily
    attributable to an increase in lending activity and a modest
    increase in average commitment size. During the year ended
    December 2010, incidence of counterparty default and the
    associated credit losses have declined compared with the year
    ended December 2009. The credit quality of the overall
    portfolio as of December 2010 is relatively unchanged
    although OTC derivative exposure to
     non-investment-grade 
    counterparties declined approximately 25% from
    December 2009.

92

Table of Contents   

1.  
 
         Includes approximately $4 billion and $5 billion of
    loans and approximately $49 billion and $39 billion of
    lending commitments as of December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively. Excludes approximately
    $14 billion of loans as of both December 2010 and
    December 2009, and lending commitments with a total
    notional value of approximately $3 billion and
    $6 billion as of December 2010 and December 2009,
    respectively, that are risk managed as part of market risk using
    VaR and sensitivity measures.

2.  
 
         Represents credit exposure, net of securities collateral
    received on resale agreements and securities borrowed and net of
    cash received on repurchase agreements and securities loaned.
    These amounts are significantly lower than the amounts recorded
    on the consolidated statements of financial condition, which
    represent fair value or contractual value before consideration
    of collateral received.

3.  
 
         EMEA (Europe, Middle East and Africa).

93

Table of Contents   

Operational
    Risk  

Overview  

Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from inadequate
    or failed internal processes, people and systems or from
    external events. Our exposure to operational risk arises from
    routine processing errors as well as extraordinary incidents,
    such as major systems failures. Potential types of loss events
    related to internal and external operational risk include:

clients, products and business practices;

execution, delivery and process management;

business disruption and system failures;

employment practices and workplace safety;

damage to physical assets;

internal fraud; and

external fraud.

The firm maintains a comprehensive control framework designed to
    provide a well-controlled environment to minimize operational
    risks. The Firmwide Operational Risk Committee provides
    oversight of the ongoing development and implementation of our
    operational risk policies and framework. Our Operational Risk
    Management department (Operational Risk Management) is a risk
    management function independent of our
     revenue-producing 
    units and is responsible for developing and implementing
    policies, methodologies and a formalized framework for
    operational risk management with the goal of minimizing our
    exposure to operational risk.

Operational Risk
    Management  

Managing operational risk requires timely and accurate
    information as well as a strong control culture. We seek to
    manage our operational risk through:

the training, supervision and development of our people;

the active participation of senior management in identifying and
    mitigating key operational risks across the firm;

independent control and support functions that monitor
    operational risk on a daily basis and have instituted extensive
    policies and procedures and implemented controls designed to
    prevent the occurrence of operational risk events;

proactive communication between our
     revenue-producing 
    units and our independent control and support functions; and

a network of systems throughout the firm to facilitate the
    collection of data used to analyze and assess our operational
    risk exposure.

We combine top-down and
     bottom-up 
    approaches to manage and measure operational risk. From a
     top-down 
    perspective, the firm s senior management assesses firmwide
    and business level operational risk profiles. From a
     bottom-up 
    perspective,
     revenue-producing 
    units and independent control and support functions are
    responsible for risk management on a
     day-to-day 
    basis, including identifying, mitigating, and escalating
    operational risks to senior management.

Our operational risk framework is in part designed to comply
    with the operational risk measurement rules under Basel 2 and
    has evolved based on the changing needs of our businesses and
    regulatory guidance. Our framework includes the following
    practices:

Risk identification and reporting;

Risk measurement; and

Risk monitoring.

Internal Audit performs a review of our operational risk
    framework, including our key controls, processes and
    applications, on an annual basis to ensure the effectiveness of
    our framework.

Risk
    Identification and Reporting  

The core of our operational risk management framework is risk
    identification and reporting. We have a comprehensive data
    collection process, including firmwide policies and procedures,
    for operational risk events.

We have established policies that require managers in our
    revenue-producing units and our independent control and support
    functions to escalate operational risk events. When operational
    risk events are identified, our policies require that the events
    be documented and analyzed to determine whether changes are
    required in the firm s systems
     and/or 
    processes to further mitigate the risk of future events.

In addition, our firmwide systems capture internal operational
    risk event data, key metrics such as transaction volumes, and
    statistical information such as performance trends. We use an
     internally-developed 
    operational risk management application to aggregate and
    organize this information. Managers from both revenue-producing
    units and independent control and support functions analyze the
    information to evaluate operational risk exposures and identify
    businesses, activities or products with heightened levels of
    operational risk. We also provide operational risk reports to
    senior management, risk committees and the Board periodically.

94

Table of Contents   

Risk
    Measurement  

We measure the firm s operational risk exposure over a
    twelve-month time horizon using scenario analyses, together with
    qualitative assessments of the potential frequency and extent of
    potential operational risk losses, for each of the firm s
    businesses. Operational risk measurement incorporates
    qualitative and quantitative assessments of factors including:

internal and external operational risk event data;

assessments of the firm s internal controls;

evaluations of the complexity of the firm s business
    activities;

the degree of and potential for automation in the firm s
    processes;

new product information;

the legal and regulatory environment;

changes in the markets for the firm s products and
    services, including the diversity and sophistication of the
    firm s customers and counterparties; and

the liquidity of the capital markets and the reliability of the
    infrastructure that supports the capital markets.

The results from these scenario analyses are used to monitor
    changes in operational risk and to determine business lines that
    may have heightened exposure to operational risk. These analyses
    ultimately are used to determine the appropriate level of
    operational risk capital to hold.

Risk
    Monitoring  

We evaluate changes in the operational risk profile of the firm
    and its businesses, including changes in business mix or
    jurisdictions in which the firm operates, by monitoring these
    factors at a firmwide, entity and business level. The firm has
    both detective and preventive internal controls, which are
    designed to reduce the frequency and severity of operational
    risk losses and the probability of operational risk events. We
    monitor the results of assessments and independent internal
    audits of these internal controls.

Recent Accounting
    Developments  

See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements in
    Part II, Item 8 of this
     Form 10-K 
    for information about Recent Accounting Developments.

Certain Risk
    Factors That May Affect  

Our
    Businesses  

We face a variety of risks that are substantial and inherent in
    our businesses, including market, liquidity, credit,
    operational, legal, regulatory and reputational risks. For a
    discussion of how management seeks to manage some of these
    risks, see  Overview and Structure of Risk
    Management.  A summary of the more important factors that
    could affect our businesses follows. For a further discussion of
    these and other important factors that could affect our
    businesses, financial condition, results of operations, cash
    flows and liquidity, see  Risk Factors  in
    Part I, Item 1A of this
     Form 10-K. 

Our businesses have been and may continue to be adversely
    affected by conditions in the global financial markets and
    economic conditions generally.

Our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by
    declining asset values. This is particularly true for those
    businesses in which we have net  long  positions,
    receive fees based on the value of assets managed, or receive or
    post collateral.

Our businesses have been and may be adversely affected by
    disruptions in the credit markets, including reduced access to
    credit and higher costs of obtaining credit.

Our
     market-making 
    activities have been and may be affected by changes in the
    levels of market volatility.

Our investment banking, client execution and investment
    management businesses have been adversely affected and may
    continue to be adversely affected by market uncertainty or lack
    of confidence among investors and CEOs due to general declines
    in economic activity and other unfavorable economic,
    geopolitical or market conditions.

Our investment management business may be affected by the poor
    investment performance of our investment products.

We may incur losses as a result of ineffective risk management
    processes and strategies.

Our liquidity, profitability and businesses may be adversely
    affected by an inability to access the debt capital markets or
    to sell assets or by a reduction in our credit ratings or by an
    increase in our credit spreads.

Conflicts of interest are increasing and a failure to
    appropriately identify and address conflicts of interest could
    adversely affect our businesses.

95

Table of Contents   

Group Inc. is a holding company and is dependent for
    liquidity on payments from its subsidiaries, many of which are
    subject to restrictions.

Our businesses, profitability and liquidity may be adversely
    affected by deterioration in the credit quality of, or defaults
    by, third parties who owe us money, securities or other assets
    or whose securities or obligations we hold.

Concentration of risk increases the potential for significant
    losses in our
     market-making, 
    underwriting, investing and lending activities.

The financial services industry is highly competitive.

We face enhanced risks as new business initiatives lead us to
    transact with a broader array of clients and counterparties and
    expose us to new asset classes and new markets.

Derivative transactions and delayed settlements may expose us to
    unexpected risk and potential losses.

Our businesses may be adversely affected if we are unable to
    hire and retain qualified employees.

Our businesses and those of our clients are subject to extensive
    and pervasive regulation around the world.

We may be adversely affected by increased governmental and
    regulatory scrutiny or negative publicity.

A failure in our operational systems or infrastructure, or those
    of third parties, could impair our liquidity, disrupt our
    businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential
    information, damage our reputation and cause losses.

Substantial legal liability or significant regulatory action
    against us could have material adverse financial effects or
    cause us significant reputational harm, which in turn could
    seriously harm our business prospects.

The growth of electronic trading and the introduction of new
    trading technology may adversely affect our business and may
    increase competition.

Our commodities activities, particularly our power generation
    interests and our physical commodities activities, subject us to
    extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and
    environmental, reputational and other risks that may expose us
    to significant liabilities and costs.

In conducting our businesses around the world, we are subject to
    political, economic, legal, operational and other risks that are
    inherent in operating in many countries.

We may incur losses as a result of unforeseen or catastrophic
    events, including the emergence of a pandemic, terrorist attacks
    or natural disasters.

Item 7A.
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market
    Risk  

Quantitative and qualitative disclosures about market risk are
    set forth under  Management s Discussion and Analysis
    of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    Overview and Structure of Risk Management  in Part II,
    Item 7 of this
     Form 10-K. 

96

Table of Contents   

Item 8.    

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data  

INDEX  

97

Table of Contents   

Management s
    Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  

Management of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., together with its
    consolidated subsidiaries (the firm), is responsible for
    establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
    financial reporting. The firm s internal control over
    financial reporting is a process designed under the supervision
    of the firm s principal executive and principal financial
    officers to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the
    firm s financial statements for external reporting purposes
    in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting
    principles.

As of the end of the firm s 2010 fiscal year, management
    conducted an assessment of the firm s internal control over
    financial reporting based on the framework established in
     Internal Control   Integrated Framework  issued
    by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
    Commission (COSO). Based on this assessment, management has
    determined that the firm s internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2010 was effective.

Our internal control over financial reporting includes policies
    and procedures that pertain to the maintenance of records that,
    in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect transactions
    and dispositions of assets; provide reasonable assurances that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally
    accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and
    expenditures are being made only in accordance with
    authorizations of management and the directors of the firm; and
    provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
    detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the
    firm s assets that could have a material effect on our
    financial statements.

The firm s internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2010 has been audited by
    PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public
    accounting firm, as stated in their report appearing on
    page 99, which expresses an unqualified opinion on the
    effectiveness of the firm s internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2010.

98

Table of Contents   

Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

To the Board of Directors and the Shareholders of

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.:

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in
    the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects,
    the financial position of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and its
    subsidiaries (the Company) at December 31, 2010 and
    December 31, 2009, and the results of its operations
    and its cash flows for the fiscal years ended
    December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 and
    November 28, 2008 and for the
     one-month 
    period ended December 26, 2008 in conformity with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
    America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
    material respects, effective internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria
    established in  Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). The
    Company s management is responsible for these financial
    statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
    financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness
    of internal control over financial reporting, included in
    Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting appearing on page 98. Our responsibility is to
    express opinions on these financial statements and on the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting based
    on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with the
    standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States). Those standards require that we plan and
    perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
    the financial statements are free of material misstatement and
    whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
    maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial
    statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence
    supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
    statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
    significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the
    overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal
    control over financial reporting included obtaining an
    understanding of internal control over financial reporting,
    assessing the risk that a material

weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and
    operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
    assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other
    procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
    believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
    opinions.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that
    transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
    financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
    accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the
    company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

/s/
     PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

New York, New York

February 28, 2011

99

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
    EARNINGS 

See page 105 for consolidated financial statements for the
    one month ended December 2008.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

100

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
    FINANCIAL CONDITION 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

101

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
    CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 

1.  
 
         In connection with becoming a bank holding company, the firm was
    required to change its fiscal year-end from November to
    December. The beginning of the year ended December 2009 is
    December 27, 2008.

2.  
 
         Relates primarily to repurchases of common stock by a
     broker-dealer 
    subsidiary to facilitate customer transactions in the ordinary
    course of business and shares withheld to satisfy withholding
    tax requirements.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

102

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH
    FLOWS 

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:

Cash payments for interest, net of capitalized interest, were
    $6.74 billion, $7.32 billion and $32.37 billion
    for the years ended December 2010, December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively.

Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, were
    $4.48 billion, $4.78 billion and $3.47 billion
    for the years ended December 2010, December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively.

Non-cash 
    activities: 

The firm assumed $90 million, $16 million and
    $790 million of debt in connection with business
    acquisitions for the years ended December 2010,
    December 2009 and November 2008, respectively. In
    addition, in the first quarter of 2010, the firm recorded an
    increase of approximately $3 billion in both assets
    (primarily financial instruments owned, at fair value) and
    liabilities (primarily unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings and other liabilities) upon adoption of Accounting
    Standards Update (ASU)
     No. 2009-17, 
     Consolidations (Topic 810)   Improvements to
    Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable
    Interest Entities. 

See page 105 for consolidated financial statements for the
    one month ended December 2008.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

103

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF
    COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 

See page 105 for consolidated financial statements for the
    one month ended December 2008.

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these
    consolidated financial statements.

104

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES  

CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

ONE MONTH ENDED
    DECEMBER 2008  

Consolidated
    Statement of Earnings  

One Month Ended
    December 2008  

Consolidated
    Statement of Comprehensive Loss  

One Month Ended December
    2008  

in millions 

Net loss

$

(780

)

Currency translation adjustment, net of tax

(32

)

Pension and postretirement liability adjustments, net of tax

(175

)

Net unrealized gains on
     available-for-sale 
    securities, net of tax

37

Comprehensive loss

$

(950

)

Consolidated
    Statement of Cash Flows  

One Month Ended
    December 2008  

in millions 

Cash flows from operating activities 

Net loss

$

(780

)

Non-cash 
    items included in net loss

Depreciation and amortization

143

Share-based 
    compensation

180

Changes in operating assets and liabilities

Cash and securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes

(5,835

)

Net receivables from brokers, dealers and clearing organizations

3,693

Net payables to customers and counterparties

(7,635

)

Securities borrowed, net of securities loaned

(18,030

)

Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, net of
    securities purchased under agreements to resell and federal
    funds sold

190,027

Financial instruments owned, at fair value

(192,883

)

Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair value

10,059

Other, net

7,156

Net cash used for operating activities

(13,905

)

Cash flows from investing activities 

Purchase of property, leasehold improvements and equipment

(61

)

Proceeds from sales of property, leasehold improvements and
    equipment

4

Business acquisitions, net of cash acquired

(59

)

Proceeds from sales of investments

141

Purchase of
     available-for-sale 
    securities

(95

)

Proceeds from sales of
     available-for-sale 
    securities

26

Net cash used for investing activities

(44

)

Cash flows from financing activities 

Unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, net

2,816

Other secured financings
     (short-term), 
    net

(1,068

)

Proceeds from issuance of other secured financings
     (long-term) 

437

Repayment of other secured financings
     (long-term), 
    including the current portion

(349

)

Proceeds from issuance of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings

9,310

Repayment of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, including the current portion

(3,686

)

Derivative contracts with a financing element, net

66

Deposits, net

4,487

Common stock repurchased

(1

)

Proceeds from issuance of common stock, including stock option
    exercises

2

Net cash provided by financing activities

12,014

Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents

(1,935

)

Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of period

15,740

Cash and cash equivalents, end of period

$

13,805

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:

Cash payments for interest, net of capitalized interest, were
    $459 million for the one month ended December 2008.

Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, were
    $171 million for the one month ended December 2008.

The accompanying notes are an
    integral part of these consolidated financial statements.

105

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS  

Note 1.  Description
    of Business  

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (Group Inc.), a Delaware
    corporation, together with its consolidated subsidiaries
    (collectively, the firm), is a leading global investment
    banking, securities and investment management firm that provides
    a wide range of financial services to a substantial and
    diversified client base that includes corporations, financial
    institutions, governments and
     high-net-worth 
    individuals. Founded in 1869, the firm is headquartered in New
    York and maintains offices in all major financial centers around
    the world.

In the fourth quarter of 2010, consistent with management s
    view of the firm s activities, the firm reorganized its
    three previous business segments into four new business
    segments: Investment Banking, Institutional Client Services,
    Investing   Lending and Investment Management. Prior
    periods are presented on a comparable basis.

Investment
    Banking  

The firm provides a broad range of investment banking services
    to a diverse group of corporations, financial institutions,
    investment funds and governments. Services include advisory
    assignments with respect to mergers and acquisitions,
    divestitures, corporate defense activities, risk management,
    restructurings and
     spin-offs, 
    and debt and equity underwriting of public offerings and private
    placements, as well as derivative transactions directly related
    to these activities.

Institutional
    Client Services  

The firm facilitates client transactions and makes markets in
    fixed income, equity, currency and commodity products, primarily
    with institutional clients such as corporates, financial
    institutions, investment funds and governments. The firm also
    makes markets and clears client transactions on major stock,
    options and futures exchanges worldwide and provides financing,
    securities lending and prime brokerage services to institutional
    clients.

Investing  
    Lending  

The firm invests in and originates loans to provide financing to
    clients. These investments and loans are typically longer-term
    in nature. The firm makes investments, directly and indirectly
    through funds that the firm manages, in debt securities, loans,
    public and private equity securities, real estate, consolidated
    investment entities and power generation facilities.

Investment
    Management  

The firm provides investment management services and offers
    investment products (primarily through separately managed
    accounts and commingled vehicles, such as mutual funds and
    private investment funds) across all major asset classes to a
    diverse set of institutional and individual clients. The firm
    also offers wealth advisory services, including portfolio
    management and financial counseling, and brokerage and other
    transaction services to
     high-net-worth 
    individuals and families.

Note 2.  Basis
    of Presentation  

These consolidated financial statements are prepared in
    accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States (U.S. GAAP) and include the accounts of
    Group Inc. and all other entities in which the firm has a
    controlling financial interest. Intercompany transactions and
    balances have been eliminated.

In connection with becoming a bank holding company, the firm was
    required to change its fiscal year-end from November to
    December. This change in the firm s fiscal year-end
    resulted in a
     one-month 
    transition period that began on November 29, 2008 and
    ended on December 26, 2008. In April 2009, the
    Board approved a change in the firm s fiscal year-end from
    the last Friday of December to December 31. Fiscal 2009
    began on December 27, 2008 and ended on
    December 31, 2009.

All references to 2010, 2009 and 2008, unless specifically
    stated otherwise, refer to the firm s fiscal years ended,
    or the dates, as the context requires,
    December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 and
    November 28, 2008, respectively. Any reference to a
    future year refers to a fiscal year ending on December 31
    of that year. All references to December 2008, unless
    specifically stated otherwise, refer to the firm s fiscal
    one month ended, or the date, as the context requires,
    December 26, 2008. Certain reclassifications have been
    made to previously reported amounts to conform to the current
    presentation.

106

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 3.  Significant
    Accounting Policies  

The firm s significant accounting policies include when and
    how to measure the fair value of assets and liabilities,
    accounting for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, and
    when to consolidate an entity. See Notes 5 through 8 for
    policies on fair value measurements, Note 13 for policies
    on goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, and below and
    Note 11 for policies on consolidation accounting. All other
    significant accounting policies are either discussed below or
    included in the following footnotes:

Financial Instruments Owned, at Fair Value and Financial
    Instruments Sold, But Not Yet Purchased, at Fair Value

Note 4

Fair Value Measurements

Note 5

Cash Instruments

Note 6

Derivatives and Hedging Activities

Note 7

Fair Value Option

Note 8

Collateralized Agreements and Financings

Note 9

Securitization Activities

Note 10

Variable Interest Entities

Note 11

Other Assets

Note 12

Goodwill and Identifiable Intangible Assets

Note 13

Deposits

Note 14

Short-Term 
    Borrowings

Note 15

Long-Term 
    Borrowings

Note 16

Other Liabilities and Accrued Expenses

Note 17

Commitments, Contingencies and Guarantees

Note 18

Shareholders  Equity

Note 19

Regulation and Capital Adequacy

Note 20

Earnings Per Common Share

Note 21

Transactions with Affiliated Funds

Note 22

Interest Income and Interest Expense

Note 23

Employee Benefit Plans

Note 24

Employee Incentive Plans

Note 25

Income Taxes

Note 26

Business Segments

Note 27

Credit Concentrations

Note 28

Parent Company

Note 29

Legal Proceedings

Note 30

Consolidation  

The firm consolidates entities in which the firm has a
    controlling financial interest. The firm determines whether it
    has a controlling financial interest in an entity by first
    evaluating whether the entity is a voting interest entity or a
    variable interest entity.

Voting Interest Entities.   Voting interest
    entities are entities in which (i) the total equity
    investment at risk is sufficient to enable the entity to finance
    its activities independently and (ii) the equity holders
    have the power to direct the activities of the entity that most
    significantly impact its economic performance, the obligation to
    absorb the losses of the entity and the right to receive the
    residual returns of the entity. The usual condition for a
    controlling financial interest in a voting interest entity is
    ownership of a majority voting interest. If the firm has a
    majority voting interest in a voting interest entity, the entity
    is consolidated.

Variable Interest Entities (VIE).   A VIE is an
    entity that lacks one or more of the characteristics of a voting
    interest entity. The firm has a controlling financial interest
    in a VIE when the firm has a variable interest or interests that
    provide it with (i) the power to direct the activities of
    the VIE that most significantly impact the VIE s economic
    performance and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses of the
    VIE or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could
    potentially be significant to the VIE. See Note 11 for
    further information about VIEs.

Equity-Method 
    Investments.   When the firm does not have a
    controlling financial interest in an entity but can exert
    significant influence over the entity s operating and
    financial policies, the investment is accounted for either
    (i) under the equity method of accounting or (ii) at
    fair value by electing the fair value option available under
    U.S. GAAP. Significant influence generally exists when the
    firm owns 20% to 50% of the entity s common stock or
     in-substance 
    common stock.

In general, the firm accounts for investments acquired
    subsequent to November 24, 2006, when the fair value
    option became available, at fair value. In certain cases, the
    firm applies the equity method of accounting to new investments
    that are strategic in nature or closely related to the
    firm s principal business activities, when the firm has a
    significant degree of involvement in the cash flows or
    operations of the investee or when
     cost-benefit 
    considerations are less significant. See Note 12 for
    further information about
     equity-method 
    investments.

107

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Investment Funds.   The firm has formed numerous
    investment funds with
     third-party 
    investors. These funds are typically organized as limited
    partnerships or limited liability companies for which the firm
    acts as general partner or manager. Generally, the firm does not
    hold a majority of the economic interests in these funds. These
    funds are usually voting interest entities and generally are not
    consolidated because
     third-party 
    investors typically have rights to terminate the funds or to
    remove the firm as general partner or manager. Investments in
    these funds are included in  Financial instruments owned,
    at fair value.  See Notes 6, 18 and 22 for further
    information about investments in funds.

Use of
    Estimates  

Preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires
    management to make certain estimates and assumptions, the most
    important of which relate to fair value measurements, accounting
    for goodwill and identifiable intangible assets and the
    provision for losses that may arise from litigation, regulatory
    proceedings and tax audits. These estimates and assumptions are
    based on the best available information but actual results could
    be materially different.

Revenue
    Recognition  

Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities at Fair
    Value.   Financial instruments owned, at fair value
    and Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair
    value are recorded at fair value either under the fair value
    option or in accordance with other U.S. GAAP. In addition, the
    firm has elected to account for certain of its other financial
    assets and financial liabilities at fair value by electing the
    fair value option. The fair value of a financial instrument is
    the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
    transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market
    participants at the measurement date. Financial assets are
    marked to bid prices and financial liabilities are marked to
    offer prices. Fair value measurements do not include transaction
    costs. Fair value gains or losses are generally included in
     Market making  for positions in Institutional Client
    Services and  Other principal transactions  for
    positions in Investing   Lending. See Notes 5
    through 8 for further information about fair value measurements.

Investment Banking.   Fees from financial
    advisory assignments and underwriting revenues are recognized in
    earnings when the services related to the underlying transaction
    are completed under the

terms of the assignment. Expenses associated with such
    transactions are deferred until the related revenue is
    recognized or the assignment is otherwise concluded. Expenses
    associated with financial advisory assignments are recorded as
     non-compensation 
    expenses, net of client reimbursements. Underwriting revenues
    are presented net of related expenses.

Investment Management.   The firm earns
    management fees and incentive fees for investment management
    services. Management fees are calculated as a percentage of net
    asset value, invested capital or commitments, and are recognized
    over the period that the related service is provided. Incentive
    fees are calculated as a percentage of a fund s or
    separately managed account s return, or excess return above
    a specified benchmark or other performance target. Incentive
    fees are generally based on investment performance over a
     12-month 
    period or over the life of a fund. Fees that are based on
    performance over a
     12-month 
    period are subject to adjustment prior to the end of the
    measurement period. For fees that are based on investment
    performance over the life of the fund, future investment
    underperformance may require fees previously distributed to the
    firm to be returned to the fund. Incentive fees are recognized
    only when all material contingencies have been resolved.
    Management and incentive fee revenues are included in
     Investment management  revenues.

Commissions and Fees.   The firm earns
     Commissions and fees  from executing and clearing
    client transactions on stock, options and futures markets.
    Commissions and fees are recognized on the day the trade is
    executed.

Transfers of Assets 

Transfers of assets are accounted for as sales when the firm has
    relinquished control over the assets transferred. For transfers
    of assets accounted for as sales, any related gains or losses
    are recognized in net revenues. Assets or liabilities that arise
    from the firm s continuing involvement with transferred
    assets are measured at fair value. For transfers of assets that
    are not accounted for as sales, the assets remain in
     Financial instruments owned, at fair value  and the
    transfer is accounted for as a collateralized financing, with
    the related interest expense recognized over the life of the
    transaction. See Note 9 for further information about
    transfers of assets accounted for as collateralized financings
    and Note 10 for further information about transfers of
    assets accounted for as sales.

108

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Receivables from
    Customers and Counterparties  

Receivables from customers and counterparties generally consist
    of collateralized receivables, primarily customer margin loans,
    related to client transactions. Certain of the firm s
    receivables from customers and counterparties are accounted for
    at fair value under the fair value option, with changes in fair
    value generally included in  Market making  revenues.
    See Note 8 for further information about the fair values of
    these receivables. Receivables from customers and counterparties
    not accounted for at fair value are accounted for at amortized
    cost net of estimated uncollectible amounts, which generally
    approximates fair value. Interest on receivables from customers
    and counterparties is recognized over the life of the
    transaction and included in  Interest income. 

Insurance
    Activities  

Certain of the firm s insurance and reinsurance contracts
    are accounted for at fair value under the fair value option,
    with changes in fair value included in  Market making 
    revenues. See Note 8 for further information about the fair
    values of these insurance and reinsurance contracts.

Revenues from variable annuity and life insurance and
    reinsurance contracts not accounted for at fair value generally
    consist of fees assessed on contract holder account balances for
    mortality charges, policy administration fees and surrender
    charges. These revenues are recognized in earnings over the
    period that services are provided and are included in
     Market making  revenues. Interest credited to
    variable annuity and life insurance and reinsurance contract
    account balances and changes in reserves are recognized in
     Other expenses. 

Premiums earned for underwriting property catastrophe
    reinsurance are recognized in earnings over the coverage period,
    net of premiums ceded for the cost of reinsurance, and are
    included in  Market making  revenues. Expenses for
    liabilities related to property catastrophe reinsurance claims,
    including estimates of losses that have been incurred but not
    reported, are included in  Other expenses. 

Foreign Currency
    Translation  

Assets and liabilities denominated in
     non-U.S. currencies 
    are translated at rates of exchange prevailing on the date of
    the consolidated statements of financial condition and revenues
    and expenses are translated at average rates of exchange for the
    period. Foreign currency remeasurement gains or losses on
    transactions in nonfunctional currencies are recognized in
    earnings. Gains or losses on translation of the financial
    statements of a
     non-U.S. operation, 
    when the functional currency is other than the U.S. dollar,
    are included, net of hedges and taxes, in the consolidated
    statements of comprehensive income.

Cash and Cash
    Equivalents  

The firm defines cash equivalents as highly liquid overnight
    deposits held in the ordinary course of business. As of
    December 2010 and December 2009,  Cash and cash
    equivalents  included $5.75 billion and
    $4.45 billion, respectively, of cash and due from banks and
    $34.04 billion and $33.84 billion, respectively, of
    interest-bearing deposits with banks.

109

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Recent Accounting
    Developments  

Transfers of Financial Assets and Interests in Variable
    Interest Entities (Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) 860
    and 810).   In June 2009, the FASB issued
    amended accounting principles that changed the accounting for
    securitizations and VIEs. These principles were codified as ASU
     No. 2009-16, 
     Transfers and Servicing (Topic 860)   Accounting
    for Transfers of Financial Assets  and ASU
     No. 2009-17, 
     Consolidations (Topic 810)   Improvements to
    Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable
    Interest Entities  in December 2009.

ASU
     No. 2009-16 
    eliminates the concept of a qualifying
     special-purpose 
    entity (QSPE), changes the requirements for derecognizing
    financial assets and requires additional disclosures about
    transfers of financial assets, including securitization
    transactions and continuing involvement with transferred
    financial assets. ASU
     No. 2009-17 
    changes the accounting and requires additional disclosures for
    VIEs. Under ASU
     No. 2009-17, 
    the determination of whether to consolidate a VIE is based on
    the power to direct the activities of the VIE that most
    significantly impact the VIE s economic performance
    together with either the obligation to absorb losses or the
    right to receive benefits that could be significant to the VIE,
    as well as the VIE s purpose and design. ASU
     No. 2009-17 
    also requires entities previously classified as QSPEs to be
    evaluated for consolidation and disclosure as VIEs.

ASU Nos.
     2009-16  and
     2009-17  were
    effective for fiscal years beginning after
    November 15, 2009. In February 2010, the FASB
    issued ASU
     No. 2010-10, 
     Consolidations (Topic 810)   Amendments For
    Certain Investment Funds,  which defers the requirements of
    ASU
     No. 2009-17 
    for certain interests in investment funds and certain similar
    entities.

The firm adopted these amendments as of
    January 1, 2010 and reassessed whether it was the
    primary beneficiary of any VIEs in which it had variable
    interests (including VIEs that were formerly QSPEs) as of that
    date. Adoption resulted in an increase to the firm s total
    assets of approximately $3 billion as of
    March 31, 2010, principally in  Financial
    instruments owned, at fair value.  In addition,  Other
    assets  increased by $545 million as of
    March 31, 2010, with a corresponding decrease in
     Financial instruments owned, at fair value,  as a
    result of the consolidation of an entity which holds intangible
    assets. See Note 13 for further information about
    intangible assets.

Upon adoption, the firm elected the fair value option for all
    eligible assets and liabilities of newly consolidated VIEs,
    except for (i) those VIEs where the financial assets and
    financial liabilities are accounted for either at fair value or
    in a manner that approximates fair value under other
    U.S. GAAP, and (ii) those VIEs where the election
    would have caused volatility in earnings as a result of using
    different measurement attributes for financial instruments and
    nonfinancial assets. Adoption did not have a material impact on
    the firm s results of operations or cash flows.

Improving Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements (ASC
    820).   In January 2010,
    the     FASB issued ASU No.
     2010-06, 
     Fair Value     Measurements and
    Disclosures
     (Topic 820)   Improving 
    Disclosures about Fair Value Measurements.  ASU
     No. 2010-06 
    provides amended disclosure requirements related to fair value
    measurements. Certain of these disclosure requirements were
    effective for the firm beginning in the first quarter of 2010,
    while others are effective for financial statements issued for
    reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2010.
    Since these amended principles require only additional
    disclosures concerning fair value measurements, adoption did not
    and will not affect the firm s financial condition, results
    of operations or cash flows.

110

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 4.  Financial
    Instruments Owned, at Fair Value and Financial Instruments Sold,
    But Not Yet Purchased, at Fair Value  

Financial instruments owned, at fair value and financial
    instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair value are
    accounted for at fair value either under the fair value option
    or in accordance with other U.S. GAAP. See Note 8 for
    further information about the fair value option. The table below
    presents the firm s financial instruments owned, at fair
    value, including those

pledged as collateral, and financial instruments sold, but not
    yet purchased, at fair value. Financial instruments owned, at
    fair value included $3.67 billion and $3.86 billion as
    of December 2010 and December 2009, respectively, of
    securities accounted for as
     available-for-sale, 
    substantially all of which are held in the firm s insurance
    subsidiaries.

1.  
 
         Net of cash collateral received or posted under credit support
    agreements and reported on a
     net-by-counterparty 
    basis when a legal right of setoff exists under an enforceable
    netting agreement.

2.  
 
         Includes $4.06 billion and $4.31 billion as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively, of
    money market instruments held by William Street Funding
    Corporation (Funding Corp.) to support the William Street credit
    extension program. See Note 18 for further information
    about the William Street credit extension program.

3.  
 
         Consists of acquired portfolios of distressed loans, primarily
    backed by commercial and residential real estate.

4.  
 
         Includes the fair value of unfunded commitments to extend
    credit. The fair value of partially funded commitments is
    primarily included in  Financial instruments owned, at fair
    value. 

111

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Gains and Losses
    from Market Making and 
    Other Principal Transactions  

The table below presents, by major product type, the firm s
     Market making  and  Other principal
    transactions  revenues. These gains/(losses) are primarily
    related to the firm s financial instruments owned, at fair
    value and financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at
    fair value, including both derivative and nonderivative
    financial instruments. These gains/(losses) exclude related
    interest income and interest expense. See Note 23 for
    further information about interest income and interest expense.

The gains/(losses) in the table are not representative of the
    manner in which the firm manages its business activities because
    many of the firm s market making, client facilitation, and
    investing and lending strategies utilize financial instruments
    across various product types. Accordingly, gains or losses in
    one product type frequently offset gains or losses in other
    product types.

For example, most of the firm s longer-term derivatives are
    sensitive to changes in interest rates and may be economically
    hedged with interest rate swaps. Similarly, a significant
    portion of the firm s cash instruments and derivatives has
    exposure to foreign currencies and may be economically hedged
    with foreign currency contracts.

Note 5.  Fair
    Value Measurements  

The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount that
    would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a
    liability in an orderly transaction between market participants
    at the measurement date. Financial assets are marked to bid
    prices and financial liabilities are marked to offer prices.
    Fair value measurements do not include transaction costs.

The best evidence of fair value is a quoted price in an active
    market. If listed prices or quotations are not available, fair
    value is determined by reference to prices for similar
    instruments, quoted prices or recent transactions in less active
    markets, or internally developed models that primarily use, as
    inputs,
     market-based 
    or independently sourced parameters, including but not limited
    to interest rates, volatilities, equity or debt prices, foreign
    exchange rates, commodities prices and credit curves.

U.S. GAAP has a three-level fair value hierarchy for
    disclosure of fair value measurements. The fair value hierarchy
    prioritizes inputs to the valuation techniques used to measure
    fair value, giving the highest priority to level 1 inputs
    and the lowest priority to level 3 inputs. A financial
    instrument s level in the fair value hierarchy is based on
    the lowest level of any input that is significant to its fair
    value measurement.

The fair value hierarchy is as follows:

Level 1.   Inputs are unadjusted quoted
    prices in active markets to which the firm had access at the
    measurement date for identical, unrestricted assets or
    liabilities.

Level 2.   Inputs to valuation techniques
    are observable, either directly or indirectly.

Level 3.   One or more inputs to valuation
    techniques are significant and unobservable.

See Notes 6 and 7 for further information about fair value
    measurements of cash instruments and derivatives, respectively.

The fair value of certain level 2 and level 3
    financial assets and financial liabilities may include valuation
    adjustments for counterparty and the firm s credit quality,
    transfer restrictions, large
     and/or 
    concentrated positions, illiquidity and bid/offer inputs. See
    Notes 6 and 7 for further information about valuation
    adjustments.

112

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Level 3 financial assets are summarized below.

Financial Assets
    and Financial Liabilities by Level  

The tables below present, by level within the fair value
    hierarchy, financial instruments owned, at fair value and
    financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair
    value, and other financial assets and financial liabilities
    accounted for at fair value under the fair value option. See
    Notes 6 and 7 for further information on the assets

and liabilities included in cash instruments and derivatives,
    respectively, and their valuation methodologies and inputs. See
    Note 8 for the valuation methodologies and inputs for other
    financial assets and financial liabilities accounted for at fair
    value under the fair value option.

1.  
 
         Principally consists of U.S. Department of the Treasury
    (U.S. Treasury) securities and money market instruments as
    well as insurance separate account assets measured at fair value.

2.  
 
         Principally consists of securities borrowed and resale
    agreements. The underlying securities have been segregated to
    satisfy certain regulatory requirements.

3.  
 
         Represents cash collateral and the impact of netting across
    levels of the fair value hierarchy. Netting among positions
    classified in the same level is included in that level.

4.  
 
         Level 3 liabilities were 6.3% of total financial
    liabilities at fair value.

113

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

1.  
 
         Principally consists of U.S. Treasury securities and money
    market instruments as well as insurance separate account assets
    measured at fair value.

2.  
 
         Principally consists of securities borrowed and resale
    agreements. The underlying securities have been segregated to
    satisfy certain regulatory requirements.

3.  
 
         Represents cash collateral and the impact of netting across
    levels of the fair value hierarchy. Netting among positions
    classified in the same level is included in that level.

4.  
 
         Level 3 liabilities were 6.6% of total financial
    liabilities at fair value.

114

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Level 3
    Unrealized Gains/(Losses)  

Cash Instruments.   Level 3 cash
    instruments are frequently economically hedged with level 1
    and level 2 cash instruments
     and/or 
    level 1, level 2 and level 3 derivatives.
    Accordingly, gains or losses that are reported in level 3
    can be partially offset by gains or losses attributable to
    level 1 or level 2 cash instruments
     and/or 
    level 1, level 2 and level 3 derivatives.

Derivatives.   Gains and losses on level 3
    derivatives should be considered in the context of the following:

A derivative with level 1
     and/or 
    level 2 inputs is classified in level 3 in its
    entirety if it has at least one significant level 3 input.

If there is one significant level 3 input, the entire gain
    or loss from adjusting only observable inputs
    (i.e., level 1 and level 2 inputs) is classified
    as level 3.

Gains or losses that have been reported in level 3
    resulting from changes in level 1 or level 2 inputs
    are frequently offset by gains or losses attributable to
    level 1 or level 2 derivatives
     and/or 
    level 1, level 2 and level 3 cash instruments.

The table below presents the unrealized gains/(losses) on
    level 3 financial assets and financial liabilities at fair
    value still held at the period-end. See Notes 6 and 7 for
    further information about level 3 cash instruments and
    derivatives, respectively. See Note 8 for further
    information about other financial assets and financial
    liabilities at fair value under the fair value option.

115

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Gains and losses in the table above include:

Year Ended
    December 2010  

A net unrealized gain on cash instruments of $1.67 billion
    primarily consisting of unrealized gains on private equity
    investments, bank loans and bridge loans and corporate debt
    securities, where prices were generally corroborated through
    sales and partial sales of similar assets in these asset classes
    during the period.

A net unrealized gain on derivatives of $5.18 billion
    primarily attributable to lower interest rates, which are
    level 2 inputs, underlying certain credit derivatives.
    These unrealized gains were substantially offset by unrealized
    losses on currency, interest rate and credit derivatives
    categorized in level 2, which economically hedge
    level 3 derivatives.

Year Ended
    December 2009  

A net unrealized loss on cash instruments of $4.31 billion,
    primarily consisting of unrealized losses on private equity
    investments and real estate fund investments, and loans and
    securities backed by commercial real estate, reflecting weakness
    in the markets for these less liquid asset classes.

A net unrealized loss on derivatives of $1.02 billion,
    primarily attributable to tighter credit spreads on the
    underlying instruments and increases in underlying equity index
    prices. These losses were partially offset by increases in
    commodities prices. All of these inputs are level 2
    observable inputs.

Year Ended
    November 2008  

A net unrealized loss on cash instruments of
    $12.36 billion, primarily consisting of unrealized losses
    on loans and securities backed by commercial real estate,
    certain bank loans and bridge loans, private equity investments
    and real estate fund investments.

A net unrealized gain on derivatives of $5.58 billion,
    primarily attributable to changes in observable credit spreads
    (which are level 2 inputs) on the underlying instruments.

One Month Ended
    December 2008  

A net unrealized loss on cash instruments of $3.19 billion,
    primarily consisting of unrealized losses on certain bank loans
    and bridge loans, private equity investments and real estate
    fund investments, and loans and securities backed by commercial
    real estate. Losses during December 2008 reflected the
    weakness in the global credit and equity markets.

A net unrealized loss on derivatives of $210 million,
    primarily attributable to changes in observable prices on the
    underlying instruments (which are level 2 inputs).

Level 3
    Rollforward  

If a financial asset or financial liability was transferred to
    level 3 during a reporting period, its entire gain or loss
    for the period is included in level 3. Transfers between
    levels are recognized at the beginning of the reporting period
    in which they occur. Accordingly, the tables do not include
    gains or losses that were reported in level 3 in prior
    periods for financial instruments that were transferred out of
    level 3 prior to the end of the period.

See Notes 6 and 7 for further information about cash
    instruments and derivatives included in level 3,
    respectively. See Note 8 for other financial assets and
    financial liabilities at fair value under the fair value option.

116

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The tables below present changes in fair value for all financial
    assets and financial liabilities categorized as 

level 3 as of the end of the period.

1.  
 
         The aggregate amounts include approximately $1.86 billion
    and $1.26 billion reported in
      Non-interest 
    revenues  ( Market making  and  Other
    principal transactions ) and  Interest income, 
    respectively, in the consolidated statement of earnings for the
    year ended December 2010.

2.  
 
         Substantially all is reported in
      Non-interest 
    revenues  ( Market making  and  Other
    principal transactions ) in the consolidated statement of
    earnings.

3.  
 
         Principally resulted from changes in level 2 inputs.

Significant transfers in and out of level 3 during the year
    ended December 2010, which were principally due to the
    consolidation of certain VIEs upon adoption of ASU
     No. 2009-17 
    as of January 1, 2010, included:

Unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings: net transfer into level 3 of
    $1.34 billion, principally due to the consolidation of
    certain VIEs.

Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings: net transfer out of level 3 of
    $1.25 billion, principally due to the consolidation of
    certain VIEs which caused the firm s borrowings from these
    VIEs to become intercompany borrowings which were eliminated in
    consolidation. Substantially all of these borrowings were
    level 3.

Other liabilities and accrued expenses: net transfer into
    level 3 of $587 million, principally due to an
    increase in subordinated liabilities issued by certain
    consolidated VIEs.

117

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

1.  
 
         The aggregate amounts include approximately $(4.69) billion
    and $1.64 billion reported in
      Non-interest 
    revenues  ( Market making  and  Other
    principal transactions ) and  Interest income, 
    respectively, in the consolidated statements of earnings for the
    year ended December 2009.

2.  
 
         Substantially all is reported in
      Non-interest 
    revenues  ( Market making  and  Other
    principal transactions ) in the consolidated statement of
    earnings.

3.  
 
         Principally resulted from changes in level 2 inputs.

Significant transfers in and out of level 3 during the year
    ended December 2009 included:

Other secured financings, Unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings and Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings: net transfer in of $2.73 billion, transfer out
    of $4.03 billion and transfer in of $1.73 billion,
    respectively, principally due to transfers from level 3
    unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings to level 3 other secured financings and
    level 3 unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings related to changes in the terms of certain of these
    borrowings.

Other liabilities and accrued expenses: net transfer into
    level 3 of $953 million, principally due to transfers
    of certain insurance contracts from level 2 due to reduced
    transparency of mortality curve valuation inputs as a result of
    less observable trading activity.

118

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 6.  Cash
    Instruments  

Cash instruments include U.S. government and federal agency
    obligations,
     non-U.S. government 
    obligations, bank loans and bridge loans, corporate debt
    securities, equities and convertible debentures, and other
     non-derivative 
    financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, but
    not yet purchased. See below for the types of cash instruments
    included in each level of the fair value hierarchy and the
    valuation techniques and significant inputs used to determine
    their fair values. See Note 5 for an overview of the
    firm s fair value measurement policies and the fair value
    hierarchy.

Level 1 Cash
    Instruments  

Level 1 cash instruments include U.S. government
    obligations and most
     non-U.S. government 
    obligations, actively traded listed equities and certain money
    market instruments. These instruments are valued using quoted
    prices for identical unrestricted instruments in active markets.

The firm defines active markets for equity instruments based on
    the average daily trading volume both in absolute terms and
    relative to the market capitalization for the instrument. The
    firm defines active markets for debt instruments based on both
    the average daily trading volume and the number of days with
    trading activity.

The fair value of a level 1 instrument is calculated as
    quantity held multiplied by quoted market price. U.S. GAAP
    prohibits valuation adjustments being applied to level 1
    instruments even in situations where the firm holds a large
    position and a sale could impact the quoted price.

Level 2 Cash
    Instruments  

Level 2 cash instruments include commercial paper,
    certificates of deposit, time deposits, most government agency
    obligations, most corporate debt securities, commodities,
    certain
     mortgage-backed 
    loans and securities, certain bank loans and bridge loans, less
    liquid publicly listed equities, certain state and municipal
    obligations and certain money market instruments and lending
    commitments.

Valuations of level 2 cash instruments can be verified to
    quoted prices, recent trading activity for identical or similar
    instruments, broker or dealer quotations or alternative pricing
    sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
    Consideration is given to the nature of the quotations
    (e.g., indicative or firm) and the relationship of recent
    market activity to the prices provided from alternative pricing
    sources.

Valuation adjustments are typically made to level 2 cash
    instruments (i) if the cash instrument is subject to
    transfer restrictions,
     and/or 
    (ii) for other premiums and discounts that a market
    participant would require to arrive at fair value. Valuation
    adjustments are generally based on market evidence.

Level 3 Cash
    Instruments  

Level 3 cash instruments have one or more significant
    valuation inputs that are not observable. Absent evidence to the
    contrary, level 3 cash instruments are initially valued at
    transaction price, which is considered to be the best initial
    estimate of fair value. Subsequently, the firm uses other
    methodologies to determine fair value, which vary based on the
    type of instrument. Valuation inputs and assumptions are changed
    when corroborated by substantive observable evidence, including
    values realized on sales of level 3 assets.

The table below presents the valuation techniques and the nature
    of significant inputs generally used to determine the fair
    values of each class of level 3 cash instrument.

119

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Level 3 Cash Instrument 

Valuation Techniques and Significant Inputs 

Loans and securities backed by commercial real estate  

Collateralized by a single commercial real estate property or a portfolio of properties 

May include tranches of varying levels of subordination

Valuation techniques vary by instrument, but are generally based on discounted cash flow techniques.  

Significant inputs for these valuations include:  

Transaction prices in both the underlying collateral and instruments with the same or similar underlying collateral 

Current levels and changes in market indices such as the CMBX (an index that tracks the performance of commercial mortgage bonds) 

Market yields implied by transactions of similar or related assets 

Current performance of the underlying collateral 

Capitalization rates and multiples

Loans and securities backed by residential real estate  

Collateralized by portfolios of residential real estate 

May include tranches of varying levels of subordination

Valuation techniques vary by instrument, but are generally based on relative value analyses, discounted cash flow techniques or a combination thereof.  

Significant inputs are determined based on relative value analyses, which incorporate comparisons to instruments with similar collateral and risk profiles, including relevant indices such as the ABX (an index that tracks the performance of subprime residential mortgage bonds).  Significant inputs include:  

Home price projections, residential property liquidation timelines and related costs 

Underlying loan prepayment, default and cumulative loss expectations 

Transaction prices in both the underlying collateral and instruments with the same or similar underlying collateral 

Market yields implied by transactions of similar or related assets

Loan portfolios  

Acquired portfolios of distressed loans 

Primarily backed by commercial and residential real estate collateral

Valuations are based on discounted cash flow techniques.  

Significant inputs are determined based on relative value analyses which incorporate comparisons to recent auction data for other similar loan portfolios. Significant inputs include:  

Amount and timing of expected future cash flows 

Market yields implied by transactions of similar or related assets

Bank loans and bridge loans  Corporate debt securities  State and municipal obligations  Other debt obligations

Valuation techniques vary by instrument, but are generally based on discounted cash flow techniques.  

Significant inputs are generally determined based on relative value analyses, which incorporate comparisons both to prices of credit default swaps that reference the same or similar underlying credit risk and to other debt instruments for the same issuer for which observable prices or broker quotations are available.  Significant inputs include:  

Amount and timing of expected future cash flows 

Current levels and trends of market indices such as CDX, LCDX and MCDX (indices that track the performance of corporate credit, loans and municipal obligations, respectively) 

Market yields implied by transactions of similar or related assets 

Current performance and recovery assumptions and, where we use credit default swaps to value the related cash instrument, the cost of borrowing the underlying reference obligation

Equities and convertible debentures 
     
       Private equity investments

Recent third-party investments or pending transactions are
    considered to be the best evidence for any change in fair
    value.  When these are not available, the following valuation
    methodologies are used, as appropriate and available: 
     
        Transactions in similar instruments 
     
        Discounted cash flow techniques 
     
        Third-party appraisals 
     
        Industry multiples and public
    comparables 
     
    Evidence includes recent or pending reorganizations
    (e.g., merger proposals, tender offers, debt
    restructurings) and significant changes in financial metrics,
    such as: 
     
        Current financial performance as
    compared to projected performance 
     
        Capitalization rates and multiples 
     
        Market yields implied by transactions of
    similar or related assets

120

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Cash Instruments
    by Level  

The tables below present, by level within the fair value
    hierarchy, cash instrument assets and liabilities, at fair
    value. Cash instrument assets and liabilities are

included in  Financial instruments owned, at fair
    value  and  Financial instruments sold, but not yet
    purchased, at fair value,  respectively.

1.  
 
         Includes $212 million and $565 million of
    collateralized debt obligations (CDOs) backed by real estate in
    level 2 and level 3, respectively.

2.  
 
         Includes $368 million and $1.07 billion of CDOs and
    collateralized loan obligations (CLOs) backed by corporate
    obligations in level 2 and level 3, respectively.

3.  
 
         Consists of publicly listed equity securities. Includes the
    firm s $7.59 billion investment in the ordinary shares
    of Industrial and Commercial Bank of China Limited, which was
    transferred from level 2 upon expiration of transfer
    restrictions in April 2010.

4.  
 
         Substantially all consists of restricted and less liquid
    publicly listed securities.

5.  
 
         Includes $10.03 billion of private equity investments,
    $874 million of real estate investments and
    $156 million of convertible debentures.

6.  
 
         Includes $35 million of CDOs and CLOs backed by corporate
    obligations in level 3.

7.  
 
         Substantially all consists of publicly listed equity securities.

121

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

1.  
 
         Includes $291 million and $311 million of CDOs and
    CLOs backed by real estate in level 2 and level 3,
    respectively.

2.  
 
         Includes $338 million and $741 million of CDOs and
    CLOs backed by corporate obligations in level 2 and
    level 3, respectively.

3.  
 
         Substantially all consists of publicly listed equity securities.

4.  
 
         Substantially all consists of less liquid publicly listed
    securities.

5.  
 
         Includes $10.56 billion of private equity investments,
    $1.23 billion of real estate investments and
    $79 million of convertible debentures.

6.  
 
         Includes $45 million of CDOs and CLOs backed by corporate
    obligations in level 3.

122

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Level 3
    Rollforward  

If a cash instrument was transferred to level 3 during a
    reporting period, its entire gain or loss for the period is
    included in level 3. Transfers between levels are reported
    at the beginning of the reporting period in which they occur.
    Accordingly, the tables do not include gains or losses that were
    reported in level 3

in prior periods for cash instruments that were transferred out
    of level 3 prior to the end of the period.

The tables below present changes in fair value for all cash
    instrument assets and liabilities categorized as level 3 as
    of the end of the period.

123

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Significant transfers in and out of level 3 during the year
    ended December 2010 included:

Loans and securities backed by commercial real estate: net
    transfer out of level 3 of $844 million, principally
    due to transfers to level 2 of certain loans due to
    improved transparency of market prices as a result of partial
    sales.

Corporate debt securities: net transfer out of level 3 of
    $573 million, principally due to a reduction in financial
    instruments as a result of the consolidation of a VIE which
    holds intangible assets.

Other debt obligations: net transfer out of level 3 of
    $861 million, principally due to a reduction in financial
    instruments as a result of the consolidation of a VIE. The VIE
    holds real estate assets which are included in  Other
    assets. 

Equities and convertible debentures: net transfer out of
    level 3 of $631 million, principally due to transfers
    to level 2 of certain private equity investments due to
    improved transparency of market prices as a result of partial
    sales and initial public offerings.

Significant transfers in and out of level 3 during the year
    ended December 2009 included:

Loan portfolios: net transfer out of level 3 of
    $1.55 billion, principally due to the deconsolidation of
    certain loan portfolios for which the firm did not bear economic
    exposure.

Equities and convertible debentures: net transfer out of
    level 3 of $978 million, principally due to transfers
    to level 2 of certain private equity investments due to
    improved transparency of market prices which are used to value
    these financial instruments. 

124

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Investments in
    Funds That Calculate  

Net Asset Value Per Share 

Cash instruments at fair value include investments in funds that
    are valued based on the net asset value per share (NAV) of the
    investment fund. The firm uses NAV as its measure of fair value
    for fund investments when (i) the fund investment does not
    have a readily determinable fair value and (ii) the NAV of
    the investment fund is calculated in a manner consistent with
    the measurement principles of investment company accounting,
    including measurement of the underlying investments at fair
    value.

The firm s investments in funds that calculate NAV
    primarily consist of investments in firm-sponsored funds where
    the firm co-invests with
     third-party 
    investors. The private equity, private debt and real

estate funds are primarily closed-end funds in which the
    firm s investments are not eligible for redemption.
    Distributions will be received from these funds as the
    underlying assets are liquidated and it is estimated that
    substantially all of the underlying assets of existing funds
    will be liquidated over the next 10 years. The firm s
    investments in hedge funds are generally redeemable on a
    quarterly basis with 91 days notice, subject to a maximum
    redemption level of 25% of the firm s initial investments
    at any quarter-end.

The table below presents the fair value of the firm s
    investments in, and unfunded commitments to, funds that
    calculate NAV.

1.  
 
         These funds primarily invest in a broad range of industries
    worldwide in a variety of situations, including leveraged
    buyouts, recapitalizations and growth investments.

2.  
 
         These funds generally invest in loans and other fixed income
    instruments and are focused on providing private
     high-yield 
    capital for mid- to large-sized leveraged and management buyout
    transactions, recapitalizations, financings, refinancings,
    acquisitions and restructurings for private equity firms,
    private family companies and corporate issuers.

3.  
 
         These funds are primarily multi-disciplinary hedge funds that
    employ a fundamental
     bottom-up 
    investment approach across various asset classes and strategies
    including long/short equity, credit, convertibles, risk
    arbitrage/special situations and capital structure arbitrage.

4.  
 
         These funds invest globally, primarily in real estate companies,
    loan portfolios, debt recapitalizations and direct property.

125

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 7.  Derivatives
    and Hedging Activities  

Derivative
    Activities  

Derivatives are instruments that derive their value from
    underlying asset prices, indices, reference rates and other
    inputs, or a combination of these factors. Derivatives may be
    privately negotiated contracts, which are usually referred to as
     over-the-counter 
    (OTC) derivatives, or they may be listed and traded on an
    exchange
     (exchange-traded). 

Market-Making.    As
    a market maker, the firm enters into derivative transactions
    with clients and other market participants to provide liquidity
    and to facilitate the transfer and hedging of risk. In this
    capacity, the firm typically acts as principal and is
    consequently required to commit capital to provide execution. As
    a market maker, it is essential to maintain an inventory of
    financial instruments sufficient to meet expected client and
    market demands.

Risk Management.   The firm also enters into
    derivatives to actively manage risk exposures that arise from
     market-making 
    and investing and lending activities in derivative and cash
    instruments. In addition, the firm may enter into derivatives
    designated as hedges under U.S. GAAP. These derivatives are
    used to manage foreign currency exposure on the net investment
    in certain
     non-U.S. operations 
    and to manage interest rate exposure in certain fixed-rate
    unsecured
     long-term 
    and
     short-term 
    borrowings, and certificates of deposit.

The firm enters into various types of derivatives, including:

Futures and Forwards.   Contracts that commit
    counterparties to purchase or sell financial instruments,
    commodities or currencies in the future.

Swaps.   Contracts that require counterparties
    to exchange cash flows such as currency or interest payment
    streams. The amounts exchanged are based on the specific terms
    of the contract with reference to specified rates, financial
    instruments, commodities, currencies or indices.

Options.   Contracts in which the option
    purchaser has the right but not the obligation to purchase from
    or sell to the option writer financial instruments, commodities
    or currencies within a defined time period for a specified price.

Derivatives are accounted for at fair value, net of cash
    collateral received or posted under credit support agreements.
    Derivatives are reported on a
     net-by-counterparty 
    basis (i.e., the net payable or receivable for derivative
    assets and liabilities for a given counterparty) when a legal
    right of setoff exists under an enforceable netting agreement.
    Derivative assets and liabilities are included in
     Financial instruments owned, at fair value  and
     Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair
    value,  respectively.

Substantially all gains and losses on derivatives not designated
    as hedges under U.S. GAAP, are included in  Market
    making  and  Other principal transactions. 

126

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The table below presents the fair value of
     exchange-traded 
    and OTC derivatives on a
     net-by-counterparty 
    basis.

The table below presents the fair value, and the number, of
    derivative contracts by major product type on a gross basis.
    Gross fair values in the table below
    exclude the effects of both netting under enforceable

netting agreements and netting of cash collateral received or
    posted under credit support agreements, and therefore are not
    representative of the firm s exposure.

1.  
 
         Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable
    balances for the same counterparty under enforceable netting
    agreements.

2.  
 
         Represents the netting of cash collateral received and posted on
    a counterparty basis under credit support agreements.

127

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Valuation
    Techniques for Derivatives  

See Note 5 for an overview of the firm s fair value
    measurement policies and the fair value hierarchy.

Level 1
    Derivatives  

Exchange-traded 
    derivatives fall within level 1 if they are actively traded
    and are valued at their quoted market price.

Level 2
    Derivatives  

Level 2 derivatives include
     exchange-traded 
    derivatives that are not actively traded and OTC derivatives for
    which all significant valuation inputs are corroborated by
    market evidence.

Level 2 exchange-traded derivatives are valued using models
    that calibrate to market-clearing levels of OTC derivatives.
    Inputs to the valuations of level 2 OTC derivatives can be
    verified to
     market-clearing 
    transactions, broker or dealer quotations or other alternative
    pricing sources with reasonable levels of price transparency.
    Consideration is given to the nature of the quotations
    (e.g., indicative or firm) and the relationship of recent
    market activity to the prices provided from alternative pricing
    sources.

Where models are used, the selection of a particular model to
    value an OTC derivative depends on the contractual terms of and
    specific risks inherent in the instrument, as well as the
    availability of pricing information in the market. Valuation
    models require a variety of inputs, including contractual terms,
    market prices, yield curves, credit curves, measures of
    volatility, prepayment rates, loss severity rates and
    correlations of such inputs. For OTC derivatives that trade in
    liquid markets, model selection does not involve significant
    management judgment because outputs of models can be calibrated
    to
     market-clearing 
    levels.

Price transparency of OTC derivatives can generally be
    characterized by product type.

Interest Rate.   In general, the prices and
    other inputs used to value interest rate derivatives are
    transparent, even for
     long-dated 
    contracts. Interest rate swaps and options denominated in the
    currencies of leading industrialized nations are characterized
    by high

trading volumes and tight bid/offer spreads. Interest rate
    derivatives that reference indices, such as an inflation index,
    or the shape of the yield curve
     (e.g., 10-year 
    swap rate vs.
     2-year  swap
    rate), are more complex and are therefore less transparent, but
    the prices and other inputs are generally observable.

Credit.   Price transparency for credit default
    swaps, including both single names and baskets of credits,
    varies by market and underlying reference entity or obligation.
    Credit default swaps that reference indices, large corporates
    and major sovereigns generally exhibit the most price
    transparency. For credit default swaps with other underliers,
    price transparency varies based on credit rating, the cost of
    borrowing the underlying reference obligations, and the
    availability of the underlying reference obligations for
    delivery upon the default of the issuer. Credit default swaps
    that reference loans,
     asset-backed 
    securities and emerging market debt instruments tend to be less
    transparent than those that reference corporate bonds. In
    addition, more complex credit derivatives, such as those
    sensitive to the correlation between two or more underlying
    reference obligations, generally have less price transparency.

Currency.   Prices for currency derivatives
    based on the exchange rates of leading industrialized nations,
    including those with longer tenors, are generally transparent.
    The primary difference between the transparency of developed and
    emerging market currency derivatives is that emerging markets
    tend to be observable for contracts with shorter tenors.

Commodity.   Commodity derivatives include
    transactions referenced to energy (e.g., oil and natural
    gas), metals (e.g., precious and base) and soft commodities
    (e.g., agricultural). Price transparency varies based on
    the underlying commodity, delivery location, tenor and product
    quality (e.g., diesel fuel compared to unleaded gasoline).
    In general, price transparency for commodity derivatives is
    greater for contracts with shorter tenors and contracts that are
    more closely aligned with major
     and/or 
    benchmark commodity indices.

128

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Equity.   Price transparency for equity
    derivatives varies by market and underlier. Options on indices
    and the common stock of corporates included in major equity
    indices exhibit the most price transparency.
     Exchange-traded 
    and OTC equity derivatives generally have observable market
    prices, except for contracts with long tenors or reference
    prices that differ significantly from current market prices.
    More complex equity derivatives, such as those sensitive to the
    correlation between two or more individual stocks, generally
    have less price transparency.

Liquidity is essential to observability of all product types. If
    transaction volumes decline, previously transparent prices and
    other inputs may become unobservable. Conversely, even highly
    structured products may at times have trading volumes large
    enough to provide observability of prices and other inputs.

Level 3
    Derivatives  

Level 3 OTC derivatives are valued using models which
    utilize observable level 1
     and/or 
    level 2 inputs, as well as unobservable level 3 inputs.

For the majority of the firm s interest rate and currency
    derivatives classified within level 3, the significant
    unobservable inputs are correlations of certain currencies and
    interest rates (e.g., the correlation of Japanese yen
    foreign exchange rates to U.S. dollar interest rates).

For credit derivatives classified within level 3,
    significant level 3 inputs include
     long-dated 
    credit

and funding spreads as well as certain correlation inputs
    required to value credit and mortgage derivatives
    (e.g., the likelihood of default of the underlying
    reference obligations relative to one another).

For level 3 equity derivatives, significant level 3
    inputs generally include equity volatility inputs for options
    that are very
     long-dated 
     and/or  have
    strike prices that differ significantly from current market
    prices. In addition, the valuation of certain structured trades
    requires the use of level 3 inputs for the correlation of
    the price performance for two or more individual stocks.

For level 3 commodity derivatives, significant level 3
    inputs include volatilities for options with strike prices that
    differ significantly from current market prices and prices for
    certain products for which the product quality is not aligned
    with benchmark indices.

Subsequent to the initial valuation of a level 3 OTC
    derivative, the firm updates the level 1 and level 2
    inputs to reflect observable market changes and any resulting
    gains and losses are recorded in level 3. Level 3
    inputs are changed when corroborated by evidence such as similar
    market transactions,
     third-party 
    pricing services
     and/or 
    broker or dealer quotations or other empirical market data. In
    circumstances where the firm cannot verify the model value by
    reference to market transactions, it is possible that a
    different valuation model could produce a materially different
    estimate of fair value.

129

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Valuation
    Adjustments  

Valuation adjustments are integral to determining the fair value
    of derivatives and are used to adjust the mid-market valuations,
    produced by derivative pricing models, to the appropriate exit
    price valuation. These adjustments incorporate bid/offer
    spreads, the cost of liquidity on large or illiquid positions
    and credit valuation adjustments (CVA) which account for the
    credit risk inherent in derivative portfolios. Market-based
    inputs are generally used when calibrating valuation adjustments
    to
     market-clearing 
    levels.

In addition, for derivatives that include significant
    unobservable inputs, the firm makes model or exit

price adjustments to account for the valuation uncertainty
    present in the transaction.

Fair Value of
    Derivatives by Level  

The tables below present the fair value of derivatives on a
    gross basis by level and major product type. Gross fair values
    in the tables below exclude the effects of both netting under
    enforceable netting agreements and netting of cash received or
    posted under credit support agreements both in and across levels
    of the fair value hierarchy, and therefore are not
    representative of the firm s exposure.

1.  
 
         Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable
    balances for the same counterparty under enforceable netting
    agreements.

2.  
 
         Represents the netting of cash collateral received and posted on
    a counterparty basis under credit support agreements.

3.  
 
         Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable
    balances for the same counterparty across levels of the fair
    value hierarchy under enforceable netting agreements.

130

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

1.  
 
         Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable
    balances for the same counterparty under enforceable netting
    agreements.

2.  
 
         Represents the netting of cash collateral received and posted on
    a counterparty basis under credit support agreements.

3.  
 
         Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable
    balances for the same counterparty across levels of the fair
    value hierarchy under enforceable netting agreements.

131

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Level 3
    Rollforward  

If a derivative was transferred to level 3 during a
    reporting period, its entire gain or loss for the period is
    included in level 3. Transfers between levels are reported
    at the beginning of the reporting period in which they occur.
    Accordingly, the table does not include gains or losses that
    were reported in level 3

in prior periods for derivatives that were transferred out of
    level 3 prior to the end of the period.

The table below presents changes in fair value for all
    derivatives categorized as level 3 as of the end of the
    period.

1.   
     
    Primarily attributable to lower interest rates, which are
    level 2 inputs, underlying certain credit derivatives.
    These unrealized gains were substantially offset by unrealized
    losses on currency, interest rate and credit derivatives
    categorized in level 2, which economically hedge
    level 3 derivatives.

Significant transfers in and out of level 3 during the year
    ended December 2010 included:

Interest rates   net and Currencies   net:
    net transfer into level 3 of $306 million and
    $539 million, respectively, principally due to reduced
    transparency of the correlation inputs used to value these
    financial instruments.

Credit   net: net transfer out of level 3 of
    $1.06 billion, principally due to improved transparency of
    correlation inputs used to value certain mortgage derivatives.

There were no significant transfers in and out of level 3
    during the year ended December 2009.

Impact of Credit
    Spreads on Derivatives  

On an ongoing basis, the firm realizes gains or losses relating
    to changes in credit risk on derivatives through changes in
    credit mitigants or the sale or unwind of the contracts.

The net gain/(loss) attributable to the impact of changes in
    credit exposure and credit spreads on derivatives

were $68 million, $572 million, $(137) million,
    and $(188) million for the years ended December 2010,
    December 2009, November 2008 and one month ended
    December 2008, respectively.

Bifurcated
    Embedded Derivatives  

The table below presents derivatives, primarily equity and
    interest rate products, that have been bifurcated from their
    related borrowings. These derivatives are recorded at fair value
    and included in  Unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings  and  Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings.  See Note 8 for further information.

132

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

OTC
    Derivatives  

The following tables present the fair values of OTC derivative
    assets and liabilities by tenor and by product type. In the
    following tables, tenor is based

on expected duration for
     mortgage-related 
    credit derivatives and generally on remaining contractual
    maturity for other derivatives.

1.  
 
         Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable
    balances for the same counterparty across product types within a
    tenor category under enforceable netting agreements. Receivable
    and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same
    product type and tenor category are netted within such product
    type and tenor category.

2.  
 
         Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable
    balances for the same counterparty across tenor categories under
    enforceable netting agreements.

3.  
 
         Represents the netting of cash collateral received and posted on
    a counterparty basis under credit support agreements.

133

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

1.  
 
         Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable
    balances for the same counterparty across product types within a
    tenor category under enforceable netting agreements. Receivable
    and payable balances with the same counterparty in the same
    product type and tenor category are netted within such product
    type and tenor category.

2.  
 
         Represents the netting of receivable balances with payable
    balances for the same counterparty across tenor categories under
    enforceable netting agreements.

3.  
 
         Represents the netting of cash collateral received and posted on
    a counterparty basis under credit support agreements.

134

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Derivatives with
    Credit-Related 
    Contingent Features  

Certain of the firm s derivatives have been transacted
    under bilateral agreements with counterparties who may require
    the firm to post collateral or terminate the transactions based
    on changes in the firm s credit ratings. The table below
    presents the aggregate fair value of net derivative liabilities
    under such agreements (excluding application of collateral
    posted to reduce these liabilities), the related aggregate fair
    value of the assets posted as collateral, and the additional
    collateral or termination payments that could have been called
    at the reporting date by counterparties in the event of a
     one-notch 
    and
     two-notch 
    downgrade in the firm s credit ratings.

Credit
    Derivatives  

The firm enters into a broad array of credit derivatives in
    locations around the world to facilitate client transactions and
    to manage the credit risk associated with market-making and
    investing and lending activities. Credit derivatives are
    actively managed based on the firm s net risk position.

Credit derivatives are individually negotiated contracts and can
    have various settlement and payment conventions. Credit events
    include failure to pay, bankruptcy, acceleration of
    indebtedness, restructuring, repudiation and dissolution of the
    reference entity.

Credit Default Swaps.   Single-name credit
    default swaps protect the buyer against the loss of principal on
    one or more bonds, loans or mortgages (reference obligations) in
    the event the issuer (reference entity) of the reference
    obligations suffers a credit event. The buyer of protection pays
    an initial or periodic premium to the seller and receives
    protection for the period of the contract. If there is no credit
    event, as defined in the contract, the seller of protection
    makes no payments to the buyer of protection. However, if a
    credit event occurs, the seller of protection is required to
    make a payment, which is calculated in accordance with the terms
    of the contract, to the buyer of protection.

Credit Indices, Baskets and Tranches.   Credit
    derivatives may reference a basket of single-name credit default
    swaps or a
     broad-based 
    index. If a credit event occurs in one of the underlying
    reference obligations, the protection seller pays the protection
    buyer. The payment is typically a
     pro-rata 
    portion of the transaction s total notional amount based on
    the underlying defaulted reference obligation. In certain
    transactions, the credit risk of a basket or index is separated
    into various portions (tranches) each having different levels of
    subordination. The most junior tranches cover initial defaults
    and once losses exceed the notional amount of these junior
    tranches, any excess loss is covered by the next most senior
    tranche in the capital structure.

Total Return Swaps.   A total return swap
    transfers the risks relating to economic performance of a
    reference obligation from the protection buyer to the protection
    seller. Typically, the protection buyer receives from the
    protection seller a floating-rate of interest and protection
    against any reduction in fair value of the reference obligation,
    and in return the protection seller receives the cash flows
    associated with the reference obligation, plus any increase in
    the fair value of the reference obligation.

135

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Credit Options.   In a credit option, the option
    writer assumes the obligation to purchase or sell a reference
    obligation at a specified price or credit spread. The option
    purchaser buys the right but not the obligation to sell the
    reference obligation to, or purchase it from, the option writer.
    The payments on credit options depend either on a particular
    credit spread or the price of the reference obligation.

The firm economically hedges its exposure to written credit
    derivatives primarily by entering into offsetting purchased
    credit derivatives with identical underlyings. Substantially all
    of the firm s purchased credit derivative transactions are
    with financial institutions and are subject to stringent
    collateral thresholds. In addition, upon the occurrence of a
    specified trigger event, the firm may take possession of the
    reference obligations underlying a particular written credit
    derivative, and consequently may, upon liquidation of the
    reference obligations, recover amounts on the underlying
    reference obligations in the event of default.

As of December 2010, written and purchased credit
    derivatives had total gross notional amounts of
    $2.05 trillion and $2.19 trillion, respectively, for
    total

net notional purchased protection of $140.63 billion. As of
    December 2009, written and purchased credit derivatives had
    total gross notional amounts of $2.54 trillion and
    $2.71 trillion, respectively, for total net notional
    purchased protection of $164.13 billion.

The table below presents certain information about credit
    derivatives. In the table below:

Fair values exclude the effects of both netting under
    enforceable netting agreements and netting of cash received or
    posted under credit support agreements, and therefore are not
    representative of the firm s exposure;

Tenor is based on expected duration for
     mortgage-related 
    credit derivatives and on remaining contractual maturity for
    other credit derivatives; and

The credit spread on the underlying, together with the tenor of
    the contract, are indicators of payment/performance risk. The
    firm is less likely to pay or otherwise be required to perform
    where the credit spread and the tenor are lower.

1.  
 
         Offsetting purchased credit derivatives represent the notional
    amount of purchased credit derivatives to the extent they
    economically hedge written credit derivatives with identical
    underlyings.

2.  
 
         Comprised of purchased protection in excess of the amount of
    written protection on identical underlyings and purchased
    protection on other underlyings on which the firm has not
    written protection.

136

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Hedge
    Accounting  

The firm applies hedge accounting for (i) certain interest
    rate swaps used to manage the interest rate exposure of certain
    fixed-rate unsecured
     long-term 
    and
     short-term 
    borrowings and certain fixed-rate certificates of deposit and
    (ii) certain foreign currency forward contracts and foreign
     currency-denominated 
    debt used to manage foreign currency exposures on the
    firm s net investment in certain
     non-U.S. operations. 

To qualify for hedge accounting, the derivative hedge must be
    highly effective at reducing the risk from the exposure being
    hedged. Additionally, the firm must formally document the
    hedging relationship at inception and test the hedging
    relationship at least on a quarterly basis to ensure the
    derivative hedge continues to be highly effective over the life
    of the hedging relationship.

Interest Rate
    Hedges  

The firm designates certain interest rate swaps as fair value
    hedges. These interest rate swaps hedge changes in fair value
    attributable to the relevant benchmark interest rate
    (e.g., London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)), effectively
    converting a substantial portion of fixed-rate obligations into
    floating-rate obligations.

The firm applies the
      long-haul 
    method  in assessing the effectiveness of its fair value
    hedging relationships in achieving offsetting changes in the
    fair values of the hedging instrument and the risk being hedged
    (i.e., interest rate risk).

During the three months ended March 2010, the firm changed
    its method of prospectively and retrospectively assessing the
    effectiveness of all of its fair value hedging relationships
    from a
     dollar-offset 
    method, which is a
     non-statistical 
    method, to regression analysis, which is a statistical method.

An interest rate swap is considered highly effective in
    offsetting changes in fair value attributable to changes in the
    hedged risk when the regression analysis results in a
    coefficient of determination of 80% or greater and a slope
    between 80% and 125%.

The
     dollar-offset 
    method compared the change in the fair value of the hedging
    instrument to the change in the fair value of the hedged item,
    excluding the effect of the passage of time. The prospective
     dollar-offset 
    assessment used scenario analyses to test hedge effectiveness
    through simulations of numerous parallel and slope shifts of the
    relevant yield curve. Parallel shifts changed the interest rate
    of all maturities by identical amounts. Slope shifts changed the
    curvature of the yield curve. For both the prospective
    assessment, in response to each of the simulated yield curve
    shifts, and the retrospective assessment, a hedging relationship
    was considered effective if the fair value of the hedging
    instrument and the hedged item changed inversely within a range
    of 80% to 125%.

For qualifying fair value hedges, gains or losses on derivatives
    are included in  Interest expense.  The change in fair
    value of the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged
    is reported as an adjustment to its carrying value and is
    subsequently amortized into interest expense over its remaining
    life. Gains or losses resulting from hedge ineffectiveness are
    included in  Interest expense.  See Note 23 for
    further information about interest income and interest expense.

For the years ended December 2010 and December 2009
    and one month ended December 2008, the gain/(loss)
    recognized on interest rate derivatives accounted for as hedges
    was $1.62 billion, $(10.07) billion and
    $3.59 billion, respectively, and the related gain/(loss)
    recognized on the hedged borrowings and bank deposits was
    $(3.45) billion, $9.95 billion and
    $(3.53) billion, respectively. The hedge ineffectiveness
    recognized on these derivatives for the year ended
    December 2010 was a loss of $1.84 billion. This loss
    consisted primarily of the amortization of prepaid credit
    spreads, and was not material for the year ended
    December 2009 and one month ended December 2008. The
    gain/(loss) excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness
    was not material for the year ended December 2010 and one
    month ended December 2008 and was a loss of
    $1.23 billion for the year ended December 2009.

137

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Net Investment
    Hedges  

The firm seeks to reduce the impact of fluctuations in foreign
    exchange rates on its net investment in certain
     non-U.S. operations 
    through the use of foreign currency forward contracts and
    foreign
     currency-denominated 
    debt. For foreign currency forward contracts designated as
    hedges, the effectiveness of the hedge is assessed based on the
    overall changes in the fair value of the forward contracts
    (i.e., based on changes in forward rates). For foreign
     currency-denominated 
    debt designated as a hedge, the effectiveness of the hedge is
    assessed based on changes in spot rates.

For qualifying net investment hedges, the gains or losses on the
    hedging instruments, to the extent effective, are included in
    the consolidated statements of comprehensive income.

The table below presents the gains/(losses) from net investment
    hedging. The gains/(losses) below are included in  Currency
    translation adjustment, net of tax  in the consolidated
    statements of comprehensive income/(loss).

The gain/(loss) related to ineffectiveness and the gain/(loss)
    reclassified to earnings from accumulated other comprehensive
    income was not material for the years ended December 2010
    and December 2009 and one month ended December 2008.

As of December 2010 and December 2009, the firm had
    designated $3.88 billion and $3.38 billion,
    respectively, of foreign
     currency-denominated 
    debt, included in  Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings  and  Unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings,  as hedges of net investments in
     non-U.S. subsidiaries. 

Note 8.  Fair
    Value Option  

Other Financial
    Assets and Financial 
    Liabilities at Fair Value  

In addition to all cash and derivative instruments included in
     Financial instruments owned, at fair value  and
     Financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair
    value,  the firm has elected to account for certain of its
    other financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value
    under the fair value option.

The primary reasons for electing the fair value option are to:

reflect economic events in earnings on a timely basis;

mitigate volatility in earnings from using different measurement
    attributes (e.g., transfers of financial instruments owned
    accounted for as financings are recorded at fair value whereas
    the related secured financing would be recorded on an accrual
    basis absent electing the fair value option); and

address simplification and
     cost-benefit 
    considerations (e.g., accounting for hybrid financial
    instruments at fair value in their entirety versus bifurcation
    of embedded derivatives and hedge accounting for debt hosts).

Hybrid financial instruments are instruments that contain
    bifurcatable embedded derivatives and do not require settlement
    by physical delivery of
     non-financial 
    assets (e.g., physical commodities). If the firm elects to
    bifurcate the embedded derivative from the associated debt, the
    derivative is accounted for at fair value and the host contract
    is accounted for at amortized cost, adjusted for the effective
    portion of any fair value hedges. If the firm does not elect to
    bifurcate, the entire hybrid financial instrument is accounted
    for at fair value under the fair value option.

138

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Other financial assets and financial liabilities accounted for
    at fair value under the fair value option include:

resale and repurchase agreements;

securities borrowed and loaned within Fixed Income, Currency and
    Commodities Client Execution;

certain other secured financings, primarily transfers of assets
    accounted for as financings rather than sales, debt raised
    through the firm s William Street credit extension program
    and certain other nonrecourse financings;

certain unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, consisting of all promissory notes and commercial
    paper and certain hybrid financial instruments;

certain unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, including prepaid commodity transactions and certain
    hybrid financial instruments;

certain receivables from customers and counterparties, including
    certain margin loans, transfers of assets accounted for as
    secured loans rather than purchases and prepaid variable share
    forwards;

certain insurance and reinsurance contract assets and
    liabilities and certain guarantees;

certain deposits issued by the firm s bank subsidiaries, as
    well as securities held by Goldman Sachs Bank USA (GS Bank
    USA);

certain subordinated liabilities issued by consolidated VIEs; and

in general, investments acquired after
    November 24, 2006, when the fair value option became
    available, where the firm has significant influence over the
    investee and would otherwise apply the equity method of
    accounting.

These financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value
    are generally valued based on discounted cash flow techniques,
    which incorporate inputs with reasonable levels of price
    transparency, and are generally classified as level 2
    because the inputs are observable. Valuation adjustments may be
    made for counterparty and the firm s credit quality.

Significant inputs for each category of other financial assets
    and financial liabilities at fair value are as follows:

Resale and Repurchase Agreements and Securities Borrowed and
    Loaned.   The significant inputs to the valuation
    of resale and repurchase agreements and securities borrowed and
    loaned are the amount and timing of expected future cash flows,
    interest rates and collateral funding spreads. See Note 9
    for further information.

Other Secured Financings.   The significant
    inputs to the valuation of other secured financings at fair
    value are the amount and timing of expected future cash flows,
    interest rates, the fair value of the collateral delivered by
    the firm (which is determined using the amount and timing of
    expected future cash flows, market yields and recovery
    assumptions), the frequency of additional collateral calls and
    the credit spreads of the firm. See Note 9 for further
    information.

Unsecured
     Short-term 
    and
     Long-term 
    Borrowings.   The significant inputs to the
    valuation of unsecured
     short-term 
    and
     long-term 
    borrowings at fair value are the amount and timing of expected
    future cash flows, interest rates, the credit spreads of the
    firm, as well as commodity prices in the case of prepaid
    commodity transactions and, for certain hybrid financial
    instruments, equity prices, inflation rates and index levels.
    See Notes 15 and 16 for further information.

Receivables from Customers and
    Counterparties.   The significant inputs to the
    valuation of certain receivables from customers and
    counterparties are commodity prices, interest rates and the
    amount and timing of expected future cash flows.

Insurance and Reinsurance Contracts.   Insurance
    and reinsurance contracts at fair value are included in
     Receivables from customers and counterparties  and
     Other liabilities and accrued expenses.  These
    contracts are valued using market transactions and other market
    evidence where possible, including
     market-based 
    inputs to models, calibration to
     market-clearing 
    transactions or other alternative pricing sources with
    reasonable levels of price transparency. Significant
    level 2 inputs typically include interest rates and
    inflation risk. Significant level 3 inputs typically
    include mortality or funding benefit assumptions. When
    unobservable inputs to a valuation model are significant to the
    fair value measurement of an instrument, the instrument is
    classified in level 3.

139

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Deposits.   The significant inputs to the
    valuation of deposits are interest rates.

Gains and Losses
    on Other Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities at Fair
    Value  

The  Fair Value Option  columns in the table below
    present the gains and losses recognized as a result of the firm
    electing to apply the fair value option to certain financial
    assets and financial liabilities. These gains and losses are
    included in  Market making  and  Other principal
    transactions  revenues.

The amounts in the table exclude contractual interest, which is
    included in  Interest income  and  Interest
    expense,  for all instruments other than hybrid financial
    instruments. See Note 23 for further information about
    interest income and interest expense. The table also excludes
    gains and losses related to financial instruments owned, at fair
    value and financial instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at
    fair value.

Included in the  Other  columns in the table below are:

Gains and losses on the embedded derivative component of hybrid
    financial instruments included

in unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings and unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings. These gains and losses would have been recognized
    under other U.S. GAAP even if the firm had not elected to
    account for the entire hybrid instrument at fair value.

Gains and losses on secured financings related to transfers of
    assets accounted for as financings rather than sales. These
    gains and losses are offset by gains and losses on the related
    instruments included in  Financial instruments owned, at
    fair value  and  Receivables from customers and
    counterparties. 

Gains and losses on receivables from customers and
    counterparties related to transfers of assets accounted for as
    receivables rather than purchases. These gains and losses are
    offset by gains and losses on the related financial instruments
    included in  Other secured financings. 

Gains and losses on subordinated liabilities issued by
    consolidated VIEs. These gains and losses are offset by gains
    and losses on the financial assets held by the consolidated VIEs.

1.  
 
         Primarily consists of gains/(losses) on certain transfers
    accounted for as receivables rather than purchases and certain
    reinsurance contracts.

2.  
 
         Primarily consists of gains/(losses) on certain insurance and
    reinsurance contracts.

3.  
 
         Primarily consists of gains/(losses) on resale and repurchase
    agreements, securities borrowed and loaned and deposits.

140

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Excluding the gains and losses on the instruments accounted for
    under the fair value option described above,  Market
    making  and  Other principal transactions  in the
    consolidated statements of earnings primarily represents gains
    and losses on  Financial instruments owned, at fair
    value  and  Financial instruments sold, but not yet
    purchased, at fair value. 

Loans and Lending
    Commitments  

The table below presents the difference between the aggregate
    fair value and the aggregate contractual principal amount for
    loans and
     long-term 
    receivables for which the fair value option was elected.

1.   
     
    The aggregate contractual principal exceeds the related fair
    value primarily because the firm regularly purchases loans, such
    as distressed loans, at values significantly below contractual
    principal amounts.

As of December 2010 and December 2009, the fair value
    of unfunded lending commitments for which the fair value option
    was elected was a liability of $1.26 billion and
    $879 million, respectively, and the related total
    contractual amount of these lending commitments was
    $51.20 billion and $44.05 billion, respectively.

Long-term 
    Debt Instruments  

The aggregate contractual principal amount of
     long-term 
    debt instruments (principal and
     non-principal 
    protected) for which the fair value option was elected exceeded
    the related fair value by $701 million and
    $752 million as of December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively. Of these amounts,
    $349 million and $672 million as of December 2010
    and December 2009, respectively, related to unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings and the remainder related to
     long-term 
    other secured financings.

Impact of Credit
    Spreads on Loans and 
    Lending Commitments  

The net gains/(losses) attributable to changes in
    instrument-specific credit spreads on loans and lending
    commitments for which the fair value option was elected were
    $1.85 billion, $1.65 billion, $(4.61) billion and
    $(2.06) billion for the years ended December 2010,
    December 2009 and November 2008 and one month ended
    December 2008, respectively. Changes in the fair value of
    floating-rate loans and lending commitments are attributable to
    changes in instrument-specific credit spreads. For fixed-rate
    loans and lending commitments the firm allocates changes in fair
    value between interest rate-related changes and credit
    spread-related changes based on changes in interest rates.

Impact of Credit
    Spreads on Borrowings  

The table below presents the net gains/(losses) attributable to
    the impact of changes in the firm s own credit spreads on
    borrowings for which the fair value option was elected. The firm
    calculates the fair value of borrowings by discounting future
    cash flows at a rate which incorporates the firm s credit
    spreads.

141

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 9.  Collateralized
    Agreements and Financings  

Collateralized agreements are securities purchased under
    agreements to resell (resale agreements or reverse repurchase
    agreements) and securities borrowed. Collateralized financings
    are securities sold under agreements to repurchase (repurchase
    agreements), securities loaned and other secured financings. The
    firm enters into these transactions in order to, among other
    things, facilitate client activities, invest excess cash,
    acquire securities to cover short positions and finance certain
    firm activities.

Collateralized agreements and financings are presented on a
     net-by-counterparty 
    basis when a legal right of setoff exists. Interest on
    collateralized agreements and collateralized financings is
    recognized over the life of the transaction and included in
     Interest income  and  Interest expense, 
    respectively. See Note 23 for further information about
    interest income and interest expense.

The table below presents the carrying value of resale and
    repurchase agreements and securities borrowed and loaned
    transactions.

1.  
 
         Resale and repurchase agreements are carried at fair value under
    the fair value option. See Note 8 for further information
    about the valuation techniques and significant inputs used to
    determine fair value.

2.  
 
         As of December 2010 and December 2009,
    $48.82 billion and $66.33 billion of securities
    borrowed and $1.51 billion and $6.19 billion of
    securities loaned were at fair value, respectively.

Resale and
    Repurchase Agreements  

A resale agreement is a transaction in which the firm purchases
    financial instruments from a seller, typically in exchange for
    cash, and simultaneously enters into an agreement to resell the
    same or substantially the same financial instruments to the
    seller at a stated price plus accrued interest at a future date.

A repurchase agreement is a transaction in which the firm sells
    financial instruments to a buyer, typically in exchange for
    cash, and simultaneously enters into an agreement to repurchase
    the same or substantially the same financial instruments from
    the buyer at a stated price plus accrued interest at a future
    date.

The financial instruments purchased or sold in resale and
    repurchase agreements typically include U.S. government and
    federal agency, and
     investment-grade 
    sovereign obligations.

The firm receives financial instruments purchased under resale
    agreements, makes delivery of financial instruments sold under
    repurchase agreements, monitors the market value of these
    financial instruments on a daily basis, and delivers or obtains
    additional collateral due to changes in the market value of the
    financial instruments, as appropriate. For resale agreements,
    the firm typically requires delivery of collateral with a fair
    value approximately equal to the carrying value of the relevant
    assets in the consolidated statements of financial condition.

Even though repurchase and resale agreements involve the legal
    transfer of ownership of financial instruments, they are
    accounted for as financing arrangements because they require the
    financial instruments to be repurchased or resold at the
    maturity of the agreement. However,  repos to
    maturity  are accounted for as sales. A repo to maturity is
    a transaction in which the firm transfers a security that has
    very little, if any, default risk under an agreement to
    repurchase the security where the maturity date of the
    repurchase agreement matches the maturity date of the underlying
    security. Therefore, the firm effectively no longer has a
    repurchase obligation and has relinquished control over the
    underlying security and, accordingly, accounts for the
    transaction as a sale.  The firm had no such
    transactions outstanding as of December 2010 or
    December 2009.

142

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Securities
    Borrowed and Loaned Transactions  

In a securities borrowed transaction, the firm borrows
    securities from a counterparty in exchange for cash. When the
    firm returns the securities, the counterparty returns the cash.
    Interest is generally paid periodically over the life of the
    transaction.

In a securities loaned transaction, the firm lends securities to
    a counterparty typically in exchange for cash or securities, or
    a letter of credit. When the counterparty returns the
    securities, the firm returns the cash or securities posted as
    collateral. Interest is generally paid periodically over the
    life of the transaction.

The firm receives securities borrowed, makes delivery of
    securities loaned, monitors the market value of these securities
    on a daily basis, and delivers or obtains additional collateral
    due to changes in the market value of the securities, as
    appropriate. For securities borrowed transactions, the firm
    typically requires delivery of collateral with a fair value
    approximately equal to the carrying value of the securities
    borrowed transaction.

Securities borrowed and loaned within Fixed Income, Currency and
    Commodities Client Execution, are recorded at fair value under
    the fair value option.

Securities borrowed and loaned within Securities Services are
    recorded based on the amount of cash collateral advanced or
    received plus accrued interest. As these arrangements generally
    can be terminated on demand, they exhibit little, if any,
    sensitivity to changes in interest rates.

As of December 2010 and December 2009, the firm had
    $12.86 billion and $3.95 billion, respectively, of
    securities received under resale agreements and securities
    borrowed transactions that were segregated to satisfy certain
    regulatory requirements. These securities are included in
     Cash and securities segregated for regulatory and other
    purposes. 

Other Secured
    Financings  

In addition to repurchase agreements and securities lending
    transactions, the firm funds certain assets through the use of
    other secured financings and pledges financial instruments and
    other assets as collateral in these transactions. These other
    secured financings consist of:

debt raised through the firm s William Street credit
    extension program;

liabilities of consolidated VIEs;

transfers of assets accounted for as financings rather than
    sales (primarily collateralized central bank financings, pledged
    commodities, bank loans and mortgage whole loans); and

other structured financing arrangements.

Other secured financings include arrangements that are
    nonrecourse. As of December 2010 and December 2009,
    nonrecourse other secured financings were $8.42 billion and
    $10.63 billion, respectively.

The firm has elected to apply the fair value option to the
    following other secured financings because the use of fair value
    eliminates
     non-economic 
    volatility in earnings that would arise from using different
    measurement attributes:

debt raised through the firm s William Street credit
    extension program;

transfers of assets accounted for as financings rather than
    sales; and

certain other nonrecourse financings.

See Note 8 for further information about other secured
    financings that are accounted for at fair value. Other secured
    financings that are not recorded at fair value are recorded
    based on the amount of cash received plus accrued interest,
    which generally approximates fair value.

143

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The table below presents information about other secured
    financings. In the table below:

short-term 
    secured financings include financings maturing within one year
    of the financial statement date and financings that are
    redeemable within one year of the financial statement date at
    the option of the holder;

long-term 
    secured financings that are repayable prior to maturity at the
    option of the firm are reflected at their contractual maturity
    dates; and

long-term 
    secured financings that are redeemable prior to maturity at the
    option of the holder are reflected at the dates such options
    become exercisable.

1.  
 
         The weighted average interest rates exclude secured financings
    at fair value and include the effect of hedging activities. See
    Note 7 for further information about hedging activities.

2.  
 
         Includes $8.32 billion and $9.51 billion related to
    transfers of assets accounted for as financings rather than
    sales as of December 2010 and December 2009,
    respectively. Such financings were collateralized by financial
    assets included in  Financial instruments owned, at fair
    value  of $8.53 billion and $9.78 billion as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively.

3.  
 
         Includes $25.63 billion and $15.89 billion of other
    secured financings collateralized by financial instruments owned
    and $10.14 billion and $2.36 billion of other secured
    financings collateralized by financial instruments received as
    collateral and repledged as of December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively.

4.  
 
         Primarily real estate and cash.

The table below presents other secured financings by maturity.

The aggregate contractual principal amount of other secured
    financings
     (long-term) 
    for which the fair value option was elected exceeded the related
    fair value by $352 million and $80 million as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively.

Collateral
    Received and Pledged  

The firm receives financial instruments (e.g., U.S.
    government and federal agency, other sovereign and corporate
    obligations, as well as equities and convertible debentures) as
    collateral, primarily in connection with resale agreements,
    securities borrowed, derivative transactions and customer margin
    loans.

144

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In many cases, the firm is permitted to deliver or repledge
    these financial instruments when entering into repurchase
    agreements, securities lending agreements and other secured
    financings, collateralizing derivative transactions and meeting
    firm or customer settlement requirements.

The table below presents financial instruments at fair value
    received as collateral that were available to be delivered or
    repledged and were delivered or repledged by the firm.

The firm also pledges certain financial instruments owned, at
    fair value in connection with repurchase agreements, securities
    lending agreements and other secured financings, and other
    assets (primarily real estate and cash) in connection with other
    secured financings to counterparties who may or may not have the
    right to deliver or repledge them. The table below presents
    information about assets pledged by the firm.

Note 10.  Securitization
    Activities  

The firm securitizes residential and commercial mortgages,
    corporate bonds, loans and other types of financial assets by
    selling these assets to securitization vehicles
    (e.g., trusts, corporate entities, and limited liability
    companies) and acts as underwriter of the beneficial interests
    that are sold to investors. The firm s residential mortgage
    securitizations are substantially all in connection with
    government agency securitizations.

Beneficial interests issued by securitization entities are debt
    or equity securities that give the investors rights to receive
    all or portions of specified cash inflows to a securitization
    vehicle and include senior and subordinated shares of principal,
    interest
     and/or  other
    cash inflows. The proceeds from the sale of beneficial interests
    are used to pay the transferor for the financial assets sold to
    the securitization vehicle or to purchase securities which serve
    as collateral.

The firm accounts for a securitization as a sale when it has
    relinquished control over the transferred assets. Prior to
    securitization, the firm accounts for assets pending transfer at
    fair value and therefore does not typically recognize gains or
    losses upon the transfer of assets. Net revenues from
    underwriting activities are recognized in connection with the
    sales of the underlying beneficial interests to investors.

For transfers of assets that are not accounted for as sales, the
    assets remain in  Financial instruments owned, at fair
    value  and the transfer is accounted for as a
    collateralized financing, with the related interest expense
    recognized over the life of the transaction. See Notes 9
    and 23 for further information about collateralized financings
    and interest expense, respectively.

The firm generally receives cash in exchange for the transferred
    assets but may also have continuing involvement with transferred
    assets, including beneficial interests in securitized financial
    assets, primarily in the form of senior or subordinated
    securities, and servicing rights that the firm retains at the
    time of securitization. The firm may also purchase senior or
    subordinated securities issued by securitization vehicles (which
    are typically VIEs) in connection with secondary
     market-making 
    activities.

145

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Beneficial interests and other interests from the firm s
    continuing involvement with securitization vehicles are
    accounted for at fair value and are included in  Financial
    instruments owned, at fair value  and are generally
    classified in level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. See
    Notes 5 through 8 for further information about fair value
    measurements.

The table below presents the amount of financial assets
    securitized and the cash flows received on retained interests in
    securitization entities in which the firm had continuing
    involvement.

During the year ended November 2008, the firm securitized
    $14.46 billion of financial assets, including
    $6.67 billion of residential mortgages, $773 million
    of commercial mortgages, and $7.01 billion of other
    financial assets, primarily in connection with CLOs. During the
    year ended November 2008, cash flows received on retained
    interests were $505 million.

During the one month ended December 2008, the firm
    securitized $604 million of financial assets in which the
    firm had continuing involvement, including $557 million of
    residential mortgages and $47 million of other financial
    assets. During the one month ended December 2008, cash
    flows received on retained interests were $26 million.

The table below presents the firm s continuing involvement
    in nonconsolidated securitization entities to which the firm
    sold assets, as well as the total outstanding principal amount
    of transferred assets in which the firm has continuing
    involvement. In this table:

the outstanding principal amount is presented for the purpose of
    providing information about the size of the securitization
    entities in which the firm has continuing involvement and is not
    representative of the firm s risk of loss;

for retained or purchased interests, the firm s risk of
    loss is limited to the fair value of these interests; and

purchased interests represent senior and subordinated interests,
    purchased in connection with secondary
     market-making 
    activities, in securitization entities in which the firm also
    holds retained interests.

1.   
     
    Includes $7.64 billion of outstanding principal amount and
    $16 million of fair value of retained interests as of
    December 2010 related to securitization entities in which
    the firm s only continuing involvement is retained
    servicing which is not a variable interest.

146

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In addition to the interests in the table above, the firm had
    other continuing involvement in the form of derivative
    transactions and guarantees with certain nonconsolidated VIEs.
    The carrying value of these derivatives and guarantees was a net
    liability of $98 million and $87 million as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively. The
    notional amounts of these derivatives and guarantees are
    included in

maximum exposure to loss in the nonconsolidated VIE tables in
    Note 11.

The table below presents the weighted average key economic
    assumptions used in measuring the fair value of retained
    interests and the sensitivity of this fair value to immediate
    adverse changes of 10% and 20% in those assumptions.

1.  
 
         Due to the nature and current fair value of certain of these
    retained interests, the weighted average assumptions for
    constant prepayment and discount rates and the related
    sensitivity to adverse changes are not meaningful as of
    December 2010 and December 2009. The firm s
    maximum exposure to adverse changes in the value of these
    interests is the carrying value of $62 million and
    $93 million as of December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively.

2.  
 
         Constant prepayment rate is included only for positions for
    which constant prepayment rate is a key assumption in the
    determination of fair value.

3.  
 
         The majority of
     mortgage-backed 
    retained interests are U.S. government
     agency-issued 
    collateralized mortgage obligations, for which there is no
    anticipated credit loss. For the remainder of retained
    interests, the expected credit loss assumptions are reflected in
    the discount rate.

The preceding table does not give effect to the offsetting
    benefit of other financial instruments that are held to mitigate
    risks inherent in these retained interests. Changes in fair
    value based on an adverse variation in assumptions generally
    cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in
    assumptions to the change in fair value is not usually

linear. In addition, the impact of a change in a particular
    assumption in the preceding table is calculated independently of
    changes in any other assumption. In practice, simultaneous
    changes in assumptions might magnify or counteract the
    sensitivities disclosed above.

147

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 11.  Variable
    Interest Entities  

VIEs generally finance the purchase of assets by issuing debt
    and equity securities that are either collateralized by or
    indexed to the assets held by the VIE. The debt and equity
    securities issued by a VIE may include tranches of varying
    levels of subordination. The firm s involvement with VIEs
    includes securitization of financial assets, as described in
    Note 10, and investments in and loans to other types of
    VIEs, as described below. See Note 10 for additional
    information about securitization activities, including the
    definition of beneficial interests. See Note 3 for the
    firm s consolidation policies, including the definition of
    a VIE.

The firm is principally involved with VIEs through the following
    business activities:

Mortgage-Backed 
    VIEs and Corporate CDO and CLO VIEs.   The firm
    sells residential and commercial mortgage loans and securities
    to
     mortgage-backed 
    VIEs and corporate bonds and loans to corporate CDO and CLO VIEs
    and may retain beneficial interests in the assets sold to these
    VIEs. The firm purchases and sells beneficial interests issued
    by
     mortgage-backed 
    and corporate CDO and CLO VIEs in connection with
     market-making 
    activities. In addition, the firm may enter into derivatives
    with certain of these VIEs, primarily interest rate swaps, which
    are typically not variable interests. The firm generally enters
    into derivatives with other counterparties to mitigate its risk
    from derivatives with these VIEs.

Certain
     mortgage-backed 
    and corporate CDO and CLO VIEs, usually referred to as synthetic
    CDOs or
     credit-linked 
    note VIEs, synthetically create the exposure for the
    beneficial interests they issue by entering into credit
    derivatives, rather than purchasing the underlying assets. These
    credit derivatives may reference a single asset, an index, or a
    portfolio/basket of assets or indices. See Note 7 for
    further information on credit derivatives. These VIEs use the
    funds from the sale of beneficial interests and the premiums
    received from credit derivative counterparties to purchase
    securities which serve to collateralize the beneficial interest
    holders
     and/or  the
    credit derivative counterparty. These VIEs may enter into other
    derivatives, primarily interest rate swaps, which are typically
    not variable interests. The firm may be a counterparty to
    derivatives with these VIEs and generally enters into
    derivatives with other counterparties to mitigate its risk.

Real Estate,
     Credit-Related 
    and Other Investing VIEs.   The firm purchases
    equity and debt securities issued by and makes loans to VIEs
    that hold real estate, performing and nonperforming debt,
    distressed loans and equity securities.

Other
     Asset-Backed 
    VIEs.   The firm structures VIEs that issue notes
    to clients and purchases and sells beneficial interests issued
    by other
     asset-backed 
    VIEs in connection with
     market-making 
    activities. In addition, the firm may enter into derivatives
    with certain other
     asset-backed 
    VIEs, primarily total return swaps on the collateral assets held
    by these VIEs under which the firm pays the VIE the return due
    to the note holders and receives the return on the collateral
    assets owned by the VIE. The firm generally can be removed as
    the total return swap counterparty. The firm generally enters
    into derivatives with other counterparties to mitigate its risk
    from derivatives with these VIEs. The firm typically does not
    sell assets to the other
     asset-backed 
    VIEs it structures.

Power-Related VIEs.   The firm purchases debt
    and equity securities issued by and may provide guarantees to
    VIEs that hold power-related assets. The firm typically does not
    sell assets to or enter into derivatives with these VIEs.

Investment Funds.   The firm purchases equity
    securities issued by and may provide guarantees to certain of
    the investment funds it manages. The firm typically does not
    sell assets to or enter into derivatives with these VIEs.

Principal-Protected Note VIEs.   The firm
    structures VIEs that issue principal-protected notes to clients.
    These VIEs own portfolios of assets, principally with exposure
    to hedge funds. Substantially all of the principal protection on
    the notes issued by these VIEs is provided by the asset
    portfolio rebalancing that is required under the terms of the
    notes. The firm enters into total return swaps with these VIEs
    under which the firm pays the VIE the return due to the
    principal-protected note holders and receives the return on the
    assets owned by the VIE. The firm may enter into derivatives
    with other counterparties to mitigate the risk it has from the
    derivatives it enters into with these VIEs. The firm also
    obtains funding through these VIEs. These VIEs were consolidated
    by the firm upon adoption of changes to U.S. GAAP on
    January 1, 2010. See  Recent Accounting
    Developments  in Note 3 for further information.

148

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Municipal Bond Securitizations.   The firm sells
    municipal securities to VIEs that issue
     short-term 
    qualifying
     tax-exempt 
    securities. The firm consolidates these VIEs because it owns the
    residual interests, which allows the firm to make decisions that
    significantly impact the economic performance of these VIEs.

VIE Consolidation
    Analysis  

A variable interest in a VIE is an investment (e.g., debt
    or equity securities) or other interest (e.g., derivatives
    or loans and lending commitments) in a VIE that will absorb
    portions of the VIE s expected losses or receive portions
    of the VIE s expected residual returns.

The firm s variable interests in VIEs include senior and
    subordinated debt in residential and commercial
     mortgage-backed 
    and other
     asset-backed 
    securitization entities, CDOs and CLOs; loans and lending
    commitments; limited and general partnership interests;
    preferred and common equity; derivatives that may include
    foreign currency, equity
     and/or 
    credit risk; guarantees; and certain of the fees the firm
    receives from investment funds. Certain interest rate, foreign
    currency and credit derivatives the firm enters into with VIEs
    are not variable interests because they create rather than
    absorb risk.

The enterprise with a controlling financial interest in a VIE is
    known as the primary beneficiary and consolidates the VIE. The
    firm determines whether it is the primary beneficiary of a VIE
    by performing an analysis that principally considers:

which variable interest holder has the power to direct the
    activities of the VIE that most significantly impact the
    VIE s economic performance;

which variable interest holder has the obligation to absorb
    losses or the right to receive benefits from the VIE that could
    potentially be significant to the VIE;

the VIE s purpose and design, including the risks the VIE
    was designed to create and pass through to its variable interest
    holders;

the VIE s capital structure;

the terms between the VIE and its variable interest holders and
    other parties involved with the VIE; and

related party relationships.

The firm reassesses its initial evaluation of whether an entity
    is a VIE when certain reconsideration events occur. The firm
    reassesses its determination of whether it is the primary
    beneficiary of a VIE on an ongoing basis based on current facts
    and circumstances.

Nonconsolidated
    VIEs  

The firm s exposure to the obligations of VIEs is generally
    limited to its interests in these entities. In certain
    instances, the firm provides guarantees, including derivative
    guarantees, to VIEs or holders of variable interests in VIEs.

The tables below present information about nonconsolidated VIEs
    in which the firm holds variable interests. Nonconsolidated VIEs
    are aggregated based on principal business activity. The nature
    of the firm s variable interests can take different forms,
    as described in the rows under maximum exposure to loss. In the
    tables below:

The maximum exposure to loss excludes the benefit of offsetting
    financial instruments that are held to mitigate the risks
    associated with these variable interests.

For retained and purchased interests and loans and investments,
    the maximum exposure to loss is the carrying value of these
    interests.

For commitments and guarantees, and derivatives, the maximum
    exposure to loss is the notional amount, which does not
    represent anticipated losses and also has not been reduced by
    unrealized losses already recorded. As a result, the maximum
    exposure to loss exceeds liabilities recorded for commitments
    and guarantees, and derivatives provided to VIEs.

For December 2010, the table includes nonconsolidated VIEs
    in which the firm holds variable interests (and to which the
    firm sold assets and has continuing involvement as of
    December 2010) that were formerly considered to be
    QSPEs prior to the changes in U.S. GAAP on
    January 1, 2010. See  Recent Accounting
    Developments  in Note 3 for further information.

The carrying values of the firm s variable interests in
    nonconsolidated VIEs are included in the consolidated statement
    of financial condition as follows:

Substantially all assets and liabilities held by the firm
    related to
     mortgage-backed, 
    corporate CDO and CLO and other
     asset-backed 
    VIEs and investment funds are included in  Financial
    instruments owned, at fair value  and  Financial
    instruments sold, but not yet purchased, at fair value, 
    respectively.

Assets and liabilities held by the firm related to real estate,
     credit-related 
    and other investing VIEs are primarily included in
     Financial instruments owned, at fair value  and
     Payables to customers and counterparties  and
     Other liabilities and accrued expenses,  respectively.

149

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Assets and liabilities held by the firm related to power-related
    VIEs are primarily included in  Other

assets  and  Other liabilities and accrued
    expenses,  respectively.

1.  
 
         The aggregate amounts include $4.52 billion and
    $4.66 billion as of December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively, related to guarantees and
    derivative transactions with VIEs to which the firm transferred
    assets.

2.  
 
         Assets in VIE and maximum exposure to loss include
    $6.14 billion and $3.25 billion, respectively, related
    to CDOs backed by mortgage obligations as of December 2010.

3.  
 
         Assets in VIE, carrying value of liabilities and maximum
    exposure to loss exclude $3.97 billion associated with
    guarantees related to the firm s performance under
    borrowings from these VIEs, which are recorded as liabilities.
    Substantially all of the $1.36 billion of liabilities
    relate to additional borrowings from these VIEs.

150

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Consolidated
    VIEs  

The tables below present the carrying amount and classification
    of assets and liabilities in consolidated VIEs, excluding the
    benefit of offsetting financial instruments that are held to
    mitigate the risks associated with the firm s variable
    interests. Consolidated VIEs are aggregated based on principal
    business activity and their assets and liabilities are presented
    net of intercompany eliminations. The majority of the assets in
    principal-protected notes VIEs are intercompany and are
    eliminated in consolidation.

Substantially all the assets in consolidated VIEs can only be
    used to settle obligations of the VIE.

For December 2010, the table below excludes VIEs in which
    the firm holds a majority voting interest if (i) the VIE
    meets the definition of a business and (ii) the VIE s
    assets can be used for purposes other than the

settlement of its obligations. For December 2009, prior to
    the changes in U.S. GAAP, the table below excludes VIEs in
    which the firm holds a majority voting interest unless the
    activities of the VIE are primarily related to securitization,
     asset-backed 
    financings or single-lessee leasing arrangements. The increase
    in total assets of consolidated VIEs from December 2009 to
    December 2010 is primarily related to (i) VIEs that
    are required to be disclosed in accordance with ASU
     No. 2009-17 
    but that were not required to be disclosed under previous
    U.S. GAAP, and (ii) VIEs that were consolidated by the
    firm upon adoption of changes in U.S. GAAP. See
     Recent Accounting Developments  in Note 3 for
    further information. The liabilities of real estate,
     credit-related 
    and other investing VIEs and CDOs,
     mortgage-backed 
    and other
     asset-backed 
    VIEs do not have recourse to the general credit of the firm.

151

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 12.  Other
    Assets  

Other assets are generally less liquid,
     non-financial 
    assets. The table below presents other assets by type.

1.  
 
         Net of accumulated depreciation and amortization of
    $7.87 billion and $7.28 billion as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively.

2.  
 
         See Note 13 for further information about goodwill and
    identifiable intangible assets.

3.  
 
         See Note 26 for further information about income taxes.

4.  
 
         Excludes investments of $3.77 billion and
    $2.95 billion accounted for at fair value under the fair
    value option as of December 2010 and December 2009,
    respectively, which are included in  Financial instruments
    owned, at fair value.  See Note 8 for further
    information.

Property,
    Leasehold Improvements and Equipment  

Property, leasehold improvements and equipment included
    $6.44 billion and $5.90 billion as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively, related
    to property, leasehold improvements and equipment that the firm
    uses in connection with its operations. The remainder is held by
    investment entities, including VIEs, consolidated by the firm.

Substantially all property and equipment are depreciated on a
    straight-line basis over the useful life of the asset.

Leasehold improvements are amortized on a
     straight-line 
    basis over the useful life of the improvement or the term of the
    lease, whichever is shorter.

Certain costs of software developed or obtained for internal use
    are capitalized and amortized on a straight-line basis over the
    useful life of the software.

152

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Property, leasehold improvements and equipment are tested for
    impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest
    that an asset s or asset group s carrying value may
    not be fully recoverable. The firm s policy for impairment
    testing of property, leasehold improvements and equipment is the
    same as is used for identifiable intangible assets with finite
    lives. See Note 13 for further information.

Note 13.  Goodwill
    and Identifiable Intangible Assets  

The tables below present, by operating segment, the carrying
    values of goodwill and identifiable intangible assets, which are
    included in  Other assets. 

Goodwill  

Goodwill is the cost of acquired companies in excess of the fair
    value of identifiable net assets at acquisition date.

The reorganization of the firm s segments in 2010 resulted
    in the reallocation of assets, including goodwill, and
    liabilities across reporting units. See Note 27 for further
    information on segments.

Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or more frequently if
    events occur or circumstances change that indicate an impairment
    may exist.

The goodwill impairment test consists of two steps.

The first step compares the fair value of each reporting unit
    with its estimated net book value (including goodwill and
    identified intangible assets). If the reporting unit s fair
    value exceeds its estimated net book value, goodwill is not
    impaired.

If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit is less than its
    estimated net book value, the second step of the goodwill
    impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment
    loss, if any. An impairment loss is equal to the excess of the
    carrying amount of goodwill over its fair value.

Goodwill was tested for impairment during the fourth quarter of
    2010 and no impairment was identified.

To estimate the fair value of each reporting unit, both relative
    value and residual income valuation techniques are used because
    the firm believes market participants would use these techniques
    to value the firm s reporting units.

Relative value techniques apply average observable
     price-to-earnings 
    multiples of comparable competitors to certain reporting
    units  net earnings. For other reporting units, fair value
    is estimated using
     price-to-book 
    multiples based on residual income techniques, which compare
    excess reporting unit returns on equity to the firm s cost
    of equity capital over a
     long-term 
    stable growth period. The net book value of each reporting unit
    reflects the estimated amount of shareholders  equity
    required to support the activities of the reporting unit.

153

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Identifiable
    Intangible Assets  

The table below presents the gross carrying amount, accumulated
    amortization and net carrying amount of

identifiable intangible assets and their weighted average
    remaining lives.

1.  
 
         Represents television broadcast royalties held by a VIE
    consolidated upon adoption of ASU
     No. 2009-17. 

2.  
 
         Primarily includes commodity-related customer contracts and
    relationships, permits and access rights acquired during the
    first quarter of 2010.

3.  
 
         Represents value of business acquired related to the firm s
    insurance businesses.

154

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Substantially all of the firm s identifiable intangible
    assets are considered to have finite lives and are amortized
    over their estimated lives or, in the case of insurance
    contracts, in proportion to estimated gross profits or premium
    revenues. Amortization expense for identifiable intangible
    assets is included in  Depreciation and amortization. 

The table below presents amortization expense for identifiable
    intangible assets for the periods presented, and the estimated
    future amortization expense through 2015 for identifiable
    intangible assets as of December 2010.

1.   
     
    Includes an impairment loss of $305 million on the
    firm s NYSE DMM rights.

Identifiable intangible assets are tested for recoverability
    whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that an
    asset s or asset group s carrying value may not be
    recoverable.

If a recoverability test is necessary, the carrying value of an
    asset or asset group is compared to the total of the
    undiscounted cash flows expected to be received over the
    remaining useful life and from the disposition of the asset or
    asset group.

If the total of the undiscounted cash flows exceeds the carrying
    value, the asset or asset group is not impaired.

If the total of the undiscounted cash flows is less than the
    carrying value, the asset or asset group is not fully
    recoverable and an impairment loss is recognized as the
    difference between the carrying amount of the asset or asset
    group and its estimated fair value.

During the fourth quarter of 2010, as a result of continuing
    weak operating results in the firm s NYSE DMM business, the
    firm tested its NYSE DMM rights for impairment in accordance
    with ASC 360. Because the carrying value of the firm s NYSE
    DMM rights exceeded the projected undiscounted cash flows over
    the estimated remaining useful life of the firm s NYSE DMM
    rights, the firm determined that the rights were impaired. The
    firm recorded an impairment loss of $305 million, which was
    included in  Depreciation and amortization  in the
    firm s Institutional Client Services segment in the fourth
    quarter of 2010. This impairment loss represented the excess of
    the carrying value of the firm s NYSE DMM rights over their
    estimated fair value. The firm estimated this fair value, which
    is a level 3 measurement, using a relative value analysis
    which incorporated a comparison to another DMM portfolio that
    was transacted between third parties.

155

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 14.  Deposits  

The tables below present deposits held in U.S. and
     non-U.S. offices 
    and the maturities of time deposits. Substantially all
    U.S. deposits were held at GS Bank USA and were
    interest-bearing and substantially all

non-U.S. deposits 
    were held at Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC (GS Bank
    Europe) and were
     interest-bearing. 

Note 15.  Short-Term 
    Borrowings  

Short-term 
    borrowings were comprised of the following:

See Note 9 for further information about other secured
    financings.

Unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings include the portion of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings maturing within one year of the financial statement
    date and unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the financial
    statement date at the option of the holder.

The firm accounts for promissory notes, commercial paper and
    certain hybrid financial instruments at fair value under the
    fair value option. See Note 8 for further information about
    unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings that are accounted for at fair value.
     Short-term 
    borrowings that are not recorded at fair value are recorded
    based on the amount of cash received plus accrued interest, and
    such amounts approximate fair value due to the
     short-term 
    nature of the obligations.

156

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The table below presents unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings.

1.  
 
         Includes $10.43 billion and $1.73 billion as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively, issued
    by Group Inc. and guaranteed by the Federal Deposit
    Insurance Corporation (FDIC) under the Temporary Liquidity
    Guarantee Program (TLGP).

2.  
 
         Includes $24.46 billion and $17.05 billion as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively, issued
    by Group Inc.

3.  
 
         The weighted average interest rates for these borrowings include
    the effect of hedging activities and exclude financial
    instruments accounted for at fair value under the fair value
    option. See Note 7 for further information about hedging
    activities.

Note 16.  Long-Term 
    Borrowings  

Long-term 
    borrowings were comprised of the following:

See Note 9 for further information about other secured
    financings. The table below presents unsecured

long-term 
    borrowings extending through 2060 and consisting principally of
    senior borrowings.

157

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The table below presents unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings by maturity date. In the table below:

unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings maturing within one year of the financial statement
    date and unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are redeemable within one year of the financial
    statement date at the option of the holder are included as
    unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings;

unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are repayable prior to maturity at the option of
    the firm are reflected at their contractual maturity dates; and

unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings that are redeemable prior to maturity at the option
    of the holder are reflected at the dates such options become
    exercisable.

The aggregate contractual principal amount of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings (principal and
     non-principal 
    protected) for which the fair value option was elected exceeded
    the related fair value by $349 million and
    $672 million as of December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively.

The firm designates certain derivatives as fair value hedges to
    effectively convert a substantial portion of its fixed-rate
    unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings which are not accounted for at fair value into
    floating-rate obligations. Accordingly, excluding the cumulative
    impact of changes in the firm s credit spreads, the
    carrying value of unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings approximated fair value as of December 2010 and
    December 2009. For unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings for which the firm did not elect the fair value
    option, the

cumulative impact due to changes in the firm s own credit
    spreads would be a reduction in the carrying value of total
    unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings of less than 1% as of both December 2010 and
    December 2009. See Note 7 for further information
    about hedging activities.

The table below presents unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings, after giving effect to hedging activities that
    converted a substantial portion of fixed-rate obligations to
    floating-rate obligations.

1.   
     
    The weighted average interest rates on the aggregate amounts
    were 1.90% (5.69% related to fixed-rate obligations and 1.74%
    related to floating-rate obligations) and 1.42% (5.49% related
    to fixed-rate obligations and 1.32% related to floating-rate
    obligations) as of December 2010 and December 2009,
    respectively. These rates exclude financial instruments
    accounted for at fair value under the fair value option.

158

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Subordinated
    Borrowings  

Unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings include subordinated debt and junior subordinated
    debt. Junior subordinated debt is junior in right of payment to
    other subordinated borrowings, which are junior to senior
    borrowings. As of

December 2010 and December 2009, subordinated debt had
    maturities ranging from 2012 to 2038 and 2017 to 2038,
    respectively. The table below presents subordinated borrowings.

1.  
 
         Weighted average interest rate after giving effect to fair value
    hedges used to convert these fixed-rate obligations into
    floating-rate obligations. See Note 7 for further
    information about hedging activities. See below for information
    about interest rates on junior subordinated debt.

2.  
 
         As of December 2010, the par amount and carrying amount
    include $13.81 billion and $16.44 billion,
    respectively, of subordinated debt issued by Group Inc. As
    of December 2009, the par amount and carrying amount
    include $13.78 billion and $15.30 billion,
    respectively, of subordinated debt issued by Group Inc.

Junior
    Subordinated Debt  

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued to APEX
    Trusts.   In 2007, Group Inc. issued a total
    of $2.25 billion of remarketable junior subordinated debt
    to Goldman Sachs Capital II and Goldman Sachs
    Capital III (APEX Trusts), Delaware statutory trusts. The
    APEX Trusts issued $2.25 billion of guaranteed perpetual
    Normal Automatic Preferred Enhanced Capital Securities (APEX) to
    third parties and a de minimis amount of common securities to
    Group Inc. Group Inc. also entered into contracts with
    the APEX Trusts to sell $2.25 billion of Group Inc.
    perpetual
     non-cumulative 
    preferred stock (the stock purchase contracts).

The APEX Trusts are wholly owned finance subsidiaries of the
    firm for regulatory and legal purposes but are not consolidated
    for accounting purposes.

The firm accounted for the stock purchase contracts as equity
    instruments and, accordingly, recorded the cost of the stock
    purchase contracts as a reduction to additional
     paid-in 
    capital. See Note 19 for information

on the preferred stock that Group Inc. will issue in
    connection with the stock purchase contracts.

The firm pays interest
     semi-annually 
    on $1.75 billion of junior subordinated debt issued to
    Goldman Sachs Capital II at a fixed annual rate of 5.59%
    and the debt matures on June 1, 2043. The firm pays
    interest quarterly on $500 million of junior subordinated
    debt issued to Goldman Sachs Capital III at a rate per
    annum equal to
     three-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.57% and the debt matures on
    September 1, 2043. In addition, the firm makes
    contract payments at a rate of 0.20% per annum on the stock
    purchase contracts held by the APEX Trusts.

The firm has the right to defer payments on the junior
    subordinated debt and the stock purchase contracts, subject to
    limitations, and therefore cause payment on the APEX to be
    deferred. During any such extension period, the firm will not be
    permitted to, among other things, pay dividends on or make
    certain repurchases of its common or preferred stock.

159

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In connection with the APEX issuance, the firm covenanted in
    favor of certain of its debtholders, who were initially and are
    currently the holders of Group Inc. s 6.345% Junior
    Subordinated Debentures due February 15, 2034, that,
    subject to certain exceptions, the firm would not redeem or
    purchase (i) Group Inc. s junior subordinated
    debt issued to the APEX Trusts prior to the applicable stock
    purchase date or (ii) APEX or shares of
    Group Inc. s perpetual
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series E (Series E Preferred Stock)
    or perpetual
     Non-Cumulative 
    Preferred Stock, Series F (Series F Preferred Stock)
    prior to the date that is ten years after the applicable stock
    purchase date, unless the applicable redemption or purchase
    price does not exceed a maximum amount determined by reference
    to the aggregate amount of net cash proceeds that the firm has
    received from the sale of qualifying equity securities during
    the  180-day 
    period preceding the redemption or purchase.

Junior Subordinated Debt Issued in Connection with
    Trust Preferred Securities.   Group Inc.
    issued $2.84 billion of junior subordinated debentures in
    2004 to Goldman Sachs Capital I (Trust), a Delaware
    statutory trust. The Trust issued $2.75 billion of
    guaranteed preferred beneficial interests to third

parties and $85 million of common beneficial interests to
    Group Inc. and used the proceeds from the issuances to
    purchase the junior subordinated debentures from Group Inc.
    The Trust is a wholly owned finance subsidiary of the firm for
    regulatory and legal purposes but is not consolidated for
    accounting purposes.

The firm pays interest
     semi-annually 
    on the debentures at an annual rate of 6.345% and the debentures
    mature on February 15, 2034. The coupon rate and the
    payment dates applicable to the beneficial interests are the
    same as the interest rate and payment dates for the debentures.
    The firm has the right, from time to time, to defer payment of
    interest on the debentures, and, therefore, cause payment on the
    Trust s preferred beneficial interests to be deferred, in
    each case up to ten consecutive
     semi-annual 
    periods. During any such extension period, the firm will not be
    permitted to, among other things, pay dividends on or make
    certain repurchases of its common stock. The Trust is not
    permitted to pay any distributions on the common beneficial
    interests held by Group Inc. unless all dividends payable
    on the preferred beneficial interests have been paid in full.

160

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 17.  Other
    Liabilities and Accrued Expenses  

The table below presents other liabilities and accrued expenses
    by type.

The table below presents insurance-related liabilities by type.

Separate account liabilities are supported by separate account
    assets, representing segregated contract holder funds under
    variable annuity and life insurance contracts. Separate account
    assets are included in  Cash and securities segregated for
    regulatory and other purposes. 

Liabilities for future benefits and unpaid claims include
    liabilities arising from reinsurance provided by the firm to
    other insurers. The firm had a receivable of $1.26 billion
    and $1.29 billion as of December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively, related to such reinsurance
    contracts, which is reported in  Receivables from customers
    and counterparties.  In addition, the firm has ceded risks
    to reinsurers related to certain of its liabilities for future
    benefits and unpaid claims and had a receivable of
    $839 million and $870 million as of December 2010
    and December 2009,

respectively, related to such reinsurance contracts, which is
    reported in  Receivables from customers and
    counterparties.  Contracts to cede risks to reinsurers do
    not relieve the firm of its obligations to contract holders.
    Liabilities for future benefits and unpaid claims include
    $2.05 billion and $1.84 billion carried at fair value
    under the fair value option as of December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively.

Reserves for guaranteed minimum death and income benefits
    represent a liability for the expected value of guaranteed
    benefits in excess of projected annuity account balances. These
    reserves are based on total payments expected to be made less
    total fees expected to be assessed over the life of the contract.

161

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 18.  Commitments,
    Contingencies and Guarantees  

Commitments  

The table below presents the firm s commitments.

1.  
 
         Commitments to extend credit are presented net of amounts
    syndicated to third parties.

2.  
 
         These agreements generally settle within three business days.

3.  
 
         Consists of commitments under letters of credit issued by
    various banks which the firm provides to counterparties in lieu
    of securities or cash to satisfy various collateral and margin
    deposit requirements.

Commitments to
    Extend Credit  

The firm s commitments to extend credit are agreements to
    lend with fixed termination dates and depend on the satisfaction
    of all contractual conditions to borrowing. The total commitment
    amount does not necessarily reflect actual future cash flows
    because the firm may syndicate all or substantial portions of
    these commitments and commitments can expire unused or be
    reduced or cancelled at the counterparty s request.

The firm generally accounts for commitments to extend credit at
    fair value. Losses, if any, are generally recorded, net of any
    fees in  Other principal transactions. 

Commercial Lending.   The firm s commercial
    lending commitments are generally extended in connection with
    contingent acquisition financing and other types of corporate
    lending as well as commercial real estate financing. Commitments
    that are extended for contingent acquisition financing are often
    intended to be
     short-term 
    in nature, as borrowers often seek to replace them with other
    funding sources.

William Street Credit Extension
    Program.   Substantially all of the commitments
    provided under the William Street credit extension program are
    to
     investment-grade 
    corporate borrowers. Commitments under the program are
    principally extended by William Street Commitment Corporation
    (Commitment Corp.), a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of
    GS Bank USA, GS Bank USA, and other subsidiaries of
    GS Bank USA. The commitments extended by Commitment Corp.
    are supported, in part, by funding raised by William Street
    Funding Corporation (Funding Corp.), another consolidated wholly
    owned subsidiary of GS Bank USA.

The assets and liabilities of Commitment Corp. and Funding Corp.
    are legally separated from other assets and liabilities of the
    firm. The assets of Commitment Corp. and of Funding Corp. will
    not be available to their respective shareholders until the
    claims of their respective creditors have been paid. In
    addition, no affiliate of either Commitment Corp. or Funding
    Corp., except in limited cases as expressly agreed in writing,
    is responsible for any obligation of either entity.

162

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, Inc. (SMFG) provides the firm
    with credit loss protection that is generally limited to 95% of
    the first loss the firm realizes on approved loan commitments,
    up to a maximum of approximately $950 million, with respect
    to most of the William Street commitments. In addition, subject
    to the satisfaction of certain conditions, upon the firm s
    request, SMFG will provide protection for 70% of additional
    losses on such commitments, up to a maximum of
    $1.13 billion, of which $375 million of protection had
    been provided as of both December 2010 and
    December 2009. The firm also uses other financial
    instruments to mitigate credit risks related to certain William
    Street commitments not covered by SMFG.

Warehouse Financing.   The firm provides
    financing to clients who warehouse financial assets. These
    arrangements are secured by the warehoused assets, primarily
    consisting of residential and commercial mortgages.

Contingent and
    Forward Starting Resale and Securities Borrowing
    Agreements/Forward Starting Repurchase and Securities Lending
    Agreements  

The firm enters into resale and securities borrowing agreements
    and repurchase and securities lending agreements that settle at
    a future date. The firm also enters into commitments to provide
    contingent financing to its clients through resale agreements.
    The firm s funding of these commitments depends on the
    satisfaction of all contractual conditions to the resale
    agreement and these commitments can expire unused.

Investment
    Commitments  

The firm s investment commitments consist of commitments to
    invest in private equity, real estate and other assets directly
    and through funds that the firm raises and manages. These
    commitments include $1.97 billion and $2.46 billion as
    of December 2010 and December 2009, respectively,
    related to real estate private investments and
    $9.12 billion and $10.78 billion as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively, related
    to corporate and other private investments. Of these amounts,
    $10.10 billion and $11.38 billion as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively, relate
    to commitments to invest in funds managed by the firm, which
    will be funded at market value on the date of investment.

Leases  

The firm has contractual obligations under
     long-term 
    noncancelable lease agreements, principally for office space,
    expiring on various dates through 2069. Certain agreements are
    subject to periodic escalation provisions for increases in real
    estate taxes and other charges. The table below presents future
    minimum rental payments, net of minimum sublease rentals.

Rent charged to operating expense for the years ended
    December 2010, December 2009 and December 2008
    was $508 million, $434 million and $438 million,
    respectively.

Operating leases include office space held in excess of current
    requirements. Rent expense relating to space held for growth is
    included in  Occupancy  in the consolidated statements
    of earnings. The firm records a liability, based on the fair
    value of the remaining lease rentals reduced by any potential or
    existing sublease rentals, for leases where the firm has ceased
    using the space and management has concluded that the firm will
    not derive any future economic benefits. Costs to terminate a
    lease before the end of its term are recognized and measured at
    fair value on termination.

163

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Contingencies  

Legal Proceedings.   See Note 30 for
    information on legal proceedings, including certain
     mortgage-related 
    matters.

Certain
     Mortgage-Related 
    Contingencies.   There are multiple areas of focus
    by regulators, governmental agencies and others within the
    mortgage market that may impact originators, issuers, servicers
    and investors. There remains significant uncertainty surrounding
    the nature and extent of any potential exposure for participants
    in this market.

Representations and Warranties.   The firm was
    not a significant originator of residential mortgage loans. The
    firm did purchase loans originated by others and generally
    received
     loan-level 
    representations of the type described below from the
    originators. During the period 2005 through 2008, the firm sold
    approximately $10 billion of loans to government-sponsored
    enterprises and approximately $11 billion of loans to other
    third parties. In addition, the firm transferred loans to trusts
    and other mortgage securitization vehicles. As of
    December 2010, the outstanding balance of the loans
    transferred to trusts and other mortgage securitization vehicles
    during the period 2005 through 2008 was approximately
    $49 billion. This amount reflects paydowns and cumulative
    losses of approximately $76 billion ($14 billion of
    which are cumulative losses). A small number of these Goldman
    Sachs-issued securitizations with an outstanding principal
    balance of $739 million and total paydowns and cumulative
    losses of $1.32 billion ($410 million of which are
    cumulative losses) were structured with credit protection
    obtained from monoline insurers. In connection with both sales
    of loans and securitizations, the firm provided loan level
    representations of the type described below
     and/or 
    assigned the loan level representations from the party from whom
    the firm purchased the loans.

The loan level representations made in connection with the sale
    or securitization of mortgage loans varied among transactions
    but were generally detailed representations applicable to each
    loan in the portfolio and addressed matters relating to the
    property, the borrower and the note. These representations
    generally included, but were not limited to, the following:
    (i) certain attributes of the borrower s financial
    status;
     (ii) loan-to-value 
    ratios,

owner occupancy status and certain other characteristics of the
    property; (iii) the lien position; (iv) the fact that
    the loan was originated in compliance with law; and
    (v) completeness of the loan documentation.

To date, repurchase claims and actual repurchases of residential
    mortgage loans based upon alleged breaches of representations
    have not been significant and have mainly involved
     government-sponsored 
    enterprises. During the year ended December 2010, the firm
    incurred an immaterial loss on the repurchase of less than
    $50 million of loans. As of December 2010, outstanding
    repurchase claims were not material.

Ultimately, the firm s exposure to claims for repurchase of
    residential mortgage loans based on alleged breaches of
    representations will depend on a number of factors including the
    following: (i) the extent to which these claims are
    actually made; (ii) the extent to which there are
    underlying breaches of representations that give rise to valid
    claims for repurchase; (iii) in the case of loans
    originated by others, the extent to which the firm could be held
    liable and, if it is, the firm s ability to pursue and
    collect on any claims against the parties who made
    representations to the firm;
     (iv) macro-economic 
    factors, including developments in the residential real estate
    market; and (v) legal and regulatory developments.

Based upon the large number of defaults in residential
    mortgages, including those sold or securitized by the firm,
    there is a potential for increasing claims for repurchases.
    However, the firm is not in a position to make a meaningful
    estimate of that exposure at this time.

Foreclosure and Other Mortgage Loan Servicing Practices and
    Procedures.   The firm has received a number of
    requests for information from regulators and other agencies,
    including state attorneys general and banking regulators, as
    part of an
     industry-wide 
    focus on the practices of lenders and servicers in connection
    with foreclosure proceedings and other aspects of mortgage loan
    servicing practices and procedures. The requests seek
    information about the foreclosure and servicing protocols and
    activities of Litton Loan Servicing LP (Litton), the firm s
    residential mortgage servicing subsidiary, and any deviations
    therefrom. The firm is cooperating with the requests and is
    reviewing

164

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Litton s practices in this area. These inquiries may result
    in the imposition of fines or other regulatory action. Litton
    temporarily suspended evictions and foreclosure and real estate
    owned sales in a number of states, including those with judicial
    foreclosure procedures. Litton has recently resumed some of
    these activities. As of the date of this filing, the firm is not
    aware of foreclosures where the underlying foreclosure decision
    was not warranted. As of December 2010, the value of the
    firm s mortgage servicing rights was not material and any
    impact on their value would not be material to the firm.
    Similarly, at this time the firm does not expect the suspension
    of evictions and foreclosure and real estate owned sales to lead
    to a material increase in its mortgage servicing-related
    advances.

Guaranteed Minimum Death and Income
    Benefits.   In connection with its insurance
    business, the firm is contingently liable to provide guaranteed
    minimum death and income benefits to certain contract holders
    and has established a reserve related to $6.11 billion and
    $6.35 billion of contract holder account balances as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively, for
    such benefits. The weighted average attained age of these
    contract holders was 69 years and 68 years as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively.

The net amount at risk, representing guaranteed minimum death
    and income benefits in excess of contract holder account
    balances, was $1.60 billion and $1.96 billion as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively. See
    Note 17 for further information about insurance liabilities.

Guarantees  

The firm enters into various derivatives that meet the
    definition of a guarantee under U.S. GAAP, including
    written equity and commodity put options, written currency
    contracts and interest rate caps, floors and swaptions.
    Disclosures about derivatives are not required if they may be
    cash settled and the firm has

no basis to conclude it is probable that the counterparties held
    the underlying instruments at inception of the contract. The
    firm has concluded that these conditions have been met for
    certain large, internationally active commercial and investment
    bank counterparties and certain other counterparties.
    Accordingly, the firm has not included such contracts in the
    table below.

The firm, in its capacity as an agency lender, indemnifies most
    of its securities lending customers against losses incurred in
    the event that borrowers do not return securities and the
    collateral held is insufficient to cover the market value of the
    securities borrowed.

In the ordinary course of business, the firm provides other
    financial guarantees of the obligations of third parties
    (e.g., standby letters of credit and other guarantees to
    enable clients to complete transactions and fund-related
    guarantees). These guarantees represent obligations to make
    payments to beneficiaries if the guaranteed party fails to
    fulfill its obligation under a contractual arrangement with that
    beneficiary.

The table below presents certain information about derivatives
    that meet the definition of a guarantee and certain other
    guarantees. The maximum payout in the table below is based on
    the notional amount of the contract and therefore does not
    represent anticipated losses. See Note 7 for further
    information about credit derivatives that meet the definition of
    a guarantee which are not included below.

Because derivatives are accounted for at fair value, carrying
    value is considered the best indication of payment/performance
    risk for individual contracts. However, the carrying values
    below exclude the effect of a legal right of setoff that may
    exist under an enforceable netting agreement and the effect of
    netting of cash collateral posted under credit support
    agreements.

165

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

1.  
 
         These derivatives are risk managed together with derivatives
    that do not meet the definition of a guarantee and, therefore,
    these amounts do not reflect the firm s overall risk
    related to its derivative activities.

2.  
 
         Collateral held by the lenders in connection with securities
    lending indemnifications was $28.21 billion as of
    December 2010. Because the contractual nature of these
    arrangements requires the firm to obtain collateral with a
    market value that exceeds the value of the securities lent to
    the borrower, there is minimal performance risk associated with
    these guarantees.

3.  
 
         Other financial guarantees excludes certain commitments to issue
    standby letters of credit that are included in  Commitments
    to extend credit.  See table in  Commitments 
    above for a summary of the firm s commitments.

As of December 2009, the carrying value of the net
    liability related to derivative guarantees and other financial
    guarantees was $7.22 billion and $207 million,
    respectively.

Guarantees of Securities Issued by Trusts.   The
    firm has established trusts, including Goldman Sachs
    Capital I, II and III, and other entities for the limited
    purpose of issuing securities to third parties, lending the
    proceeds to the firm and entering into contractual arrangements
    with the firm and third parties related to this purpose. The
    firm does not consolidate these entities. See Note 16 for
    further information about the transactions involving Goldman
    Sachs Capital I, II and III.

The firm effectively provides for the full and unconditional
    guarantee of the securities issued by these entities. Timely
    payment by the firm of amounts due to these entities under the
    borrowing, preferred stock and related contractual arrangements
    will be sufficient to cover payments due on the securities
    issued by these entities.

Management believes that it is unlikely that any circumstances
    will occur, such as nonperformance on the part of paying agents
    or other service providers, that would make it necessary for the
    firm to make payments related to these entities other than those
    required under the terms of the borrowing, preferred stock and
    related contractual arrangements and in connection with certain
    expenses incurred by these entities.

Indemnities and Guarantees of Service
    Providers.   In the ordinary course of business,
    the firm indemnifies and guarantees certain service providers,
    such as clearing and custody agents, trustees and
    administrators, against specified potential losses in connection
    with their acting as an agent of, or providing services to, the
    firm or its affiliates.

The firm also indemnifies some clients against potential losses
    incurred in the event specified
     third-party 
    service providers, including
     sub-custodians 
    and
     third-party 
    brokers, improperly execute transactions. In addition, the firm
    is a member of payment, clearing and settlement networks as well
    as securities exchanges around the world that may require the
    firm to meet the obligations of such networks and exchanges in
    the event of member defaults.

In connection with its prime brokerage and clearing businesses,
    the firm agrees to clear and settle on behalf of its clients the
    transactions entered into by them with other brokerage firms.
    The firm s obligations in respect of such transactions are
    secured by the assets in the client s account as well as
    any proceeds received from the transactions cleared and settled
    by the firm on behalf of the client. In connection with joint
    venture investments, the firm may issue loan guarantees under
    which it may be liable in the event of fraud, misappropriation,
    environmental liabilities and certain other matters involving
    the borrower.

166

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm is unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout
    under these guarantees and indemnifications. However, management
    believes that it is unlikely the firm will have to make any
    material payments under these arrangements, and no material
    liabilities related to these guarantees and indemnifications
    have been recognized in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition as of December 2010 and December 2009.

Other Representations, Warranties and
    Indemnifications.   The firm provides
    representations and warranties to counterparties in connection
    with a variety of commercial transactions and occasionally
    indemnifies them against potential losses caused by the breach
    of those representations and warranties. The firm may also
    provide indemnifications protecting against changes in or
    adverse application of certain U.S. tax laws in connection
    with ordinary-course transactions such as securities issuances,
    borrowings or derivatives.

In addition, the firm may provide indemnifications to some
    counterparties to protect them in the event additional taxes are
    owed or payments are withheld, due either to a change in or an
    adverse application of certain
     non-U.S. tax 
    laws.

These indemnifications generally are standard contractual terms
    and are entered into in the ordinary course of business.
    Generally, there are no stated or notional amounts included in
    these indemnifications, and the contingencies triggering the
    obligation to indemnify are not expected to occur. The firm is
    unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under these
    guarantees and indemnifications. However, management believes
    that it is unlikely the firm will have to make any material
    payments under these arrangements, and no material liabilities
    related to these arrangements have been recognized in the
    consolidated statements of financial condition as of
    December 2010 and December 2009.

Guarantees of Subsidiaries.   Group Inc.
    fully and unconditionally guarantees the securities issued by GS
    Finance Corp., a wholly owned finance subsidiary of the firm.

Group Inc. has guaranteed the payment obligations of
    Goldman, Sachs   Co. (GS Co.), GS Bank USA,
    GS Bank Europe and Goldman Sachs Execution  
    Clearing, L.P. (GSEC), subject to certain exceptions.

In November 2008, the firm contributed subsidiaries into
    GS Bank USA, and Group Inc. agreed to guarantee
    certain losses, including
     credit-related 
    losses, relating to assets held by the contributed entities. In
    connection with this guarantee, Group Inc. also agreed to
    pledge to GS Bank USA certain collateral, including
    interests in subsidiaries and other illiquid assets.

In addition, Group Inc. guarantees many of the obligations
    of its other consolidated subsidiaries on a
     transaction-by-transaction 
    basis, as negotiated with counterparties. Group Inc. is
    unable to develop an estimate of the maximum payout under its
    subsidiary guarantees; however, because these guaranteed
    obligations are also obligations of consolidated subsidiaries
    included in the table above, Group Inc. s liabilities
    as guarantor are not separately disclosed.

167

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 19.  Shareholders 
    Equity            

Common
    Equity  

Dividends declared per common share were $1.40 in 2010, $1.05 in
    2009 and $1.40 in 2008. On January 18, 2011,
    Group Inc. declared a dividend of $0.35 per common share to
    be paid on March 30, 2011 to common shareholders of
    record on March 2, 2011. On
    December 15, 2008, the Board declared a dividend of
    $0.4666666 per common share to be paid on
    March 26, 2009 to common shareholders of record on
    February 24, 2009. The dividend of $0.4666666 per
    common share is reflective of a four-month period
    (December 2008 through March 2009), due to the change
    in the firm s fiscal year-end.

During 2010 and 2009, the firm repurchased 25.3 million and
    19,578 shares of its common stock at an average cost per
    share of $164.48 and $80.83, for a total cost of
    $4.16 billion and $2 million, respectively. In
    addition, to satisfy minimum statutory employee tax withholding
    requirements related to the delivery of common stock underlying
    restricted stock units (RSUs), the firm cancelled
    6.2 million and 11.2 million of RSUs with a total
    value of $972 million and $863 million in 2010 and
    2009, respectively.

The firm s share repurchase program is intended to
    substantially offset increases in share count over time
    resulting from employee
     share-based 
    compensation and to help maintain the appropriate level of
    common equity. The repurchase program is effected primarily
    through regular
     open-market 
    purchases, the amounts and timing of which are determined
    primarily by the firm s issuance of shares resulting from
    employee
     share-based 
    compensation as well as its current and projected capital
    position (i.e., comparisons of the firm s desired
    level of capital to its actual level of capital), but which may
    also be influenced by general market conditions and the
    prevailing price and trading volumes of the firm s common
    stock. Any repurchase of the firm s common stock requires
    approval by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System
    (Federal Reserve Board).

Preferred
    Equity  

The table below presents perpetual preferred stock issued and
    outstanding.

168

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Each share of
     non-cumulative 
    Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock,
    Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock
    issued and outstanding has a par value of $0.01, has a
    liquidation preference of $25,000, is represented by 1,000
    depositary shares and is redeemable at the firm s option,
    subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board, at a
    redemption price equal to $25,000 plus declared and unpaid
    dividends.

Each share of 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock,
    Series G (Series G Preferred Stock) issued and
    outstanding has a par value of $0.01, has a liquidation
    preference of $100,000 and is redeemable at the firm s
    option, subject to the approval of the Federal Reserve Board, at
    a redemption price equal to $110,000 plus accrued and unpaid
    dividends. In connection with the issuance of the Series G
    Preferred Stock, the firm issued a five-year warrant to purchase
    up to 43.5 million shares of common stock at an exercise
    price of $115.00 per share. The warrant is exercisable at any
    time until October 1, 2013 and the number of shares of
    common stock underlying the warrant and the exercise price are
    subject to adjustment for certain dilutive events.

All series of preferred stock are pari passu and have a
    preference over the firm s common stock on liquidation.
    Dividends on each series of preferred stock, if declared, are
    payable quarterly in arrears. The firm s ability to declare
    or pay dividends on, or purchase, redeem or otherwise acquire,
    its common stock is subject to certain restrictions in the event
    that the firm fails to pay or set aside full dividends on the
    preferred stock for the latest completed dividend period.

In 2007, the Board authorized 17,500.1 shares of
    Series E Preferred Stock, and 5,000.1 shares of
    Series F Preferred Stock, in connection with the APEX
    Trusts. See Note 16 for further information.

Under the stock purchase contracts with the APEX Trusts,
    Group Inc. will issue on the relevant stock purchase dates
    (on or before June 1, 2013 and
    September 1, 2013 for Series E and Series F
    Preferred Stock, respectively) one share of Series E and
    Series F Preferred Stock to Goldman Sachs Capital II
    and III, respectively, for each $100,000 principal amount of
    subordinated debt held by these trusts. When issued, each share
    of Series E and Series F Preferred Stock will have a
    par value of $0.01 and a liquidation preference of $100,000 per
    share.

Dividends on Series E Preferred Stock, if declared, will be
    payable
     semi-annually 
    at a fixed annual rate of 5.79% if the stock is issued prior to
    June 1, 2012 and quarterly thereafter, at a rate per
    annum equal to the greater of
     (i) three-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.77% and (ii) 4.00%.

Dividends on Series F Preferred Stock, if declared, will be
    payable quarterly at a rate per annum equal to
     three-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.77% if the stock is issued prior to
    September 1, 2012 and quarterly thereafter, at a rate
    per annum equal to the greater of
     (i) three-month 
    LIBOR plus 0.77% and (ii) 4.00%.

The preferred stock may be redeemed at the option of the firm on
    the stock purchase dates or any day thereafter, subject to
    approval from the Federal Reserve Board and certain covenant
    restrictions governing the firm s ability to redeem or
    purchase the preferred stock without issuing common stock or
    other instruments with
     equity-like 
    characteristics.

In June 2009, Group Inc. repurchased from the
    U.S. Treasury the 10.0 million shares of the
    Company s Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock,
    Series H (Series H Preferred Stock), that were issued
    to the U.S. Treasury pursuant to the
    U.S. Treasury s TARP Capital Purchase Program. The
    repurchase resulted in a
     one-time 
    preferred dividend of $426 million, which is included in
    the consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended
    December 2009. This
     one-time 
    preferred dividend represented the difference between the
    carrying value and the redemption value of the Series H
    Preferred Stock. In connection with the issuance of the
    Series H Preferred Stock in October 2008, the firm
    issued a
     10-year 
    warrant to the U.S. Treasury to purchase up to
    12.2 million shares of common stock at an exercise price of
    $122.90 per share. The firm repurchased this warrant in full in
    July 2009 for $1.1 billion. This amount was recorded
    as a reduction to additional
     paid-in 
    capital.

On January 18, 2011, Group Inc. declared
    dividends of $239.58, $387.50, $255.56 and $255.56 per share of
    Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock,
    Series C Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock,
    respectively, to be paid on February 10, 2011 to
    preferred shareholders of record on January 26, 2011.
    In addition, Group Inc. declared a dividend of $2,500 per
    share of Series G Preferred Stock to be paid on
    February 10, 2011 to preferred shareholders of record
    on January 26, 2011.

169

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The table below presents preferred dividends declared on
    preferred stock.

1.   
     
    Amounts for the year ended December 2009 exclude the
     one-time 
    preferred dividend of $426 million related to the
    repurchase of the TARP Series H Preferred Stock in the
    second quarter of 2009, as well as $44 million of accrued
    dividends paid on repurchase of the Series H Preferred
    Stock.

Accumulated Other
    Comprehensive Income/(Loss)  

The table below presents accumulated other comprehensive
    income/(loss) by type.

1.   
     
    Substantially all consists of net unrealized gains on
     available-for-sale 
    securities held by the firm s insurance subsidiaries as of
    both December 2010 and December 2009.

170

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 20.  Regulation
    and Capital Adequacy  

The Federal Reserve Board is the primary regulator of
    Group Inc., a bank holding company and a financial holding
    company under the U.S. Bank Holding Company Act of 1956. As
    a bank holding company, the firm is subject to consolidated
    regulatory capital requirements that are computed in accordance
    with the Federal Reserve Board s capital adequacy
    regulations currently applicable to bank holding companies
    (Basel 1). These capital requirements, which are based on the
    Capital Accord of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
    (Basel Committee), are expressed as capital ratios that compare
    measures of capital to
     risk-weighted 
    assets (RWAs). The firm s bank depository institution
    subsidiaries, including GS Bank USA, are subject to similar
    capital requirements.

Under the Federal Reserve Board s capital adequacy
    requirements and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective
    action that is applicable to GS Bank USA, the firm and its
    bank depository institution subsidiaries must meet specific
    capital requirements that involve quantitative measures of
    assets, liabilities and certain
     off-balance-sheet 
    items as calculated under regulatory reporting practices. The
    firm and its bank depository institution subsidiaries 
    capital amounts, as well as GS Bank USA s prompt
    corrective action classification, are also subject to
    qualitative judgments by the regulators about components, risk
    weightings and other factors.

Many of the firm s subsidiaries, including GS Co. and
    the firm s other
     broker-dealer 
    subsidiaries, are subject to separate regulation and capital
    requirements as described below.

Group Inc.  

Federal Reserve Board regulations require bank holding companies
    to maintain a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio of 4% and a
    minimum total capital ratio of 8%. The required minimum
    Tier 1 capital ratio and total capital ratio in order to be
    considered a  well-capitalized  bank holding company
    under the Federal Reserve Board guidelines are 6% and 10%,
    respectively. Bank holding companies may be expected to maintain
    ratios well above the minimum

levels, depending on their particular condition, risk profile
    and growth plans. The minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio is 3%
    for bank holding companies that have received the highest
    supervisory rating under Federal Reserve Board guidelines or
    that have implemented the Federal Reserve Board s
     risk-based 
    capital measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies
    must have a minimum Tier 1 leverage ratio of 4%.

The table below presents information regarding
    Group Inc. s regulatory capital ratios.

RWAs under the Federal Reserve Board s
     risk-based 
    capital guidelines are calculated based on the amount of market
    risk and credit risk. RWAs for market risk are determined by
    reference to the firm s Value-at-Risk (VaR) models,
    supplemented by other measures to capture risks not reflected in
    VaR models. Credit risk for on-balance sheet assets is based on
    the balance sheet value. For off-balance sheet exposures,
    including OTC derivatives and commitments, a credit equivalent
    amount is calculated based on the notional amount of each trade.
    All such assets and amounts are then assigned a risk weight
    depending on, among other things, whether the counterparty is a
    sovereign, bank or qualifying securities firm or other entity
    (or if collateral is held, depending on the nature of the
    collateral).

Tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital
    under Basel 1 divided by average adjusted total assets (which
    includes adjustments for disallowed goodwill and intangible
    assets, and the carrying value of equity investments in
     non-financial 
    companies that are subject to deductions from Tier 1
    capital).

171

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Regulatory
    Reform  

The firm is currently working to implement the requirements set
    out in the Federal Reserve Board s Capital Adequacy
    Guidelines for Bank Holding Companies: Internal-Ratings-Based
    and Advanced Measurement Approaches, which are based on the
    advanced approaches under the Revised Framework for the
    International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital
    Standards issued by the Basel Committee as applicable to
    Group Inc. as a bank holding company (Basel 2).
    U.S. banking regulators have incorporated the Basel 2
    framework into the existing
     risk-based 
    capital requirements by requiring that internationally active
    banking organizations, such as Group Inc., transition to
    Basel 2 following the successful completion of a parallel run.

In addition, the Basel Committee has undertaken a program of
    substantial revisions to its capital guidelines. In particular,
    the changes in the  Basel 2.5  guidelines will
    result in increased capital requirements for market risk;
    additionally, the Basel 3 guidelines issued by the Basel
    Committee in December 2010 revise the definition of
    Tier 1 capital, introduce Tier 1 common equity as a
    regulatory metric, set new minimum capital ratios (including a
    new  capital conservation buffer,  which must be
    composed exclusively of Tier 1 common equity and will be in
    addition to the other capital ratios), introduce a Tier 1
    leverage ratio within international guidelines for the first
    time, and make substantial revisions to the computation of
     risk-weighted 
    assets for credit exposures. Implementation of the new
    requirements is expected to take place over an extended
    transition period, starting at the end of 2011 (for Basel 2.5)
    and end of 2012 (for Basel 3). Although the U.S. federal
    banking agencies have now issued proposed rules that are
    intended to implement certain aspects of the Basel 2.5
    guidelines, they have not yet addressed all aspects of those
    guidelines or the Basel 3 changes. In addition, both the Basel
    Committee and U.S. banking regulators implementing the
    Dodd-Frank Act have indicated that they will impose more
    stringent capital standards on systemically important financial

institutions. Although the criteria for treatment as a
    systemically important financial institution have not yet been
    determined, it is probable that they will apply to the firm.
    Therefore, the regulations ultimately applicable to the firm may
    be substantially different from those that have been published
    to date.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
    (Dodd-Frank Act) will subject the firm at a firmwide level to
    the same leverage and
     risk-based 
    capital requirements that apply to depository institutions and
    directs banking regulators to impose additional capital
    requirements as disclosed above. The Federal Reserve Board will
    be required to begin implementing the new leverage and
     risk-based 
    capital regulation by January 2012. As a consequence of
    these changes, Tier 1 capital treatment for the firm s
    junior subordinated debt issued to trusts and the firm s
    cumulative preferred stock will be phased out over a three-year
    period beginning on January 1, 2013. The interaction
    between the Dodd-Frank Act and the Basel Committee s
    proposed changes adds further uncertainty to the firm s
    future capital requirements.

A number of other governmental entities and regulators,
    including the U.S. Treasury, the European Union and the
    U.K. s Financial Services Authority (FSA), have also
    proposed or announced changes which will result in increased
    capital requirements for financial institutions.

As a consequence of these developments, the firm expects minimum
    capital ratios required to be maintained under Federal Reserve
    Board regulations will be increased and changes in the
    prescribed calculation methodology are expected to result in
    higher RWAs and lower capital ratios than those currently
    computed.

The capital requirements of several of the firm s
    subsidiaries will also be impacted in the future by the various
    proposals from the Basel Committee, the
     Dodd-Frank 
    Act, and other governmental entities and regulators.

172

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Bank
    Subsidiaries  

GS Bank USA, an FDIC-insured, New York State-chartered
    bank and a member of the Federal Reserve System and the FDIC, is
    regulated by the Federal Reserve Board and the New York State
    Banking Department and is subject to minimum capital
    requirements (described further below) that are calculated in a
    manner similar to those applicable to bank holding companies.
    GS Bank USA computes its capital ratios in accordance with
    the regulatory capital guidelines currently applicable to state
    member banks, which are based on Basel 1 as implemented by the
    Federal Reserve Board, for purposes of assessing the adequacy of
    its capital. In order to be considered a
     well-capitalized  depository institution under the
    Federal Reserve Board guidelines, GS Bank USA must maintain
    a Tier 1 capital ratio of at least 6%, a total capital
    ratio of at least 10% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at
    least 5%. In November 2008, the firm contributed
    subsidiaries into GS Bank USA. In connection with this
    contribution, GS Bank USA agreed with the Federal Reserve
    Board to minimum capital ratios in excess of these
     well-capitalized  levels. Accordingly, for a period
    of time, GS Bank USA is expected to maintain a Tier 1
    capital ratio of at least 8%, a total capital ratio of at least
    11% and a Tier 1 leverage ratio of at least 6%.

The table below presents information regarding GS Bank
    USA s regulatory capital ratios under Basel 1 as
    implemented by the Federal Reserve Board.

Effective January 18, 2011, upon receiving regulatory
    approval, GS Bank USA declared a dividend of $1.00 billion
    to Group, Inc. In conjunction with the approval of this
    dividend, GS Bank USA also received approval to repay
    $4.00 billion in subordinated debt to Group, Inc. The
    dividend and subordinated debt repayments took place on
    February 1, 2011, and would have reduced GS Bank USA s
    Tier 1 and total capital ratios as of December 2010 by
    1.0% and 5.1%, respectively.

GS Bank USA is currently working to implement the Basel 2
    framework. Similar to the firm s requirement as a bank
    holding company, GS Bank USA is required to transition to
    Basel 2 following the successful completion

of a parallel run. In addition, the capital requirements for
    GS Bank USA are expected to be impacted by changes to the
    Basel Committee s capital guidelines and by the Dodd-Frank
    Act, as outlined above.

The deposits of GS Bank USA are insured by the FDIC to the
    extent provided by law. The Federal Reserve Board requires
    depository institutions to maintain cash reserves with a Federal
    Reserve Bank. The amount deposited by the firm s depository
    institution subsidiaries held at the Federal Reserve Bank was
    approximately $28.12 billion and $27.43 billion as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively, which
    exceeded required reserve amounts by $27.45 billion and
    $25.86 billion as of December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively. GS Bank Europe, a wholly
    owned credit institution, is regulated by the Central Bank of
    Ireland and is subject to minimum capital requirements. As of
    December 2010 and December 2009, GS Bank USA and
    GS Bank Europe were both in compliance with all regulatory
    capital requirements.

Transactions between GS Bank USA and its subsidiaries and
    Group Inc. and its subsidiaries and affiliates (other than,
    generally, subsidiaries of GS Bank USA) are regulated by
    the Federal Reserve Board. These regulations generally limit the
    types and amounts of transactions (including loans to and
    borrowings from GS Bank USA) that may take place and
    generally require those transactions to be on an
    arm s-length basis.

Broker-Dealer 
    Subsidiaries  

The firm s U.S. regulated
     broker-dealer 
    subsidiaries include GS Co. and GSEC. GS Co. and GSEC
    are registered
     U.S. broker-dealers 
    and futures commission merchants, and are subject to regulatory
    capital requirements, including those imposed by the SEC, the
    Commodity Futures Trading Commission, Chicago Mercantile
    Exchange, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc.
    (FINRA) and the National Futures Association.
     Rule 15c3-1 
    of the SEC and Rule 1.17 of the Commodity Futures Trading
    Commission specify uniform minimum net capital requirements, as
    defined, for their registrants, and also effectively require
    that a significant part of the registrants  assets be kept
    in relatively liquid form. GS Co. and GSEC have elected to
    compute their minimum capital requirements in accordance with
    the  Alternative Net Capital Requirement  as permitted
    by
     Rule 15c3-1. 

173

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

As of December 2010, GS Co. had regulatory net
    capital, as defined by
     Rule 15c3-1, 
    of $11.14 billion, which exceeded the amount required by
    $9.21 billion. As of December 2010, GSEC had
    regulatory net capital, as defined by
     Rule 15c3-1, 
    of $1.96 billion, which exceeded the amount required by
    $1.83 billion.

In addition to its alternative minimum net capital requirements,
    GS Co. is also required to hold tentative net capital in
    excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of
    $500 million in accordance with the market and credit risk
    standards of Appendix E of
     Rule 15c3-1. 
    GS Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that
    its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of
    December 2010 and December 2009, GS Co. had
    tentative net capital and net capital in excess of both the
    minimum and the notification requirements.

Insurance
    Subsidiaries  

The firm has U.S. insurance subsidiaries that are subject
    to state insurance regulation and oversight in the states in
    which they are domiciled and in the other states in which they
    are licensed. In addition, certain of the firm s insurance
    subsidiaries outside of the U.S. are regulated by the FSA
    and certain are regulated by the Bermuda Monetary Authority. The
    firm s insurance subsidiaries were in compliance with all
    regulatory capital requirements as of December 2010 and
    December 2009.

Other
     Non-U.S. Regulated 
    Subsidiaries  

The firm s principal
     non-U.S. regulated 
    subsidiaries include Goldman Sachs International (GSI) and
    Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. (GSJCL). GSI, the firm s
    regulated U.K.
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to the capital requirements of the FSA. GSJCL, the
    firm s regulated Japanese
     broker-dealer, 
    is subject to the capital requirements imposed by Japan s
    Financial Services Agency. As of December 2010 and
    December 2009, GSI and GSJCL were in compliance with their
    local capital adequacy requirements. Certain other
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    of the firm are also subject to capital adequacy requirements
    promulgated by authorities of the countries in which they
    operate. As of December 2010 and December 2009, these
    subsidiaries were in compliance with their local capital
    adequacy requirements.

Restrictions on
    Payments  

The regulatory requirements referred to above restrict
    Group Inc. s ability to withdraw capital from its
    regulated subsidiaries. As of December 2010 and
    December 2009, approximately $24.70 billion and
    $23.49 billion, respectively, of net assets of regulated
    subsidiaries were restricted as to the payment of dividends to
    Group Inc. In addition to limitations on the payment of
    dividends imposed by federal and state laws, the Federal Reserve
    Board, the FDIC and the New York State Banking Department have
    authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by
    the banking organizations they supervise (including GS Bank
    USA) if, in the relevant regulator s opinion, payment of a
    dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in the
    light of the financial condition of the banking organization.

174

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 21.  Earnings
    Per Common Share
    (EPS)            

Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net earnings applicable to
    common shareholders by the weighted average number of common
    shares outstanding. Common shares outstanding includes common
    stock and RSUs for which no future service is required as a
    condition to the delivery of the underlying common stock.
    Diluted EPS includes the determinants of basic EPS and, in
    addition reflects the dilutive effect of the common stock
    deliverable for stock warrants and options and for RSUs for
    which future service is required as a condition to the delivery
    of the underlying common stock.

In the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the firm adopted amended
    accounting principles related to determining whether instruments
    granted in
     share-based 
    payment transactions are participating securities. Accordingly,
    the firm treats unvested
     share-based 
    payment awards that have
     non-forfeitable 
    rights to dividends or dividend equivalents as a separate class
    of securities in calculating EPS.

The table below presents the computations of basic and diluted
    EPS.

The diluted EPS computations in the table above do not include
    the antidilutive effect as follows:

In the table above, unvested
     share-based 
    payment awards that have
     non-forfeitable 
    rights to dividends or dividend equivalents are treated as a
    separate class of securities in calculating EPS. The impact of
    applying this methodology was a reduction to basic EPS of $0.08
    and $0.06 for the years ended December 2010 and

December 2009, respectively, and an increase in basic and
    diluted loss per common share of $0.03 for the one month ended
    December 2008. EPS for the year ended November 2008
    has not been restated due to immateriality.

175

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 22.  Transactions
    with Affiliated Funds  

The firm has formed numerous nonconsolidated investment funds
    with
     third-party 
    investors. The firm generally acts as the investment manager for
    these funds and, as such, is entitled to receive management fees
    and, in certain cases, advisory fees or incentive fees from
    these funds. Additionally, the firm invests alongside the
     third-party 
    investors in certain funds.

The tables below present fees earned from affiliated funds, fees
    receivable from affiliated funds and the aggregate carrying
    value of the firm s interests in affiliated funds.

The firm has provided voluntary financial support to certain of
    its funds that have experienced significant reductions in
    capital and liquidity or had limited access to the debt markets
    during the financial crisis. As of December 2010, the firm
    had exposure to these funds in the form of loans and guarantees
    of $253 million, primarily related to certain real estate
    funds. In addition, as of December 2010, the firm had
    outstanding commitments to extend credit to these funds of
    $160 million.

The firm may provide additional voluntary financial support to
    these funds if they were to experience significant financial
    distress; however, such amounts are not expected to be material
    to the firm. In the ordinary course of business, the firm may
    also engage in other activities with these funds, including,
    among others, securities lending, trade execution, market
    making, custody, and acquisition and bridge financing. See
    Note 18 for the firm s investment commitments related
    to these funds.

176

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 23.  Interest
    Income and Interest Expense  

Interest income is recorded on an accrual basis based on
    contractual interest rates. The table below presents

the sources of interest income and interest expense. 

1.  
 
         Primarily includes interest income on customer debit balances
    and other interest-earning assets.

2.  
 
         Includes interest on unsecured borrowings and other secured
    financings.

3.  
 
         Primarily includes interest expense on customer credit balances
    and other interest-bearing liabilities.

177

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 24.  Employee
    Benefit Plans  

The firm sponsors various pension plans and certain other
    postretirement benefit plans, primarily healthcare and life
    insurance. The firm also provides certain benefits to former or
    inactive employees prior to retirement.

Defined Benefit
    Pension Plans and Postretirement Plans  

Employees of certain
     non-U.S. subsidiaries 
    participate in various defined benefit pension plans. These
    plans generally provide benefits based on years of credited
    service and a percentage of the employee s eligible
    compensation. The firm maintains a defined benefit pension plan
    for most U.K. employees. As of April 2008, the U.K. defined
    benefit plan was closed to new participants, but will continue
    to accrue benefits for existing participants. These plans do not
    have a material impact on the firm s consolidated results
    of operations.

The firm also maintains a defined benefit pension plan for
    substantially all U.S. employees hired prior to
    November 1, 2003. As of November 2004, this plan
    was closed to new participants and frozen such that existing
    participants would not accrue any additional benefits. In
    addition, the firm maintains unfunded

postretirement benefit plans that provide medical and life
    insurance for eligible retirees and their dependents covered
    under these programs. These plans do not have a material impact
    on the firm s consolidated results of operations.

The firm recognizes the funded status of its defined benefit
    pension and postretirement plans, measured as the difference
    between the fair value of the plan assets and the benefit
    obligation, in the consolidated statements of financial
    condition. As of December 2010,  Other assets 
    and  Other liabilities and accrued expenses  included
    $164 million (related to an overfunded pension plan) and
    $641 million, respectively, related to these plans. As of
    December 2009,  Other liabilities and accrued
    expenses  included $769 million related to these plans.

Defined
    Contribution Plans  

The firm contributes to employer-sponsored U.S. and
     non-U.S. defined 
    contribution plans. The firm s contribution to these plans
    was $193 million, $178 million and $208 million
    for the years ended December 2010, December 2009 and
    November 2008, respectively.

178

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 25.  Employee
    Incentive Plans  

The cost of employee services received in exchange for a
     share-based 
    award is generally measured based on the grant-date fair value
    of the award.
     Share-based 
    awards that do not require future service (i.e., vested
    awards, including awards granted to retirement-eligible
    employees) are expensed immediately.
     Share-based 
    employee awards that require future service are amortized over
    the relevant service period. Expected forfeitures are included
    in determining
     share-based 
    employee compensation expense.

The firm pays cash dividend equivalents on outstanding RSUs.
    Dividend equivalents paid on RSUs are generally charged to
    retained earnings. Dividend equivalents paid on RSUs expected to
    be forfeited are included in compensation expense.

In the first quarter of fiscal 2009, the firm adopted amended
    accounting principles related to income tax benefits of
    dividends on
     share-based 
    payment awards. These amended principles require the tax benefit
    related to dividend equivalents paid on RSUs to be accounted for
    as an increase to additional
     paid-in 
    capital. Previously, the firm accounted for this tax benefit as
    a reduction to income tax expense.

In certain cases, primarily related to the death of an employee
    or conflicted employment (as outlined in the applicable award
    agreements), the firm may cash settle
     share-based 
    compensation awards. For awards accounted for as equity
    instruments, additional
     paid-in 
    capital is adjusted to the extent of the difference between the
    current value of the award and the grant-date value of the award.

Stock Incentive
    Plan  

The firm sponsors a stock incentive plan, The Goldman Sachs
    Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (SIP), which provides
    for grants of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock
    options, stock appreciation rights, dividend equivalent rights,
    restricted stock, RSUs, awards with performance conditions and
    other
     share-based 
    awards. In the second quarter of 2003, the SIP was approved by
    the firm s shareholders, effective for grants after
    April 1, 2003. The SIP was further amended and
    restated, effective December 31, 2008.

The total number of shares of common stock that may be delivered
    pursuant to awards granted under the SIP through the end of the
    2008 fiscal year could not exceed 250 million shares. The
    total number of shares of common stock that may be delivered for
    awards granted under the SIP in the 2009 fiscal year and each
    fiscal year thereafter cannot exceed 5% of the issued and
    outstanding shares of common stock, determined as of the last
    day of the immediately preceding fiscal year, increased by the
    number of shares available for awards in previous years but not
    covered by awards granted in such years. As of
    December 2010 and December 2009, 139.2 million
    and 140.6 million shares, respectively, were available for
    grant under the SIP.

Restricted Stock
    Units  

The firm issues RSUs to employees under the SIP, primarily in
    connection with year-end compensation and acquisitions. RSUs are
    valued based on the closing price of the underlying shares on
    the date of grant after taking into account a liquidity discount
    for any applicable post-vesting transfer restrictions. Year-end
    RSUs generally vest and deliver as outlined in the applicable
    RSU agreements. Employee RSU agreements generally provide that
    vesting is accelerated in certain circumstances, such as on
    retirement, death and extended absence. Delivery of the
    underlying shares of common stock is conditioned on the grantees
    satisfying certain vesting and other requirements outlined in
    the award agreements. The table below presents the activity
    related to RSUs.

179

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

In January 2011, the firm granted to its employees
    15.3 million year-end RSUs, of which 8.4 million RSUs
    require future service as a condition of delivery. These awards
    are subject to additional conditions as outlined in the award
    agreements. Generally, shares underlying these awards, net of
    required withholding tax, deliver over a three-year period but
    are subject to post-vesting transfer restrictions through
    January 2016. These grants are not included in the above
    table.

Stock
    Options  

Stock options generally vest as outlined in the applicable stock
    option agreement. Options granted in February 2010 will
    generally become exercisable in
     one-third 
    installments in January 2011, January 2012

and January 2013 and will expire in February 2014.
    Employee stock option agreements provide that vesting is
    accelerated in certain circumstances, such as on retirement,
    death and extended absence. In general, options granted prior to
    February 2010 expire on the tenth anniversary of the grant
    date, although they may be subject to earlier termination or
    cancellation under certain circumstances in accordance with the
    terms of the SIP and the applicable stock option agreement. The
    dilutive effect of the firm s outstanding stock options is
    included in  Average common shares
     outstanding   Diluted  
    in the consolidated statements of earnings. See Note 21 for
    further information on EPS.

The table below presents the activity related to stock options.

The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years
    ended December 2010, December 2009 and
    November 2008 and one month ended

December 2008 was $510 million, $484 million,
    $433 million and $1 million, respectively. The table
    below presents options outstanding.

180

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The weighted average fair value of options granted in the year
    ended December 2010 and in the one month ended
    December 2008 was $37.58 and $14.08 per option,
    respectively.

The table below presents the primary weighted average
    assumptions used to estimate fair value as of the grant date
    based on a Black-Scholes
     option-pricing 
    model.

The common stock underlying the options granted in the one month
    ended December 2008 is subject to transfer restrictions
    through January 2014. The value of the common stock
    underlying the options granted in the one month ended
    December 2008 reflects a liquidity discount of 26.7%, as a
    result of these transfer restrictions. The liquidity discount
    was based on the

firm s
     pre-determined 
    written liquidity discount policy, which is consistently applied
    to all financial instruments with transfer restrictions.

The table below presents
     share-based 
    compensation and the related tax benefit.

1.   
     
    Represents the tax benefit/(provision), recognized in additional
     paid-in 
    capital, on stock options exercised and the delivery of common
    stock underlying RSUs.

As of December 2010, there was $1.50 billion of total
    unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested
     share-based 
    compensation arrangements.

This cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average
    period of 1.61 years. 

181

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 26.  Income
    Taxes  

Provision for
    Income Taxes  

Income taxes are provided for using the asset and liability
    method under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are
    recognized for temporary differences between the financial
    reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities. The firm
    reports interest expense related to income tax matters in
     Provision for taxes  in the consolidated statements
    of earnings and income tax penalties in  Other
    expenses. 

The tables below present the components of the
    provision/(benefit) for taxes and a reconciliation of the
    U.S. federal statutory income tax rate to the firm s
    effective income tax rate.

1.  
 
         Primarily includes the effect of the SEC settlement of
    $550 million, substantially all of which is
     non-deductible. 

2.  
 
         Primarily includes the effect of the liability increase as a
    result of adopting amended principles related to accounting for
    uncertainty in income taxes.

182

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Deferred Income
    Taxes  

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary
    differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of
    assets and liabilities. These temporary differences result in
    taxable or deductible amounts in future years and are measured
    using the tax rates and laws that will be in effect when such
    differences are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances are
    established to reduce deferred tax assets to the

amount that more likely than not will be realized. Tax assets
    and liabilities are presented as a component of  Other
    assets  and  Other liabilities and accrued
    expenses,  respectively. See Notes 12 and 17 for
    further information.

The table below presents the significant components of deferred
    tax assets and liabilities.

1.  
 
         Relates primarily to the ability to utilize losses in various
    tax jurisdictions.

2.  
 
         Before netting within tax jurisdictions.

3.  
 
         Relates to depreciation and amortization.

The firm has recorded deferred tax assets of $250 million
    and $184 million as of December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively, in connection with
    U.S. federal, state and local and foreign net operating
    loss carryforwards. The firm also recorded a valuation allowance
    of $42 million and $46 million as of
    December 2010 and December 2009, respectively, related
    to these net operating loss carryforwards. As of
    December 2010, the U.S. federal, state and local, and
    foreign net operating loss carryforwards were $341 million,
    $1.54 billion and $240 million, respectively. If not
    utilized, the U.S. federal net operating loss carryforward
    will begin to expire in 2016 and the state and local net
    operating loss carryforwards will begin to expire in 2012. The
    foreign net operating loss carryforwards can be carried forward
    indefinitely.

The firm had foreign tax credit carryforwards of
    $11 million and $277 million as of December 2010
    and December 2009, respectively. The firm recorded a
    related net deferred income tax asset of $5 million and
    $271 million as of December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively. These carryforwards will begin
    to expire in 2013.

The firm had capital loss carryforwards of $12 million and
    $99 million as of December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively. The firm recorded a related
    net deferred income tax asset of $2 million and
    $35 million as of December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively. These carryforwards expire in
    2014.

During 2010 and 2009, the valuation allowance was decreased by
    $24 million and $19 million, respectively, primarily
    due to the utilization of losses previously considered more
    likely than not to expire unused.

183

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The firm permanently reinvests eligible earnings of certain
    foreign subsidiaries and, accordingly, does not accrue any
    U.S. income taxes that would arise if such earnings were
    repatriated. As of December 2010 and December 2009,
    this policy resulted in an unrecognized net deferred tax
    liability of $2.67 billion and $2.34 billion,
    respectively, attributable to reinvested earnings of
    $17.70 billion and $16.21 billion, respectively.

The firm adopted amended principles related to accounting for
    uncertainty in income taxes as of December 1, 2007 and
    recorded a transition adjustment resulting in a reduction of
    $201 million to beginning retained earnings.

Unrecognized Tax
    Benefits  

The firm recognizes tax positions in the financial statements
    only when it is more likely than not that the position will be
    sustained on examination by the relevant taxing authority based
    on the technical merits of the position. A position that meets
    this standard is measured at the largest amount of benefit that
    will more likely than not be realized on settlement. A liability
    is established for differences between positions taken in a tax
    return and amounts recognized in the financial statements.

The table below presents the changes in the liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits, which is recorded in  Other
    liabilities and accrued expenses.  See Note 17 for
    further information.

1.  
 
         Included in  Other assets.  See Note 12.

2.  
 
         If recognized, the net tax benefit would reduce the firm s
    effective income tax rate.

3.  
 
         Includes $175 million recorded in the one month ended
    December 2008.

184

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

As of December 2010 and December 2009, the accrued
    liability for interest expense related to income tax matters and
    income tax penalties was $213 million and
    $194 million, respectively. The firm recognized
    $28 million, $62 million, $37 million and
    $3 million of interest and income tax penalties for the
    years ended December 2010, December 2009,
    November 2008 and one month ended December 2008,
    respectively. It is reasonably possible that unrecognized tax
    benefits could change significantly during the twelve months
    subsequent to December 2010 due to potential audit
    settlements. At this time, it is not possible to estimate the
    change or its impact on the firm s effective tax rate over
    the next twelve months.

Regulatory Tax
    Examinations  

The firm is subject to examination by the U.S. Internal
    Revenue Service (IRS) and other taxing authorities in
    jurisdictions where the firm has significant business
    operations, such as the United Kingdom, Japan, Hong Kong, Korea
    and various states, such as New York. The tax years under
    examination vary by jurisdiction. The firm believes that during
    2011, certain audits have a reasonable possibility of being
    completed. The firm does not expect completion of these audits
    to have a material impact on the firm s financial condition
    but it may be material to operating results for a particular
    period, depending, in part, on the operating results for that
    period.

The table below presents the earliest tax years that remain
    subject to examination by major jurisdiction.

All years subsequent to the above remain open to examination by
    the taxing authorities. The firm believes that the liability for
    unrecognized tax benefits it has established is adequate in
    relation to the potential for additional assessments.

Note 27.  Business
    Segments  

In the fourth quarter of 2010, the firm reorganized its three
    previous reportable business segments into four new reportable
    business segments: Investment Banking, Institutional Client
    Services, Investing   Lending and Investment
    Management. Prior periods are presented on a comparable basis.

Basis of
    Presentation  

In reporting segments, certain of the firm s business lines
    have been aggregated where they have similar economic
    characteristics and are similar in each of the following areas:
    (i) the nature of the services they provide,
    (ii) their methods of distribution, (iii) the types of
    clients they serve and (iv) the regulatory environments in
    which they operate.

The cost drivers of the firm taken as a
     whole   compensation, 
    headcount and levels of business activity   are
    broadly similar in each of the firm s business segments.
    Compensation and benefits expenses in the firm s segments
    reflect, among other factors, the overall performance of the
    firm as well as the performance of individual businesses.
    Consequently,
     pre-tax 
    margins in one segment of the firm s business may be
    significantly affected by the performance of the firm s
    other business segments.

The firm allocates revenues and expenses among the four
    reportable business segments. Due to the integrated nature of
    these segments, estimates and judgments are made in allocating
    certain revenue and expense items. Transactions between segments
    are based on specific criteria or approximate
     third-party 
    rates. Total operating expenses include corporate items that
    have not been allocated to individual business segments. The
    allocation process is based on the manner in which management
    views the business of the firm.

185

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

The segment information presented in the table below is prepared
    according to the following methodologies:

Revenues and expenses directly associated with each segment are
    included in determining
     pre-tax 
    earnings.

Net revenues in the firm s segments include allocations of
    interest income and interest expense to specific securities,
    commodities and other positions in relation to the cash
    generated by, or funding requirements of, such underlying

positions. Net interest is included in segment net revenues as
    it is consistent with the way in which management assesses
    segment performance.

Overhead expenses not directly allocable to specific segments
    are allocated ratably based on direct segment expenses.

Management believes that the following information provides a
    reasonable representation of each segment s contribution to
    consolidated
     pre-tax 
    earnings/(loss) and total assets.

186

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Operating expenses in the table above include the following
    expenses that have not been allocated to the firm s
    segments:

The table below presents the amounts of net interest income
    included in net revenues.

The table below presents the amounts of depreciation and
    amortization expense included in
     pre-tax 
    earnings.

1.   
     
    Includes real estate-related exit costs of $1 million and
    $5 million for the years ended December 2010 and
    December 2009, respectively, that have not been allocated
    to the firm s segments.

187

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Geographic
    Information  

Due to the highly integrated nature of international financial
    markets, the firm manages its businesses based on the
    profitability of the enterprise as a whole. The methodology for
    allocating profitability to geographic regions is dependent on
    estimates and management judgment because a significant portion
    of the firm s activities require cross-border coordination
    in order to facilitate the needs of the firm s clients.

Geographic results are generally allocated as follows:

Investment Banking: location of the client and investment
    banking team.

Institutional Client Services:  Fixed Income, Currency
    and Commodities Client Execution, and Equities (excluding
    Securities Services): location of

the
     market-making 
    desk; Securities Services: location of the primary market for
    the underlying security.

Investing   Lending:  Investing: location of
    the investment; Lending: location of the client.

Investment Management:  location of the sales team.

The table below presents the total net revenues,
     pre-tax 
    earnings and net earnings of the firm by geographic region
    allocated based on the methodology referred to above, as well as
    the percentage of total net revenues,
     pre-tax 
    earnings (excluding Corporate) and net earnings (excluding
    Corporate) for each geographic region.

188

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 28.  Credit
    Concentrations  

Credit concentrations may arise from market making, client
    facilitation, investing, underwriting, lending and
    collateralized transactions and may be impacted by changes in
    economic, industry or political factors. The firm seeks to
    mitigate credit risk by actively monitoring exposures and
    obtaining collateral from counterparties as deemed appropriate.

While the firm s activities expose it to many different
    industries and counterparties, the firm routinely executes a
    high volume of transactions with asset managers, investment
    funds, commercial banks,

brokers and dealers, clearing houses and exchanges, which
    results in significant credit concentrations.

In the ordinary course of business, the firm may also be subject
    to a concentration of credit risk to a particular counterparty,
    borrower or issuer, including sovereign issuers, or to a
    particular clearing house or exchange.

The table below presents the credit concentrations in assets
    held by the firm. As of December 2010 and
    December 2009, the firm did not have credit exposure to any
    other counterparty that exceeded 2% of total assets.

1.  
 
         Included in  Financial instruments owned, at fair
    value  and  Cash and securities segregated for
    regulatory and other purposes. 

2.  
 
         Principally consisting of securities issued by the governments
    of the United Kingdom, Japan and France as of
    December 2010, and the United Kingdom and Japan as of
    December 2009.

The table below presents collateral posted to the firm by
    counterparties to resale agreements and securities borrowed
    transactions (including those in  Cash and

securities segregated for regulatory and other purposes ).
    See Note 9 for further information about collateralized
    agreements and financings.

1.   
     
    Principally consisting of securities issued by the governments
    of France and Germany as of December 2010, and Germany, the
    United Kingdom and Japan as of December 2009.

189

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 29.  Parent
    Company  

Group Inc.   Condensed
    Statements of Earnings  

Group Inc.   Condensed
    Statements of Financial Condition  

Group Inc.   Condensed
    Statements of Cash Flows  

SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES:

Cash payments for
     third-party 
    interest, net of capitalized interest, were $3.07 billion,
    $2.77 billion, $7.18 billion and $248 million for
    the years ended December 2010, December 2009 and
    November 2008 and one month ended December 2008,
    respectively.

Cash payments for income taxes, net of refunds, were
    $2.05 billion, $2.77 billion, $991 million and
    $1 million for the years ended December 2010,
    December 2009 and November 2008 and one month ended
    December 2008, respectively.

190

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Note 30.  Legal
    Proceedings            

The firm is involved in a number of judicial, regulatory and
    arbitration proceedings (including those described below)
    concerning matters arising in connection with the conduct of the
    firm s businesses. Many of these proceedings are at
    preliminary stages, and many of these cases seek an
    indeterminate amount of damages.

With respect to matters described below, management has
    estimated the upper end of the range of reasonably possible loss
    as being equal to (i) the amount of money damages claimed,
    where applicable, (ii) the amount of securities that the
    firm sold in cases involving underwritings where the firm is
    being sued by purchasers and is not being indemnified by a party
    that the firm believes will pay any judgment, or (iii) in
    cases where the purchasers are demanding that the firm
    repurchase securities, the price that purchasers paid for the
    securities less the estimated value, if any, as of
    December 2010 of the relevant securities. As of
    December 2010, the firm has estimated the aggregate amount
    of reasonably possible losses for these matters to be
    approximately $3.4 billion.

Under ASC 450 an event is  reasonably possible 
    if  the chance of the future event or events occurring is
    more than remote but less than likely  and an event is
     remote  if  the chance of the future event or
    events occurring is slight . Thus, references to the upper
    end of the range of reasonably possible loss for cases in which
    the firm is able to estimate a range of reasonably possible loss
    mean the upper end of the range of loss for cases for which the
    firm believes the risk of loss is more than slight. The amounts
    reserved against such matters are not significant as compared to
    the upper end of the range of reasonably possible loss.

Management is unable to estimate a range of reasonably possible
    loss for cases described below in which damages have not been
    specified and (i) the proceedings are in early stages,
    (ii) there is uncertainty as to the likelihood of a class
    being certified or the ultimate size of the class,
    (iii) there is uncertainty as to the outcome of pending
    appeals or motions, (iv) there are significant factual
    issues to be resolved, and/or (v) there are novel legal
    issues presented. However, for these cases, management does not
    believe, based on currently available information, that the
    outcomes of these proceedings will have a material adverse
    effect on the firm s financial condition, though the
    outcomes could be material to the firm s operating results
    for any particular period, depending, in part, upon the
    operating results for such period.

IPO Process Matters.   Group Inc. and
    GS Co. are among the numerous financial services companies
    that have been named as defendants in a variety of lawsuits
    alleging improprieties in the process by which those companies
    participated in the underwriting of public offerings in recent
    years.

GS Co. has, together with other underwriters in certain
    offerings as well as the issuers and certain of their officers
    and directors, been named as a defendant in a number of related
    lawsuits filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
    District of New York alleging, among other things, that the
    prospectuses for the offerings violated the federal securities
    laws by failing to disclose the existence of alleged
    arrangements tying allocations in certain offerings to higher
    customer brokerage commission rates as well as purchase orders
    in the aftermarket, and that the alleged arrangements resulted
    in market manipulation. On October 5, 2009, the
    district court approved a settlement agreement entered into by
    the parties. The firm has paid into a settlement fund the full
    amount that GS Co. would contribute in the proposed
    settlement. On October 23, 2009, certain objectors
    filed a petition in the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
    Second Circuit seeking review of the district court s
    certification of a class for purposes of the settlement, and
    various objectors appealed certain aspects of the
    settlement s approval. Certain of the appeals have been
    withdrawn, and on December 8, 2010,
    January 14, 2011 and February 3, 2011,
    plaintiffs moved to dismiss the remaining appeals.

GS Co. is among numerous underwriting firms named as
    defendants in a number of complaints filed commencing
    October 3, 2007, in the U.S. District Court for
    the Western District of Washington alleging violations of
    Section 16 of the Exchange Act in connection with offerings
    of securities for 15 issuers during 1999 and 2000. The
    complaints generally assert that the underwriters, together with
    each issuer s directors, officers and principal
    shareholders, entered into purported agreements to tie
    allocations in the offerings to increased brokerage commissions
    and aftermarket purchase orders. The complaints further allege
    that, based upon these and other purported agreements, the
    underwriters violated the reporting provisions of, and are
    subject to
     short-swing 
    profit recovery under, Section 16 of the Exchange Act. The
    district court granted defendants  motions to dismiss by a
    decision dated March 12, 2009. On
    December 2, 2010, the appellate court affirmed in part
    and reversed in part, upholding the dismissal of

191

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

seven of the actions in which GS Co. is a defendant but
    remanding the remaining eight actions in which GS Co. is a
    defendant for consideration of other bases for dismissal. On
    December 16, 2010, the underwriters and the plaintiff
    filed petitions for rehearing
     and/or 
    rehearing en banc, which were denied on
    January 18, 2011. The issuance of the mandate has been
    stayed to permit the parties to seek Supreme Court review.

GS Co. has been named as a defendant in an action commenced
    on May 15, 2002 in New York Supreme Court, New York
    County, by an official committee of unsecured creditors on
    behalf of eToys, Inc., alleging that the firm intentionally
    underpriced eToys, Inc. s initial public offering. The
    action seeks, among other things, unspecified compensatory
    damages resulting from the alleged lower amount of offering
    proceeds. The court granted GS Co. s motion to dismiss
    as to five of the claims; plaintiff appealed from the dismissal
    of the five claims, and GS Co. appealed from the denial of
    its motion as to the remaining claim. The New York Appellate
    Division, First Department affirmed in part and reversed in part
    the lower court s ruling on the firm s motion to
    dismiss, permitting all claims to proceed except the claim for
    fraud, as to which the appellate court granted leave to replead,
    and the New York Court of Appeals affirmed in part and reversed
    in part, dismissing claims for breach of contract, professional
    malpractice and unjust enrichment, but permitting claims for
    breach of fiduciary duty and fraud to continue. On remand to the
    lower court, GS Co. moved to dismiss the surviving claims
    or, in the alternative, for summary judgment, but the motion was
    denied by a decision dated March 21, 2006, and the
    court subsequently permitted plaintiff to amend the complaint
    again. On November 8, 2010, GS Co. s motion
    for summary judgment was granted by the lower court; plaintiff
    has appealed.

Group Inc. and certain of its affiliates have, together
    with various underwriters in certain offerings, received
    subpoenas and requests for documents and information from
    various governmental agencies and self-regulatory organizations
    in connection with investigations relating to the public
    offering process. Goldman Sachs has cooperated with these
    investigations.

World Online Litigation.   In March 2001, a
    Dutch shareholders association initiated legal proceedings for
    an unspecified amount of damages against GSI and others in
    Amsterdam District Court in connection with the initial public
    offering of World Online in March 2000, alleging
    misstatements and omissions in

the offering materials and that the market was artificially
    inflated by improper public statements and stabilization
    activities. Goldman Sachs and ABN AMRO Rothschild served as
    joint global coordinators of the approximately
     2.9 billion offering. GSI underwrote
    20,268,846 shares and GS Co. underwrote
    6,756,282 shares for a total offering price of
    approximately  1.16 billion.

The district court rejected the claims against GSI and ABN AMRO,
    but found World Online liable in an amount to be determined. On
    appeal, the Netherlands Court of Appeals affirmed in part and
    reversed in part the decision of the district court holding that
    certain of the alleged disclosure deficiencies were actionable
    as to GSI and ABN AMRO. On further appeal, the Netherlands
    Supreme Court on November 27, 2009 affirmed the
    rulings of the Court of Appeals, except found certain additional
    aspects of the offering materials actionable and held that GSI
    and ABN AMRO could potentially be held responsible for certain
    public statements and press releases by World Online and its
    former CEO. On November 18, 2010, the parties reached
    a settlement in principle, subject to documentation, pursuant to
    which GSI will contribute up to  48 million to a
    settlement fund. The firm has reserved the full amount of
    GSI s proposed contribution to the settlement.

Research Matters.   GS Co. is one of
    several investment firms that have been named as defendants in
    substantively identical purported class actions filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
    alleging violations of the federal securities laws in connection
    with research coverage of certain issuers and seeking
    compensatory damages .   One such action,
    relating to coverage of RSL Communications, Inc., commenced on
    July 15, 2003. The parties entered into a settlement
    agreement on August 23, 2010, which received final
    court approval on February 23, 2011. Under the settlement
    agreement, GS Co. paid approximately $3.38 million.

Group Inc. and GS Co. were named as defendants in a
    purported class action filed on July 18, 2003 on
    behalf of purchasers of Group Inc. stock from
    July 1, 1999 through May 7, 2002. The
    complaint in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
    District of New York, alleged that defendants breached their
    fiduciary duties and violated the federal securities laws in
    connection with the firm s research activities and sought,
    among other things, unspecified compensatory damages and/or
    rescission. On July 12, 2010, the parties entered into
    a settlement agreement pursuant to which the settlement has

192

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

been funded by the firm s insurers. The settlement received
    court approval on December 15, 2010 and has become
    final.

Group Inc. and certain of its affiliates are subject to a
    number of investigations and reviews by various governmental and
    regulatory bodies and
     self-regulatory 
    organizations relating to research practices, including
    communications among research analysts, sales and trading
    personnel and clients. Goldman Sachs is cooperating with the
    investigations and reviews.

Adelphia Communications Fraudulent Conveyance
    Litigation.   GS Co. is among numerous
    entities named as defendants in two adversary proceedings
    commenced in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern
    District of New York, one on July 6, 2003 by a
    creditors committee, and the second on or about
    July 31, 2003 by an equity committee of Adelphia
    Communications, Inc. Those proceedings have now been
    consolidated in a single amended complaint filed by the Adelphia
    Recovery Trust on October 31, 2007. The complaint
    seeks, among other things, to recover, as fraudulent
    conveyances, payments made allegedly by Adelphia Communications,
    Inc. and its affiliates to certain brokerage firms, including
    approximately $62.9 million allegedly paid to GS Co.,
    in respect of margin calls made in the ordinary course of
    business on accounts owned by members of the family that
    formerly controlled Adelphia Communications, Inc. By a decision
    dated June 15, 2009, the district court required
    plaintiff to amend its complaint to specify the source of the
    margin payments to GS Co. By a decision dated
    July 30, 2009, the district court held that the
    sufficiency of the amended claim would be determined at the
    summary judgment stage. On March 2, 2010, GS Co.
    moved for summary judgment.

Specialist Matters.   Spear, Leeds  
    Kellogg Specialists LLC (SLKS) and certain affiliates have
    received requests for information from various governmental
    agencies and self-regulatory organizations as part of an
     industry-wide 
    investigation relating to activities of floor specialists in
    recent years. Goldman Sachs has cooperated with the requests.

On March 30, 2004, certain specialist firms on the
    NYSE, including SLKS, without admitting or denying the
    allegations, entered into a final global settlement with the SEC
    and the NYSE covering certain activities during the years 1999
    through 2003. The SLKS settlement involves, among other things,
    (i) findings by the SEC and the NYSE that SLKS violated
    certain federal securities laws and NYSE rules, and in some
    cases failed to supervise certain individual specialists, in
    connection with trades that allegedly disadvantaged customer
    orders, (ii) a cease and desist order against SLKS,
    (iii) a censure of SLKS, (iv) SLKS  agreement to
    pay an aggregate of $45.3 million in disgorgement and a
    penalty to be used to compensate customers, (v) certain
    undertakings with respect to SLKS  systems and procedures,
    and (vi) SLKS  retention of an independent consultant
    to review and evaluate certain of SLKS  compliance systems,
    policies and procedures. Comparable findings were made and
    sanctions imposed in the settlements with other specialist
    firms. The settlement did not resolve the related private civil
    actions against SLKS and other firms or regulatory
    investigations involving individuals or conduct on other
    exchanges.

SLKS, Spear, Leeds   Kellogg, L.P. and Group Inc.
    are among numerous defendants named in purported class actions
    brought beginning in October 2003 on behalf of investors in
    the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New
    York alleging violations of the federal securities laws and
    state common law in connection with NYSE floor specialist
    activities. The actions, which have been consolidated, seek
    unspecified compensatory damages, restitution and disgorgement
    on behalf of purchasers and sellers of unspecified securities
    between October 17, 1998 and
    October 15, 2003. By a decision dated
    March 14, 2009, the district court granted
    plaintiffs  motion for class certification. The
    defendants  petition with the U.S. Court of Appeals
    for the Second Circuit seeking review of the certification
    ruling was denied by an order dated October 1, 2009.
    The specialist defendants  petition for a rehearing
     and/or 
    rehearing en banc was denied on February 24, 2010.

193

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Treasury Matters.   GS Co. has been named
    as a defendant in a purported class action filed on
    March 10, 2004 in the U.S. District Court for the
    Northern District of Illinois on behalf of holders of short
    positions in
     30-year 
    U.S. Treasury futures and options on the morning of
    October 31, 2001. The complaint alleges that the firm
    purchased
     30-year 
    bonds and futures prior to a forthcoming Treasury refunding
    announcement that morning based on
     non-public 
    information about that announcement, and that such purchases
    increased the costs of covering such short positions. The
    complaint also names as defendants the Washington, D.C.-based
    political consultant who allegedly was the source of the
    information, a former GS Co. economist who allegedly
    received the information, and another company and one of its
    employees who also allegedly received and traded on the
    information prior to its public announcement. The complaint
    alleges violations of the federal commodities and antitrust
    laws, as well as Illinois statutory and common law, and seeks,
    among other things, unspecified damages including treble damages
    under the antitrust laws. The district court dismissed the
    antitrust and Illinois state law claims but permitted the
    federal commodities law claims to proceed. Plaintiff s
    motion for class certification was denied by a decision dated
    August 22, 2008. GS Co. moved for summary
    judgment, and the district court granted the motion but only
    insofar as the claim relates to the trading of treasury bonds.
    On October 13, 2009, the parties filed an offer of
    judgment and notice of acceptance with respect to
    plaintiff s individual claim. On
    December 11, 2009, the plaintiff purported to appeal
    with respect to the district court s prior denial of class
    certification, and GS Co. moved to dismiss the appeal on
    January 25, 2010. By an order dated
    April 13, 2010, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
    Seventh Circuit ruled that GS Co. s motion would be
    entertained together with the merits of the appeal.

Mutual Fund Matters.   GS Co. and
    certain mutual fund affiliates have received subpoenas and
    requests for information from various governmental agencies and
    self-regulatory organizations including the SEC as part of the
     industry-wide 
    investigation relating to the practices of mutual funds and
    their customers. GS Co. and its affiliates have cooperated
    with such requests.

Refco Securities Litigation.   GS Co. and
    the other lead underwriters for the August 2005 initial
    public offering of 26.5 million shares of common stock
    of Refco Inc. are among the defendants in various putative class
    actions filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
    District of New York beginning in October 2005 by investors
    in Refco Inc. in response to certain publicly reported events
    that culminated in the October 17, 2005 filing by
    Refco Inc. and certain affiliates for protection under
    U.S. bankruptcy laws. The actions, which have been
    consolidated, allege violations of the disclosure requirements
    of the federal securities laws and seek compensatory damages. In
    addition to the underwriters, the consolidated complaint names
    as defendants Refco Inc. and certain of its affiliates, certain
    officers and directors of Refco Inc., Thomas H. Lee Partners,
    L.P. (which held a majority of Refco Inc. s equity through
    certain funds it manages), Grant Thornton (Refco Inc. s
    outside auditor), and BAWAG P.S.K. Bank fur Arbeit und
    Wirtschaft und Osterreichische Postsparkasse Aktiengesellschaft
    (BAWAG). Lead plaintiffs entered into a settlement with BAWAG,
    which was approved following certain amendments on
    June 29, 2007. GS Co. underwrote
    5,639,200 shares of common stock at a price of $22 per
    share for a total offering price of approximately
    $124 million. On April 20, 2010, certain
    underwriting defendants including GS Co. entered into a
    settlement of the action, pursuant to which they will contribute
    $49.5 million to a settlement fund. The settlement received
    court approval on October 27, 2010 and has become
    final.

GS Co. has, together with other underwriters of the Refco
    Inc. initial public offering, received requests for information
    from various governmental agencies and self-regulatory
    organizations. GS Co. has cooperated with those requests.

Fannie Mae Litigation.   GS Co. was added
    as a defendant in an amended complaint filed on
    August 14, 2006 in a purported class action pending in
    the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia. The
    complaint asserts violations of the federal securities laws
    generally arising from allegations concerning Fannie Mae s
    accounting practices in connection with certain Fannie
    Mae-sponsored REMIC transactions that were allegedly arranged by
    GS Co. The complaint does not specify a dollar amount of
    damages. The other defendants include Fannie Mae, certain of its
    past and present officers and directors, and accountants. By a
    decision dated May 8, 2007, the

194

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

district court granted GS Co. s motion to dismiss the
    claim against it. The time for an appeal will not begin to run
    until disposition of the claims against other defendants.

Beginning in September 2006, Group Inc.
     and/or 
    GS Co.  were named as defendants in four Fannie
    Mae shareholder derivative actions in the U.S. District
    Court for the District of Columbia. The complaints generally
    allege that the Goldman Sachs defendants aided and abetted a
    breach of fiduciary duty by Fannie Mae s directors and
    officers in connection with certain Fannie Mae-sponsored REMIC
    transactions and one of the complaints also asserts a breach of
    contract claim. The complaints also name as defendants certain
    former officers and directors of Fannie Mae as well as an
    outside accounting firm. The complaints seek,  inter alia ,
    unspecified damages. The Goldman Sachs defendants were dismissed
    without prejudice from the first filed of these actions, and the
    remaining claims in that action were dismissed for failure to
    make a demand on Fannie Mae s board of directors. That
    dismissal has been affirmed on appeal. The district court
    dismissed the remaining three actions on
    July 28, 2010. The plaintiffs filed motions for
    reconsideration, which were denied on
    October 22, 2010, and have revised their notices of
    appeal in these actions.

Compensation-Related Litigation.   On
    January 17, 2008, Group Inc., its Board,
    executive officers and members of its management committee were
    named as defendants in a purported shareholder derivative action
    in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of New
    York predicting that the firm s 2008 Proxy Statement will
    violate the federal securities laws by undervaluing certain
    stock option awards and alleging that senior management received
    excessive compensation for 2007. The complaint seeks, among
    other things, an injunction against the distribution of the 2008
    Proxy Statement, the voiding of any election of directors in the
    absence of an injunction and an equitable accounting for the
    allegedly excessive compensation. On January 25, 2008,
    the plaintiff moved for a preliminary injunction to prevent the
    2008 Proxy Statement from using options valuations that the
    plaintiff alleges are incorrect and to require the amendment of
    SEC Form 4s filed by certain of the executive officers
    named in the complaint to reflect the stock option valuations
    alleged by the plaintiff. Plaintiff s motion for a
    preliminary injunction was denied, and plaintiff s appeal
    from this denial was dismissed. On February 13, 2009,
    the plaintiff filed an

amended complaint, which added purported direct
     (i.e., non-derivative) 
    claims based on substantially the same theory. The plaintiff
    filed a further amended complaint on March 24, 2010,
    and the defendants  motion to dismiss this further amended
    complaint was granted on September 30, 2010. On
    October 22, 2010, the plaintiff filed a notice of
    appeal from the dismissal of his complaint.

On March 24, 2009, the same plaintiff filed an action
    in New York Supreme Court, New York County against
    Group Inc., its directors and certain senior executives
    alleging violation of Delaware statutory and common law in
    connection with substantively similar allegations regarding
    stock option awards. On April 14, 2009,
    Group Inc. removed the action to the U.S. District
    Court for the Southern District of New York and has moved to
    transfer to the district court judge presiding over the other
    actions described in this section and to dismiss. The action was
    transferred on consent to the U.S. District Court for the
    Eastern District of New York, where defendants moved to dismiss
    on April 23, 2009. On July 10, 2009,
    plaintiff moved to remand the action to state court, and this
    motion was granted on July 29, 2010. On
    January 7, 2011, the plaintiff filed an amended
    complaint.

Purported shareholder derivative actions have been commenced in
    New York Supreme Court, New York County and Delaware Court of
    Chancery beginning on December 14, 2009, alleging that
    the Board breached its fiduciary duties in connection with
    setting compensation levels for the year 2009 and that such
    levels are excessive. The complaints name as defendants
    Group Inc., the Board and certain senior executives. The
    complaints seek,  inter alia , unspecified damages,
    restitution of certain compensation paid, and an order requiring
    the firm to adopt corporate reforms. In the actions in New York
    state court, on April 8, 2010, the plaintiffs filed a
    motion indicating that they no longer intend to pursue their
    claims but are seeking an award of attorney s fees in
    connection with bringing the suit, which the defendants have
    opposed. In the actions brought in the Delaware Court of
    Chancery, the defendants moved to dismiss on
    March 9, 2010, and the plaintiffs amended their
    complaint on April 28, 2010 to include, among other
    things, the allegations included in the SEC s action
    described in the
      Mortgage-Related 
    Matters  section below. The defendants moved to dismiss
    this amended complaint on May 12, 2010. In lieu of
    responding to defendants  motion, plaintiffs moved on
    December 8, 2010 for permission to file a further

195

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

amended complaint, which the defendants had opposed. The court
    granted plaintiffs  motion to amend on
    January 19, 2011, and the defendants moved to dismiss
    the second amended complaint on February 4, 2011.

Group Inc. and certain of its affiliates are subject to a
    number of investigations and reviews from various governmental
    agencies and self-regulatory organizations regarding the
    firm s compensation processes. The firm is cooperating with
    the investigations and reviews.

Mortgage-Related 
    Matters.   On April 16, 2010, the SEC
    brought an action (SEC Action) under the U.S. federal
    securities laws in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
    District of New York against GS Co. and Fabrice Tourre, one
    of its employees, in connection with a CDO offering made in
    early 2007 (ABACUS
     2007-AC1 
    transaction), alleging that the defendants made materially false
    and misleading statements to investors and seeking, among other
    things, unspecified monetary penalties. Investigations of
    GS Co. by FINRA and of GSI by the U.K. Financial Services
    Authority (FSA) were subsequently initiated, and Group Inc.
    and certain of its affiliates have received requests for
    information from other regulators, regarding CDO offerings,
    including the ABACUS
     2007-AC1 
    transaction, and related matters.

On July 14, 2010, GS Co. entered into a consent
    agreement with the SEC, settling all claims made against
    GS Co. in the SEC Action (SEC Settlement), pursuant to
    which, GS Co. paid $550 million of disgorgement and
    civil penalties, and which was approved by the U.S. District
    Court for the Southern District of New York on July 20,
    2010.

On September 9, 2010, the FSA announced a settlement
    with GSI pursuant to which the FSA found that GSI violated
    certain FSA principles by failing to (i) provide
    notification about the SEC Wells Notice issued to
    Mr. Tourre (who worked on the ABACUS
     2007-AC1 
    transaction but subsequently transferred to GSI and became
    registered with the FSA) and (ii) have procedures and
    controls to ensure that GSI s Compliance Department would
    be alerted to various aspects of the SEC investigation so as to
    be in a position to determine whether any aspects were
    reportable to the FSA. The FSA assessed a fine of
     17.5 million.

On November 9, 2010, FINRA announced a settlement with
    GS Co. relating to GS Co. s failure to file
    Form U4 updates within 30 days of learning of the
    receipt of Wells

Notices by Mr. Tourre and another employee as well as
    deficiencies in the firm s systems and controls for such
    filings. FINRA assessed a fine of $650,000 and GS Co.
    agreed to undertake a review and remediation of the applicable
    systems and controls.

On January 6, 2011, ACA Financial Guaranty
    Corp.  filed an action against GS Co. in respect
    of the ABACUS
     2007-AC1 
    transaction in New York Supreme Court, New York County. The
    complaint includes allegations of fraudulent inducement,
    fraudulent concealment and unjust enrichment and seeks at least
    $30 million in compensatory damages, at least
    $90 million in punitive damages and unspecified
    disgorgement.

Since April 22, 2010, a number of putative shareholder
    derivative actions have been filed in New York Supreme Court,
    New York County, and the U.S. District Court for the
    Southern District of New York against Group Inc., the Board
    and certain officers and employees of Group Inc. and its
    affiliates in connection with
     mortgage-related 
    matters between 2004 and 2007, including the ABACUS
     2007-AC1 
    transaction and other CDO offerings. These derivative complaints
    generally include allegations of breach of fiduciary duty,
    corporate waste, abuse of control, mismanagement, unjust
    enrichment, misappropriation of information, securities fraud
    and insider trading, and challenge the accuracy and adequacy of
    Group Inc. s disclosure. These derivative complaints
    seek, among other things, declaratory relief, unspecified
    compensatory damages, restitution and certain corporate
    governance reforms. The New York Supreme Court has consolidated
    the two actions pending in that court. Certain plaintiffs in the
    federal court cases have moved to consolidate these actions and
    to appoint lead plaintiff and lead counsel. In addition, as
    described in the  Compensation-Related Litigation 
    section above, the plaintiffs in the compensation-related
    Delaware Court of Chancery actions have amended their complaint
    to assert, among other things, allegations similar to those in
    the derivative claims referred to above, the defendants moved to
    dismiss this amended complaint, and the plaintiffs then sought
    permission to amend further, which the court granted on
    January 19, 2011. The defendants moved to dismiss the
    second amended complaint on February 4, 2011.

196

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Since April 23, 2010, the Board has received letters
    from shareholders demanding that the Board take action to
    address alleged misconduct by GS Co., the Board and certain
    officers and employees of Group Inc. and its affiliates.
    The demands generally allege misconduct in connection with the
    ABACUS
     2007-AC1 
    transaction, the alleged failure by Group Inc. to
    adequately disclose the SEC investigation that led to the SEC
    Action, and Group Inc. s 2009 compensation practices.
    The demands include a letter from a Group Inc. shareholder,
    which previously made a demand that the Board investigate and
    take action in connection with auction products matters, and has
    now expanded its demand to address the foregoing matters. The
    Board previously rejected the demands relating to auction
    products matters.

In addition, beginning April 26, 2010, a number of
    purported securities law class actions have been filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
    challenging the adequacy of Group Inc. s public
    disclosure of, among other things, the firm s activities in
    the CDO market and the SEC investigation that led to the SEC
    Action. The purported class action complaints, which name as
    defendants Group Inc. and certain officers and employees of
    Group Inc. and its affiliates, generally allege violations
    of Sections 10(b) and 20(a) of the Exchange Act and seek
    unspecified damages. On June 25, 2010, certain
    shareholders and groups of shareholders moved to consolidate
    these actions and to appoint lead plaintiffs and lead counsel.

GS Co., Goldman Sachs Mortgage Company and GS Mortgage
    Securities Corp. and three current or former Goldman Sachs
    employees are defendants in a putative class action commenced on
    December 11, 2008 in the U.S. District Court for
    the Southern District of New York brought on behalf of
    purchasers of various mortgage pass-through certificates and
     asset-backed 
    certificates issued by various securitization trusts in 2007 and
    underwritten by GS Co. The second amended complaint
    generally alleges that the registration statement and prospectus
    supplements for the certificates violated the federal securities
    laws, and seeks unspecified compensatory damages and rescission
    or recessionary damages. Defendants  motion to dismiss the
    second amended complaint was granted on
    January 28, 2010 with leave to replead certain claims.
    On March 31, 2010, the plaintiff filed a third amended
    complaint relating to two offerings, which the defendants moved
    to dismiss on June 22, 2010. This motion to dismiss
    was denied as

to the plaintiff s Section 12(a)(2) claims on
    September 22, 2010, and granted as to the
    plaintiff s Section 11 claims on
    October 15, 2010, and the plaintiff s motion for
    reconsideration was denied on November 17, 2010. On
    December 9, 2010, the plaintiff filed a motion for
    entry of final judgment or certification of an interlocutory
    appeal as to plaintiff s Section 11 claims, which was
    denied on January 11, 2011. On June 3, 2010,
    another investor (who had unsuccessfully sought to intervene in
    the action) filed a separate putative class action asserting
    substantively similar allegations relating to an additional
    offering pursuant to the 2007 registration statement. The
    defendants moved to dismiss this separate action on
    November 1, 2010. GS Co. underwrote approximately
    $951 million principal amount of certificates to all
    purchasers in the offerings at issue in the complaint (excluding
    those offerings for which the claims have been dismissed).

Group Inc., GS Co., Goldman Sachs Mortgage Company and
    GS Mortgage Securities Corp. are among the defendants in a
    separate putative class action commenced on
    February 6, 2009 in the U.S. District Court for
    the Southern District of New York brought on behalf of
    purchasers of various mortgage pass-through certificates and
     asset-backed 
    certificates issued by various securitization trusts in 2006 and
    underwritten by GS Co. The other defendants include three
    current or former Goldman Sachs employees and various rating
    agencies. The second amended complaint generally alleges that
    the registration statement and prospectus supplements for the
    certificates violated the federal securities laws, and seeks
    unspecified compensatory and rescissionary damages. Defendants
    moved to dismiss the second amended complaint. On
    January 12, 2011, the district court granted the
    motion to dismiss with respect to offerings in which plaintiff
    had not purchased securities, but denied the motion to dismiss
    with respect to a single offering in which the plaintiff
    allegedly purchased securities. GS Co. underwrote
    approximately $698 million principal amount of certificates
    to all purchasers in the offerings at issue in the complaint
    (excluding those offerings for which the claims have been
    dismissed).

On September 30, 2010, a putative class action was
    filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District
    of New York against GS Co., Group Inc. and two former
    GS Co. employees on behalf of investors in notes issued in
    2006 and 2007 by two synthetic CDOs (Hudson Mezzanine
     2006-1  and
     2006-2).  The

197

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

complaint, which was amended on February 4, 2011, asserts
    federal securities law and common law claims, and seeks
    unspecified compensatory, punitive and other damages.

Various alleged purchasers of, and counterparties involved in
    transactions relating to, mortgage
     pass-through 
    certificates, CDOs and other
     mortgage-related 
    products (including the Federal Home Loan Banks of Seattle,
    Chicago and Indianapolis, the Charles Schwab Corporation,
    Cambridge Place Investment Management Inc., Basis Yield Alpha
    Fund (Master) and Landesbank
     Baden-W rttemberg, 
    among others) have filed complaints in state and federal court
    against firm affiliates, generally alleging that the offering
    documents for the securities that they purchased contained
    untrue statements of material facts and material omissions and
    generally seeking rescission and damages. Certain of these
    complaints also name other firms as defendants. Additionally,
    the National Credit Union Administration (NCUA) has stated that
    it intends to pursue similar claims on behalf of certain credit
    unions for which it acts as conservator, and the firm and the
    NCUA have entered into an agreement tolling the relevant
    statutes of limitation. A number of other entities have
    threatened to assert claims against the firm in connection with
    various mortgage-related offerings, and the firm has entered
    into agreements with a number of these entities to toll the
    relevant statute of limitations. The firm estimates, based on
    currently available information, that the aggregate cumulative
    losses experienced by the plaintiffs with respect to the
    securities at issue in active cases brought against the firm
    where purchasers are seeking rescission of mortgage-related
    securities was approximately $457 million as of
    December 2010. This amount was calculated as the aggregate
    amount by which the initial purchase price for the securities
    allegedly purchased by the plaintiffs exceeds the estimated
    December 2010 value of those securities. This estimate does
    not include the potential NCUA claims or any claims by other
    purchasers in the same or other mortgage-related offerings that
    have not actually brought claims against the firm.

The firm has also received requests for information from
    regulators relating to the
     mortgage-related 
    securitization process, subprime mortgages, CDOs, synthetic
     mortgage-related 
    products, particular transactions, and servicing and foreclosure
    activities, and is cooperating with the requests.

The firm expects to be the subject of additional putative
    shareholder derivative actions, purported class actions,
    rescission and  put back  claims and other litigation,

additional investor and shareholder demands, and additional
    regulatory and other investigations and actions with respect to
     mortgage-related 
    offerings, loan sales, CDOs, and servicing and foreclosure
    activities. See Note 18 for further information regarding
     mortgage-related 
    contingencies.

GS Co., along with numerous other financial institutions,
    is a defendant in an action brought by the City of Cleveland
    alleging that the defendants  activities in connection with
    securitizations of subprime mortgages created a  public
    nuisance  in Cleveland. The action is pending in the
    U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Ohio, and
    the complaint seeks, among other things, unspecified
    compensatory damages. The district court granted
    defendants  motion to dismiss by a decision dated
    May 15, 2009. The City appealed on
    May 18, 2009. The appellate court affirmed the
    complaint s dismissal by a decision dated
    July 27, 2010 and, on October 14, 2010,
    denied the City s petition for rehearing en banc. On
    January 12, 2011, the City filed a petition for writ
    of certiorari with the U.S. Supreme Court.

Auction Products Matters.   On
    August 21, 2008, GS Co. entered into a settlement
    in principle with the Office of the Attorney General of the
    State of New York and the Illinois Securities Department (on
    behalf of the North American Securities Administrators
    Association) regarding auction rate securities. Under the
    agreement, Goldman Sachs agreed, among other things, (i) to
    offer to repurchase at par the outstanding auction rate
    securities that its private wealth management clients purchased
    through the firm prior to February 11, 2008, with the
    exception of those auction rate securities where auctions are
    clearing, (ii) to continue to work with issuers and other
    interested parties, including regulatory and governmental
    entities, to expeditiously provide liquidity solutions for
    institutional investors, and (iii) to pay a
    $22.5 million fine. The settlement is subject to definitive
    documentation and approval by the various states. On
    June 2, 2009, GS Co. entered into an Assurance of
    Discontinuance with the New York State Attorney General. On
    March 19, 2010, GS Co. entered into an
    Administrative Consent Order with the Illinois Secretary of
    State, Securities Department, which had conducted an
    investigation on behalf of states other than New York.
    GS Co has entered into similar consent orders with most
    states and is in the process of doing so with the remaining
    states.

On August 28, 2008, a putative shareholder derivative
    action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
    Southern District of New York naming as defendants
    Group Inc., the Board, and certain senior officers. The
    complaint alleges generally that the Board breached its

198

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

fiduciary duties and committed mismanagement in connection with
    its oversight of auction rate securities marketing and trading
    operations, that certain individual defendants engaged in
    insider selling by selling shares of Group Inc., and that
    the firm s public filings were false and misleading in
    violation of the federal securities laws by failing to
    accurately disclose the alleged practices involving auction rate
    securities. The complaint seeks damages, injunctive and
    declaratory relief, restitution, and an order requiring the firm
    to adopt corporate reforms. On May 19, 2009, the
    district court granted defendants  motion to dismiss, and
    on July 20, 2009 denied plaintiffs  motion for
    reconsideration. Following the dismissal of the shareholder
    derivative action, the named plaintiff in such action sent the
    Board a letter demanding that the Board investigate the
    allegations set forth in the complaint, and the Board ultimately
    rejected the demand.

On September 4, 2008, Group Inc. was named as a
    defendant, together with numerous other financial services
    firms, in two complaints filed in the U.S. District Court
    for the Southern District of New York alleging that the
    defendants engaged in a conspiracy to manipulate the auction
    securities market in violation of federal antitrust laws. The
    actions were filed, respectively, on behalf of putative classes
    of issuers of and investors in auction rate securities and seek,
    among other things, treble damages in an unspecified amount.
    Defendants  motion to dismiss was granted on
    January 26, 2010. On March 1, 2010, the
    plaintiffs filed a notice of appeal from the dismissal of their
    complaints.

Private Equity-Sponsored Acquisitions
    Litigation.   Group Inc. and  GS Capital
    Partners  are among numerous private equity firms and
    investment banks named as defendants in a federal antitrust
    action filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of
    Massachusetts in December 2007. As amended, the complaint
    generally alleges that the defendants have colluded to limit
    competition in bidding for private
     equity-sponsored 
    acquisitions of public companies, thereby resulting in lower
    prevailing bids and, by extension, less consideration for
    shareholders of those companies in violation of Section 1
    of the U.S. Sherman Antitrust Act and common law. The
    complaint seeks, among other things, treble damages in an
    unspecified amount. Defendants moved to dismiss on
    August 27, 2008. The district court dismissed claims
    relating to certain transactions that were the subject of
    releases as part of the settlement of shareholder actions
    challenging such transactions, and by an order dated
    December 15, 2008 otherwise denied the motion to
    dismiss. On

April 26, 2010, the plaintiffs moved for leave to
    proceed with a second phase of discovery encompassing additional
    transactions. On August 18, 2010, the court permitted
    discovery on eight additional transactions, and the plaintiffs
    filed a fourth amended complaint on October 7, 2010.
    The defendants filed a motion to dismiss certain aspects of the
    fourth amended complaint on October 21, 2010, and the
    court granted that motion on January 13, 2011.

Washington Mutual Securities
    Litigation.   GS Co. is among numerous
    underwriters named as defendants in a putative securities class
    action amended complaint filed on August 5, 2008 in
    the U.S. District Court for the Western District of
    Washington. As to the underwriters, plaintiffs allege that the
    offering documents in connection with various securities
    offerings by Washington Mutual, Inc. failed to describe
    accurately the company s exposure to
     mortgage-related 
    activities in violation of the disclosure requirements of the
    federal securities laws. The defendants include past and present
    directors and officers of Washington Mutual, the company s
    former outside auditors, and numerous underwriters. By a
    decision dated May 15, 2009, the district court
    granted in part and denied in part the underwriter
    defendants  motion to dismiss, with leave to replead and,
    on June 15, 2009, plaintiffs filed an amended
    complaint. By a decision dated October 27, 2009, the
    federal district court granted and denied in part the
    underwriters  motion to dismiss. On
    October 12, 2010, the court granted class
    certification (except as to one transaction). On
    December 1, 2010, the defendants moved for partial
    judgment on the pleadings as to two of the offerings. By a
    decision dated January 28, 2011, the district court
    denied the defendants  motion for partial judgment on the
    pleadings.

GS Co. underwrote approximately $520 million principal
    amount of securities to all purchasers in the offerings at issue
    in the complaint (excluding those offerings for which the claims
    have been dismissed).

On September 25, 2008, the FDIC took over the primary
    banking operations of Washington Mutual, Inc. and then sold
    them. On September 27, 2008, Washington Mutual, Inc.
    filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy in the U.S. bankruptcy
    court in Delaware.

199

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

IndyMac Pass-Through Certificates
    Litigation.   GS Co. is among numerous
    underwriters named as defendants in a putative securities class
    action filed on May 14, 2009 in the U.S. District
    Court for the Southern District of New York. As to the
    underwriters, plaintiffs allege that the offering documents in
    connection with various securitizations of
     mortgage-related 
    assets violated the disclosure requirements of the federal
    securities laws. The defendants include
     IndyMac-related 
    entities formed in connection with the securitizations, the
    underwriters of the offerings, certain ratings agencies which
    evaluated the credit quality of the securities, and certain
    former officers and directors of IndyMac affiliates. On
    November 2, 2009, the underwriters moved to dismiss
    the complaint. The motion was granted in part on
    February 17, 2010 to the extent of dismissing claims
    based on offerings in which no plaintiff purchased, and the
    court reserved judgment as to the other aspects of the motion.
    By a decision dated June 21, 2010, the district court
    formally dismissed all claims relating to offerings in which no
    named plaintiff purchased certificates (including all offerings
    underwritten by GS Co.), and both granted and denied the
    defendants  motions to dismiss in various other respects.
    On May 17, 2010, four additional investors filed a
    motion seeking to intervene in order to assert claims based on
    additional offerings (including two underwritten by
    GS Co.). On July 6, 2010, another additional
    investor filed a motion to intervene in order to assert claims
    based on additional offerings (none of which were underwritten
    by GS Co.).

GS Co. underwrote approximately $751 million principal
    amount of securities to all purchasers in the offerings at issue
    in the May 2010 motion to intervene. On
    July 11, 2008, IndyMac Bank was placed under an FDIC
    receivership, and on July 31, 2008, IndyMac Bancorp,
    Inc. filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in the
    U.S. Bankruptcy Court in Los Angeles, California.

Employment-Related Matters.   On
    May 27, 2010, a putative class action was filed in the
    U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York
    by several contingent technology workers who were employees of
     third-party 
    vendors. The plaintiffs are seeking overtime pay for alleged
    hours worked in excess of 40 per work week. The complaint
    alleges that the plaintiffs were de facto employees of
    GS Co. and that GS Co. is responsible for the overtime
    pay under federal and state overtime laws. The complaint seeks
    class action status and unspecified damages.

On September 15, 2010, a putative class action was
    filed in the U.S. District for the Southern District of New
    York by three former female employees alleging that
    Group Inc. and GS Co. have systematically
    discriminated against female employees in respect of
    compensation, promotion, assignments, mentoring and performance
    evaluations. The complaint alleges a class consisting of all
    female employees employed at specified levels by Group Inc.
    and GS Co. since July 2002, and asserts claims under
    federal and New York City discrimination laws. The complaint
    seeks class action status, injunctive relief and unspecified
    amounts of compensatory, punitive and other damages. On
    November 22, 2010, Group Inc. and GS Co.
    filed a motion to stay the claims of one of the named plaintiffs
    and to compel individual arbitration with that individual, based
    on an arbitration provision contained in an employment agreement
    between Group Inc. and the individual.

Transactions with the Hellenic Republic
    (Greece).   Group Inc. and certain of its
    affiliates are subject to a number of investigations and reviews
    by various governmental and regulatory bodies and
     self-regulatory organizations 
    in connection with the firm s transactions with the
    Hellenic Republic (Greece), including financing and swap
    transactions. Goldman Sachs is cooperating with the
    investigations and reviews.

Sales, Trading and Clearance
    Practices.   Group Inc. and certain of its
    affiliates are subject to a number of investigations and reviews
    by various governmental and regulatory bodies and
     self-regulatory 
    organizations relating to the sales, trading and clearance of
    corporate and government securities and other financial
    products, including compliance with the SEC s short sale
    rule, algorithmic and quantitative trading, futures trading,
    securities lending practices, trading of credit derivative
    instruments, commodities trading and the effectiveness of
    insider trading controls and internal information barriers.
    Goldman Sachs is cooperating with the investigations and reviews.

200

Table of Contents   

THE GOLDMAN SACHS
    GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

NOTES TO
    CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)  

Municipal Securities Matters.   Group Inc.
    and certain of its affiliates are subject to a number of
    investigations and reviews by various governmental and
    regulatory bodies and self-regulatory organizations relating to
    transactions involving municipal securities, including
    wall-cross procedures and conflict of interest disclosure with
    respect to state and municipal clients, the trading of municipal
    derivative instruments in connection with municipal offerings,
    political contribution rules and the possible impact of credit
    default swap transactions on municipal issuers. Goldman Sachs is
    cooperating with the investigations and reviews.

Group Inc., Goldman Sachs Mitsui Marine Derivative
    Products, L.P. (GSMMDP) and GS Bank USA are among numerous
    financial services firms that have been named as defendants in
    numerous substantially identical individual antitrust actions
    filed beginning on November 12, 2009 that have been
    coordinated with related antitrust class action litigation and
    individual actions, in which no Goldman Sachs affiliate is
    named, for
     pre-trial 
    proceedings in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
    District of New York. The plaintiffs include individual
    California municipal entities and three New York
     non-profit 
    entities. On April 26, 2010, the Goldman Sachs
    defendants  motion to dismiss complaints filed by

several individual California municipal plaintiffs was denied.
    All of these complaints against Group Inc., GSMMDP and
    GS Bank USA generally allege that the Goldman Sachs
    defendants participated in a conspiracy to arrange bids, fix
    prices and divide up the market for derivatives used by
    municipalities in refinancing and hedging transactions from 1992
    to 2008. The complaints assert claims under the federal
    antitrust laws and either California s Cartwright Act or
    New York s Donnelly Act, and seek, among other things,
    treble damages under the antitrust laws in an unspecified amount
    and injunctive relief.

Financial Crisis-Related
    Matters.   Group Inc. and certain of its
    affiliates are subject to a number of investigations and reviews
    by various governmental and regulatory bodies and
    self-regulatory organizations relating to the 2008 financial
    crisis, including the establishment and unwind of credit default
    swaps between Goldman Sachs and American International Group,
    Inc. (AIG) and other transactions with, and in the securities
    of, AIG, The Bear Stearns Companies Inc., Lehman Brothers
    Holdings Inc. and other firms. Goldman Sachs is cooperating with
    the investigations and reviews.

201

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Quarterly Results (unaudited) 

The following represents the firm s unaudited quarterly
    results for the fiscal years ended December 2010 and
    December 2009. These quarterly results were prepared in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting

principles and reflect all adjustments that are, in the opinion
    of management, necessary for a fair statement of the results.
    These adjustments are of a normal recurring nature.

1.   
     
    The timing and magnitude of changes in the firm s
    discretionary compensation accruals can have a significant
    effect on results in a given quarter.

202

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Common Stock
    Price Range  

The table below presents the high and low sales prices per share
    of the firm s common stock.

As of February 11, 2011, there were 12,165 holders of
    record of the firm s common stock.

On February 11, 2011, the last reported sales price for the
    firm s common stock on the New York Stock Exchange was
    $166.66 per share.

203

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Selected
    Financial Data  

204

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Statistical
    Disclosures  

Distribution of
    Assets, Liabilities and Shareholders  Equity  

The table below presents a summary of consolidated average
    balances and interest rates.

205

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

1.  
 
         Consists of cash financial instruments, including equity
    securities and convertible debentures.

2.  
 
         Derivative instruments and commodities are included in other
    noninterest-earning assets and other noninterest-bearing
    liabilities.

3.  
 
         Primarily consists of cash and securities segregated for
    regulatory and other purposes and certain receivables from
    customers and counterparties.

4.  
 
         Consists of
     short-term 
    other secured financings and unsecured
     short-term 
    borrowings, excluding commercial paper.

5.  
 
         Interest rates include the effects of interest rate swaps
    accounted for as hedges.

6.  
 
         Consists of
     long-term 
    other secured financings and unsecured
     long-term 
    borrowings.

7.  
 
         Primarily consists of certain payables to customers and
    counterparties.

8.  
 
         Assets, liabilities and interest are attributed to U.S. and
     non-U.S. based 
    on the location of the legal entity in which the assets and
    liabilities are held.

206

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Changes in Net
    Interest Income, Volume and Rate 
    Analysis  

The table below presents an analysis of the effect on net
    interest income of volume and rate changes. In this

analysis, changes due to volume/rate variance have been
    allocated to volume.

207

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Available-for-sale 
    Securities Portfolio  

The table below presents the fair value of
     available-for-sale 
    securities.

208

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

The table below presents the fair value, amortized cost and
    weighted average yields of
     available-for-sale 

securities by contractual maturity. Yields are calculated on a
    weighted average basis.

209

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Deposits  

The table below presents a summary of the firm s
    interest-bearing deposits.

1.   
     
    Amounts are available for withdrawal upon short notice,
    generally within seven days.

Ratios 

The table below presents selected financial ratios.

1.  
 
         Based on net earnings applicable to common shareholders divided
    by average monthly common shareholders  equity.

2.  
 
         Based on net earnings divided by average monthly total
    shareholders  equity.

210

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Short-term 
    and Other Borrowed Funds  

The table below presents a summary of the firm s securities
    loaned and securities sold under agreements to repurchase and
     short-term 
    borrowings. These borrowings generally mature

within one year of the financial statement date and include
    borrowings that are redeemable at the option of the holder
    within one year of the financial statement date.

211

Table of Contents   

SUPPLEMENTAL
    FINANCIAL INFORMATION  

Cross-border
    Outstandings  

Cross-border outstandings are based upon the Federal Financial
    Institutions Examination Council s (FFIEC) regulatory
    guidelines for reporting cross-border risk. Claims include cash,
    receivables, securities purchased under agreements to resell,
    securities borrowed and cash financial instruments, but exclude
    derivative instruments and commitments. Securities purchased
    under agreements to resell and securities

borrowed are presented based on the domicile of the
    counterparty, without reduction for related securities
    collateral held.

The tables below present cross-border outstandings for each
    country in which cross-border outstandings exceed 0.75% of
    consolidated assets in accordance with the FFIEC guidelines.

212

Table of Contents   

Item 9.  Changes
    in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure  

There were no changes in or disagreements with accountants on
    accounting and financial disclosure during the last two fiscal
    years.

Item 9A.  Controls
    and Procedures  

As of the end of the period covered by this report, an
    evaluation was carried out by Goldman Sachs  management,
    with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief
    Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of our disclosure
    controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rule 13a-15(e) 
    under the Exchange Act). Based upon that evaluation, our Chief
    Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that
    these disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of
    the end of the period covered by this report. In addition, no
    change in our internal control over financial reporting (as
    defined in
     Rule 13a-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) occurred during the fourth quarter of
    our fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 that has
    materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially
    affect, our internal control over financial reporting.

Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial
    Reporting and the Report of Independent Registered Public
    Accounting Firm are set forth in Part II, Item 8 of
    this
     Form 10-K. 

Item 9B.  Other
    Information  

Not applicable.

PART III  

Item 10.  Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  

Information relating to our executive officers is included on
    pages 32 to 33 of this
     Form 10-K. 
    Information relating to our directors, including our audit
    committee and audit committee financial experts and the
    procedures by which shareholders can recommend director
    nominees, and our executive officers will be in our definitive
    Proxy Statement for our 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
    be held on May 6, 2011, which will be filed within
    120 days of the end of our fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2010 (2011 Proxy Statement) and is
    incorporated herein by reference. Information relating to our
    Code of Business Conduct and Ethics that applies to our senior
    financial officers, as defined in the Code, is included in
    Part I, Item 1 of this
     Form 10-K. 

Item 11.  Executive
    Compensation  

Information relating to our executive officer and director
    compensation and the compensation committee of our board of
    directors will be in the 2011 Proxy Statement and is
    incorporated herein by reference.

213

Table of Contents   

Item 12.  Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters  

Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial
    owners of our common stock and information relating to the
    security ownership of our management will be in the 2011 Proxy
    Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

The following table provides information as of
    December 31, 2010, the last day of fiscal 2010,

regarding securities to be issued on exercise of outstanding
    stock options or pursuant to outstanding restricted stock units
    and performance-based awards, and securities remaining available
    for issuance under our equity compensation plans that were in
    effect during fiscal 2010.

Number of 

Number of Securities 

Securities to be 

Remaining Available for 

Issued Upon 

Weighted-Average 

Future Issuance Under 

Exercise of 

Exercise Price of 

Equity Compensation 

Outstanding 

Outstanding 

Plans (Excluding 

Options, Warrants 

Options, Warrants 

Securities Reflected in 

Plan Category 

and Rights 

and Rights 

the Second Column) 

Equity compensation plans approved by security holders

The Goldman Sachs  Amended and 
    Restated Stock Incentive
    Plan  1 

116,097,803

2 

$

96.71

3 

139,152,653

4 

Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders

None

Total 

116,097,803  

2  

139,152,653  

4  

1.  
 
         The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan
    (SIP) was approved by the shareholders of Goldman Sachs at our
    2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and is a successor plan
    to The Goldman Sachs 1999 Stock Incentive Plan (1999 Plan),
    which was approved by our shareholders immediately prior to our
    initial public offering in May 1999 and under which no
    additional awards have been granted since approval of the SIP.

2.  
 
         Includes: (i) 55,247,865 shares of common stock that
    may be issued upon exercise of outstanding options;
    (ii) 60,780,875 shares that may be issued pursuant to
    outstanding restricted stock units; and
    (iii) 69,063 shares that may be issued pursuant to
    outstanding performance-based units granted under the SIP. These
    awards are subject to vesting and other conditions to the extent
    set forth in the respective award agreements, and the underlying
    shares will be delivered net of any required tax withholding.

3.  
 
         This weighted-average exercise price relates only to the options
    described in footnote 2. Shares underlying restricted stock
    units and performance-based units are deliverable without the
    payment of any consideration, and therefore these awards have
    not been taken into account in calculating the weighted-average
    exercise price.

4.  
 
         Represents shares remaining to be issued under the SIP,
    excluding shares reflected in the second column. The total
    number of shares of common stock that may be delivered pursuant
    to awards granted under the SIP through the end of our 2008
    fiscal year could not exceed 250 million shares. The total
    number of shares of common stock that may be delivered pursuant
    to awards granted under the SIP in our 2009 fiscal year and each
    fiscal year thereafter cannot exceed 5% of the issued and
    outstanding shares of common stock, determined as of the last
    day of the immediately preceding fiscal year, increased by the
    number of shares available for awards in previous years but not
    covered by awards granted in such years. There are no shares
    remaining to be issued under the 1999 Plan other than those
    reflected in the second column.

Item 13.  Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence  

Information regarding certain relationships and related
    transactions and director independence will be in the 2011 Proxy
    Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 14.  Principal
    Accountant Fees and Services  

Information regarding principal accountant fees and services
    will be in the 2011 Proxy Statement and is incorporated herein
    by reference.

214

Table of Contents   

PART IV  

Item 15.    

Exhibits
    and Financial Statement Schedules  

(a) Documents filed as part of this Report: 

1. Consolidated Financial Statements 

The consolidated financial statements required to be filed in
    this
     Form 10-K 
    are included in Part II, Item 8 hereof.

2. Exhibits 

2

.1

Plan of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to the
    corresponding exhibit to the Registrant s registration
    statement on Form
     S-1  (No.
    333-74449)).

3

.1

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of The Goldman
    Sachs Group, Inc., amended as of May 7, 2010
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the
    Registrant s Current Report on Form
     8-K,  filed
    May 11, 2010).

3

.2

Amended and Restated By-Laws of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.,
    amended as of May 7, 2010 (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 3.2 to the Registrant s Current Report on
    Form  8-K, 
    filed May 11, 2010).

4

.1

Indenture, dated as of May 19, 1999, between The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York, as trustee
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 6 to the
    Registrant s registration statement on
     Form 8-A, 
    filed June 29, 1999).

4

.2

Subordinated Debt Indenture, dated as of
    February 20, 2004, between The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. and The Bank of New York, as trustee (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant s Annual
    Report on Form
     10-K  for the
    fiscal year ended November 28, 2003).

4

.3

Warrant Indenture, dated as of February 14, 2006,
    between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York,
    as trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.34 to
    the Registrant s
     Post-Effective 
    Amendment No. 3 to Form
     S-3,  filed
    on March 1, 2006).

4

.4

Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of December 4, 2007,
    among GS Finance Corp., as issuer, The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc., as guarantor, and The Bank of New York, as Trustee
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.69 to the
    Registrant s Post-Effective Amendment No. 10 to Form
     S-3,  filed
    on December 4, 2007).

Certain instruments defining the rights of holders of
    long-term debt securities of the Registrant and its subsidiaries
    are omitted pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation
     S-K.  The
    Registrant hereby undertakes to furnish to the SEC, upon
    request, copies of any such instruments. 

4

.5

Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of July 16, 2008,
    between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and The Bank of New York
    Mellon, as trustee (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 4.82 to the Registrant s
     Post-Effective 
    Amendment No. 11 to Form
     S-3 
     (No. 333-130074), 
    filed July 17, 2008).

4

.6

Senior Debt Indenture, dated as of October 10, 2008,
    among GS Finance Corp., as issuer, The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc., as guarantor, and The Bank of New York Mellon, as trustee
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.70 to the
    Registrant s registration statement on Form
     S-3  (No.
     333-154173), 
    filed October 10, 2008).

10

.1

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on Form
     10-K  for the
    fiscal year ended
    November 28, 2008).    

10

.2

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Restricted Partner
    Compensation Plan (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended
    February 24, 2006).    

10

.3

Form of Employment Agreement for Participating Managing
    Directors (applicable to executive officers) (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.19 to the Registrant s
    registration statement on Form
     S-1 
     (No. 333-75213)).     

10

.4

Form of Agreement Relating to Noncompetition and Other Covenants
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.20 to the
    Registrant s registration statement on Form
     S-1 
     (No. 333-75213)).     

10

.5

Tax Indemnification Agreement, dated as of
    May 7, 1999, by and among The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. and various parties (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.25 to the Registrant s registration
    statement on Form
     S-1 
     (No. 333-75213)). 

215

Table of Contents   

216

Table of Contents   

10

.25

Amendments to 2005 and 2006 Year-End RSU and Option Award
    Agreements (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.44 to
    the Registrant s Annual Report on Form
     10-K  for the
    fiscal year ended
    November 30, 2007).    

10

.26

Form of Non-Employee Director Option Award Agreement
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on Form
     10-K  for the
    fiscal year ended
    December 31, 2009).    

10

.27

Form of
     Non-Employee 
    Director RSU Award
    Agreement.    

10

.28

Description of Independent Director
    Compensation.    

10

.29

Ground Lease, dated August 23, 2005, between Battery Park
    City Authority
     d/b/a/ 
    Hugh L. Carey Battery Park City Authority, as Landlord, and
    Goldman Sachs Headquarters LLC, as Tenant (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Current
    Report on Form
     8-K,  filed
    August 26, 2005).

10

.30

General Guarantee Agreement, dated January 30, 2006,
    made by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. relating to certain
    obligations of Goldman, Sachs   Co. (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.45 to the Registrant s Annual
    Report on Form
     10-K  for the
    fiscal year ended November 25, 2005).

10

.31

Goldman, Sachs   Co. Executive Life Insurance Policy and
    Certificate with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company for
    Participating Managing Directors (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended
    August 25, 2006).    

10

.32

Form of Goldman, Sachs   Co. Executive Life Insurance
    Policy with Pacific Life   Annuity Company for
    Participating Managing Directors, including policy
    specifications and form of restriction on Policy Owner s
    Rights (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the
    Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended
    August 25, 2006).    

10

.33

Form of Second Amendment, dated November 25, 2006, to
    Agreement Relating to Noncompetition and Other Covenants, dated
    May 7, 1999, as amended effective
    November 27, 2004 (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.51 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
    Form  10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended
    November 24, 2006).    

10

.34

Description of PMD Retiree Medical Program (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Registrant s
    Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended
    February 29, 2008).    

10

.35

Letter, dated June 28, 2008, from The Goldman Sachs
    Group, Inc. to Mr. Lakshmi N. Mittal (incorporated by
    reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Registrant s Current
    Report on Form
     8-K,  filed
    June 30, 2008).    

10

.36

Securities Purchase Agreement, dated
    September 29, 2008, between The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc. and Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant s Quarterly Report on
     Form 10-Q 
    for the period ended August 29, 2008).

10

.37

General Guarantee Agreement, dated December 1, 2008,
    made by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. relating to certain
    obligations of Goldman Sachs Bank USA (incorporated by reference
    to Exhibit 4.80 to the Registrant s Post-Effective
    Amendment No. 2 to Form
     S-3,  filed
    March 19, 2009).

10

.38

Form of Letter Agreement between The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
    and each of Lloyd C. Blankfein, Gary D. Cohn, Jon
    Winkelried and David A. Viniar (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit O to Amendment No. 70 to Schedule 13D,
    filed October 1, 2008, relating to the
    Registrant s common stock
     (No. 005-56295)). 

10

.39

General Guarantee Agreement, dated November 24, 2008, made
    by The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. relating to the obligations of
    Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC (incorporated by reference to
    Exhibit 10.59 to the Registrant s Annual Report on
    Form  10-K 
    for the fiscal year ended November 28, 2008).

10

.40

Guarantee Agreement, dated November 28, 2008 and
    amended effective as of January 1, 2010, between The
    Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and Goldman Sachs Bank USA
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.51 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on Form
     10-K  for the
    fiscal year ended December 31, 2009).

10

.41

Collateral Agreement, dated November 28, 2008, between
    The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc., Goldman Sachs Bank USA and each
    other party that becomes a pledgor pursuant thereto
    (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.61 to the
    Registrant s Annual Report on Form
     10-K  for the
    fiscal year ended November 28, 2008).

217

Table of Contents   

This exhibit is a management contract or a compensatory plan or
    arrangement.

* 

This information is furnished and not filed for purposes of
    Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 1933 and
    Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

218

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
    thereunto duly authorized.

The Goldman Sachs Group,
    Inc.

By:  

/s/  DAVID
    A. VINIAR

Name: David A. Viniar

Title:  

Chief Financial Officer

Date: February 28, 2011

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons
    on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the
    dates indicated.

II-1

Table of Contents   

Signature 

Capacity 

Date 

/s/  LAKSHMI
    N. MITTAL
 
      Lakshmi
    N. Mittal

Director

February 28, 2011

/s/  JAMES
    J. SCHIRO
 
      James
    J. Schiro

Director

February 28, 2011

/s/  H.
    LEE SCOTT, JR. 
 
      H.
    Lee Scott, Jr. 

Director

February 28, 2011

/s/  DAVID
    A. VINIAR
 
      David
    A. Viniar

Chief Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial Officer)

February 28, 2011

/s/  SARAH
    E. SMITH
 
      Sarah
    E. Smith

Principal Accounting Officer

February 28, 2011

II-2

<EX-10.27>
 2
 y88213exv10w27.htm
 EX-10.27: FORM OF NON-EMPLOYEE DIRECTOR RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

exv10w27 

Exhibit 10.27

THE GOLDMAN SACHS 
AMENDED AND RESTATED STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
OUTSIDE DIRECTOR      RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of an Award of RSUs granted to you
under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ) as of the Date of
Grant.

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement which are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan.   In light
of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent
that you are a United States taxpayer, certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan
shall apply only as provided in Paragraph 11  .

2.  Award . The number of RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. Each RSU constitutes an unfunded and unsecured promise of GS Inc. to
deliver (or cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement, a share of Common Stock (a  Share ) (or cash or other property equal to the Fair Market
Value thereof) on the Delivery Date as provided herein. Until such delivery, you have only the
rights of a general unsecured creditor and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.  This Award is
subject to all terms and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement .

3.  Delivery .

(a)  In General . Except as provided below in this Paragraph 3 and subject to
Paragraphs 6, 7 and 11, the Delivery Date shall be on the first Business Day in the third quarter
of the Firm s fiscal year that occurs within a Window Period in the year following the year in
which you cease to be a director of the GS Inc. Board. The Firm may deliver cash or other property
in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable on the Delivery Date. Unless
otherwise determined by the Committee, or as otherwise provided in this Award Agreement, delivery
of Shares shall be effected by book-entry credit to the Custody Account or to a brokerage account,
as approved or required by the Firm. No delivery of Shares shall be made unless you have timely
established the Custody Account or a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm. You
shall be the beneficial owner of any Shares properly credited to the Custody Account or delivered
to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm. You shall have no right to any
dividend or distribution with respect to such Shares if the record date for such dividend or
distribution is prior to the date the Custody Account or brokerage account, as approved or required
by the Firm, is properly credited with such Shares.

(b)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 11), if you die prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares (or cash or other property in lieu
of all or any portion thereof) corresponding to your Outstanding RSUs shall be delivered to the
representative of your estate as soon as practicable after the date of death and after such
documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the Committee. The

Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to specifically bequeath
some or all of your Outstanding RSUs under your will to an organization described in Sections
501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar charitable organization as may be approved
by the Committee).

4.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Prior to the delivery of Shares (or cash or other
property in lieu thereof) pursuant to this Award Agreement, at or after the time of distribution of
any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of the Common Stock, you shall be entitled to
receive an amount in cash or other property equal to such regular cash dividend payment as would
have been made in respect of the Shares not yet delivered, as if the Shares had been actually
delivered.

5.  Non-transferability . Except as may otherwise be provided in this Paragraph or as
otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan
shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of
this Paragraph 5 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt procedures
pursuant to which you may transfer some or all of your RSUs through a gift for no consideration to
any child, stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law,
including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant
or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any
other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

6.  Conflicted Employment . Notwithstanding anything in this Award Agreement to the
contrary, if you accept employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S.
government, any supranational or international organization, any self-regulatory organization, or
any agency or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any other employer
determined by the Committee, and as a result of such employment, your continued holding of your
Outstanding RSUs would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted
Employment ), then you shall receive, at the sole discretion of the Firm, either a lump sum cash
payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your then Outstanding RSUs, in each case
as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your
Conflicted Employment.

7.  Withholding, Consents and Legends .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan, provided that the Committee may determine not to
apply the minimum withholding rate specified in Section 3.2.2 of the Plan.

(b) Your rights in respect of the RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full satisfaction
of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan) that the
Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable, and, by accepting this Award, you agree to
the matters described in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan.

-2- 

(c) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable. GS Inc. may
advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

8.  Successors and Assigns of GS Inc.  The terms and conditions of this Award Agreement
shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of GS Inc. and its successors and assigns.

9.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement in any respect in accordance with Section 1.3 of the
Plan, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect in accordance with Section 3.1 of the Plan.
Notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(h) and 3.1 of the Plan, no such
amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award Agreement
without your consent, except that the Committee reserves the right to accelerate the delivery of
the Shares and in its discretion provide that such Shares may not be transferable until the
Delivery Date. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing.

10.  Governing Law .  THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS. 

11.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 11 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 11 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 11 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable conditions
or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your RSUs required by this Agreement
(including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 7(a) and (b), and the consents and
other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied, and shall occur by December 31 of
the calendar year in which the Delivery Date occurs unless, in order to permit such conditions or
restrictions to be satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Treasury

-3- 

Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance
with Section 409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date as may be permitted under Section
409A, including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of
the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(a) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to the
extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property that
the Firm may deliver in respect of your RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring delivery or
payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on which such
delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with respect to
the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a later date for
this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted under Section
409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent election
provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(b), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 4 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding RSUs shall be paid to you
within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular cash
dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after the
Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding RSUs.

(f) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 6 shall be the earlier of (i)
the Delivery Date or (ii) within the calendar year in which the Committee receives satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such delivery or payment shall
be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as reasonably determined by the
Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you under Section 409A.

(g) Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred compensation.

(h) Delivery of Shares in respect of this Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

12.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-4- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and
delivered as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

Accepted and Agreed: 

By:

Print Name: 

-5- 

</EX-10.27>

<EX-10.28>
 3
 y88213exv10w28.htm
 EX-10.28: DESCRIPTION OF INDEPENDENT DIRECTOR COMPENSATION

exv10w28 

Exhibit 10.28

Description of Independent Director Compensation 

For 2010, the compensation for the independent directors of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(Group Inc.), which was awarded on January 26, 2011, consisted of the following:

a $75,000 annual retainer in the form of 465 vested restricted stock units (RSUs) to
each independent director, other than H. Lee Scott, Jr., who became a director in May
2010 and received a prorated retainer of $50,000 in the form of 310 vested RSUs; 

a $25,000 committee chair fee in the form of 155 vested RSUs to each of John H.
Bryan, Stephen Friedman and James A. Johnson, and a prorated committee chair fee of
$8,333 in the form of 52 vested RSUs to James J. Schiro, who became Chair of the Audit
Committee in September 2010; and 

an annual grant of 2,500 vested RSUs to each independent director, other than Mr.
Scott, who became a director in May 2010 and received a prorated annual grant of 1,667
vested RSUs. 

In addition, each of Rajat K. Gupta and Ruth J. Simmons, who retired as directors in May 2010,
received a prorated retainer of $31,250 and a prorated annual grant of $168,085. Because they were
no longer on the Group Inc. board of directors (the Board), the Board determined to pay their
prorated compensation in cash rather than equity.

RSUs granted to independent directors for 2010 services are fully vested and provide for
delivery of the underlying shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (Common Stock), of
Group Inc. on the first eligible trading day in the third quarter of the year following the year of
the director s retirement from the Board.

The Board, upon the recommendation of Group Inc. s Corporate Governance and Nominating
Committee, has a stock ownership policy that requires each independent director to beneficially own
at least 5,000 shares of Common Stock or fully vested RSUs within two years of becoming a director.
All independent directors of Group Inc. are in compliance with this policy.

Independent directors of Group Inc. are permitted to participate in Group Inc. s employee
matching gift program on the same terms as non-participating managing director employees generally.
Under the program for 2010, Group Inc. matched gifts of up to $20,000 in the aggregate per
participating individual.

Independent directors receive no compensation other than directors  fees.

</EX-10.28>

<EX-10.42>
 4
 y88213exv10w42.htm
 EX-10.42: FORM OF ONE-TIME RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

exv10w42 

Exhibit 10.42

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
_______ ONE-TIME RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of this special _______ One-Time award
(this  Award ) of restricted stock units ( One-Time RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs
Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15  .

2.  Award . The number of One-Time RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be
delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common
Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc.
  This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it to the
address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by
the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set
forth in Paragraph 12 .  By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in   Paragraph 3(   b)    if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of One-Time
RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares). When a One-Time RSU becomes Vested, it means only that your continued active
Employment is not required in order to receive delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding
One-Time RSUs that are or become Vested. However, all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested One-Time RSUs, and failure to meet such terms and
conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result of which no Shares underlying
such Vested One-Time RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Dates with respect to this Award shall be the dates specified (next to the
number or percentage of One-Time RSUs) as such on your Award Statement. In accordance with
Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-3(d), the Firm may accelerate delivery to a date that
is up to 30 days before the Delivery Date specified on the Award Statement; provided, however, that
in no event shall you be permitted to designate, directly or indirectly, the taxable year of the
delivery.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15 and 16,
in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than 30
Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares
is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then Outstanding
One-Time RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred (which number
of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry credit to
your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of the
Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all or
any portion of your One-Time RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other awards under
the Plan or other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of Shares
shall include such deliveries of cash, other securities, other awards under the Plan or other
property.

(iv) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares may be made initially into an
escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the Firm and may be held in
that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such documentation as it may have
requested or until the Committee has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on
delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your
One-Time RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other permitted
beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such terms and
conditions (which may include, without limitation, your (or your estate or beneficiary) executing
any documents related to, and your (or your estate or beneficiary) paying for any costs associated
with, such account) as the Firm may deem necessary or appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement
shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the
exclusive authority to vote such Shares while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares
held in escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its sole
discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying your then Outstanding
One-Time RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your estate as soon as practicable after
the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to
the Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to
specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding One-Time RSUs under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of One-Time RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your One-Time RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall terminate, such
One-Time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof.

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Outstanding One-Time RSUs (whether or not Vested) immediately
shall terminate, such One-Time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered
in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

-2- 

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm or this Award, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice
period requirement applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders 
agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid;  or 

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding One-Time RSUs .   or 

(viii) this Award is intended to replace or substitute for any award or compensation forgone
with an entity to which you previously provided services, and such entity nevertheless delivers to
you such award or compensation (including, but not limited to cash, equity or other property
(whether vested or unvested)), as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. 

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (i) any Firm employee or
consultant (A) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (B) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (ii) any Managing Director of the Firm. For the avoidance
of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any amount you owe to the Firm
shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an agreement referred to in
Paragraph 4(b)(v) regardless of whether such obligation arises under a written agreement, and/or
(ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(ii).

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision in
Paragraph 4(b), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee determines that, during the
Firm s      fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or marketing of any product or
service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the purchase or sale of any
security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the risk to the Firm
or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly analyzed such
risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result of
such action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be expected
to be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial system, your rights in respect of your One-Time RSUs awarded as part of this Award
(whether or not Vested) immediately shall terminate, such One-Time RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof (and any Shares, Dividend
Equivalents, or other amounts paid or delivered to you in

-3- 

respect of this Award shall be subject to
repayment in accordance with, or in a manner similar to the provisions described in, Paragraph 5).

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which require Grantees to
repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all terms and
conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall apply to
this Award.

6.  Extended Absence , Retirement and Downsizing  .  

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence  or Retirement (as defined below) , the condition set
forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any One-Time RSUs that were Outstanding but
that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of
which such One-Time RSUs shall become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or
otherwise,  Retirement  means termination of your Employment (other than for Cause) on or after the
Date of Grant at a time when (i) (A) the sum of your age plus years of service with the Firm (as
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) equals or exceeds 60 and (B) you have completed
at least 10 years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion)
or, if earlier, (ii) (A) you have attained age 50 and (B) you have completed at least five years of
service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion). 

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b) and 4(c), your rights in respect of
your Outstanding One-Time RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) immediately
shall terminate, such Outstanding One-Time RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such
One-Time RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit
participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity
(including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant,
agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise
determined by the Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b) will not apply if your
termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence  or Retirement  is characterized by the
Firm as  involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a
general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as
may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you,
including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination
for good reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of
Employment by  mutual agreement. 

(c)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your One-Time RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such One-Time RSUs shall
become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply. Whether
or not your Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined by the
Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any
termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good
reason, will be solely by reason of a  downsizing.  

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraph 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months
thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for
Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding One-Time RSUs, whether or not Vested,
shall be delivered.

-4- 

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each One-Time RSU shall include a Dividend Equivalent
Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding One-Time RSUs, at or after the time
of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date
for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an amount (less
applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect
of the Share underlying such Outstanding One-Time RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent
Right shall be made only with respect to One-Time RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record
date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the
Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
     fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the One-Time RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your One-Time RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your One-Time
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the
Firm). In addition, you understand and agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs
and other fees or expenses associated with your One-Time RSU Award, including, without limitation,
such brokerage costs or other fees or expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to
you hereunder.

-5- 

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b) and 4(c), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization, or any agency or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding One-Time RSUs would result in
an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding One-Time RSUs;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be
waived with respect to any One-Time RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a result
of which such One-Time RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the case of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and
9(g)(ii), at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash payment in
respect of, or delivery of the Shares underlying, your then Outstanding Vested One-Time RSUs, in
each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory documentation
relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment while you
continue to hold Outstanding Vested One-Time RSUs, you may be required to certify, from time to
time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. You
understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of any changes to your
address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are responsible for
obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive certification
materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by the deadline
specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your Outstanding
One-Time RSUs, as applicable, in accordance with Paragraphs 4(b)(iv).

10.  Right of Offset . Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its rights to amend the Award Agreement
and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the Plan. Any amendment of this
Award Agreement shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET

-6- 

FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 13 or
as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in
Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in
violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The
Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of One-Time RSUs may
transfer some or all of their One-Time RSUs through a gift for no consideration to any child,
stepchild, grandchild, parent, stepparent, grandparent, spouse, sibling, niece, nephew,
mother-in-law, father-in-law, son-in-law, daughter-in-law, brother-in-law or sister-in-law,
including adoptive relationships, any person sharing the recipient s household (other than a tenant
or employee), a trust in which these persons have more than 50% of the beneficial interest, and any
other entity in which these persons (or the recipient) own more than 50% of the voting interests.

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your One-Time RSUs required by
this Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b) 
and (c) (execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) 
and 9 and the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied. To the
extent that any portion of this Award is intended to satisfy the requirements for short-term
deferral treatment under Section 409A, delivery for such portion shall occur by the March 15
coinciding with the last day of the applicable  short-term deferral  period described in Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4) in order for the delivery of Shares to be within the short-term deferral
exception unless, in order to permit all applicable conditions or restrictions on delivery to be
satisfied, the Committee elects, pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be
permitted in accordance with Section 409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the
same calendar year or to such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without
limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code
Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

-7- 

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your One-Time RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with
respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted
under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of
Employment occurs; provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the
Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier
of the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under
Section 409A) the date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter
date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes
of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination
of Employment from the Firm (as defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding One-Time RSUs shall be paid
to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after
the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding One-Time RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee
receives satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such
delivery or payment shall be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as
reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you
under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

(j) The Grantee understands and agrees that the Grantee is solely responsible for the payment
of any taxes and penalties due pursuant to Section 409A.

16.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 457A . To the extent the
Committee or the Plan s committee that has been delegated certain authority by the Committee (the
 SIP Committee ) determines that (i) Section 457A of the Code or any guidance promulgated
thereunder ( Section 457A ) requires that, in order to qualify for the short-term deferral
exception from treatment as  deferred compensation  under Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code, the
documents governing an Award must specify that

-8- 

such Award will be delivered within the period set forth in Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code and (ii) all or any portion of this Award is or becomes
subject to Section 457A, this Award Agreement will be deemed to be amended as of the Date of Grant
(as the Committee or the SIP Committee determines necessary or appropriate after consultation with
counsel) to provide that delivery of One-Time RSUs will occur no later than 12 months after the end
of the taxable year in which the right to delivery is first no longer subject to a substantial risk
of forfeiture (as defined under Section 457A); provided, however, that no action or modification
will be permitted to the extent that such action or modification would cause such Award to fail to
satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of Section 409A or
otherwise would result in an additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect of such Award.

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of
the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

-9- 

</EX-10.42>

<EX-10.45>
 5
 y88213exv10w45.htm
 EX-10.45: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS

exv10w45 

Exhibit 10.45

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 

  Signature Card For      Year-End Awards and the BNY Mellon Custody Account   
 and Consent to Receive Electronic Delivery  

IMPORTANT: PLEASE REVIEW, EXECUTE AND RETURN THIS FORM TO: EQUITY COMPENSATION 
(DIVISION OF HCM), 30 HUDSON STREET, 34TH FLOOR, JERSEY CITY, NJ 07302. 

YOU MUST PROPERLY EXECUTE THIS FORM TO ACKNOWLEDGE ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF 
YOUR AWARD(S) AND RELATED MATTERS. 

1. I have received and agree to be bound by The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  SIP ) and the Award Agreement(s) applicable to me in connection with the
     Year-End Award(s) (the   Award(s) )  that I have been granted by the Firm (as defined in the
SIP). I confirm that I have accepted the Award(s) subject to the terms and conditions contained in
the SIP and the Award Agreement(s), including but not limited to, the requirement that disputes
relating to the Award(s) and the Award  Agreement(s)  be decided through arbitration in New York City
and be governed by New York law.

As a condition of this grant, I understand that the Award(s) (as well as any other award that the
Firm may grant to me under the SIP) is/are subject to other governing law provisions (as outlined
in this signature card (the  Signature Card ), in the current or otherwise then current Award
Summary (as defined below) or otherwise as may be required under applicable law) and, as a
condition to receiving such awards, I agree to be bound thereby. I also understand that the Firm
may grant to me other awards under the SIP that also may contain (among other terms and conditions)
arbitration and other governing law provisions and, as a condition to receiving such awards, I
agree to be bound thereby. As a condition of this grant, I agree to provide upon request an
appropriate certification regarding my U.S. tax status on
 Form W-8BEN,  Form W-9, or other
appropriate form, and I understand that failure to supply a required form may result in the
imposition of backup withholding on certain payments I receive pursuant to this grant.

I understand and acknowledge that I am agreeing to arbitrate all claims, in accordance with the
arbitration procedure set forth in the Award  Agreement(s) . The Award  Agreement(s)  does not include
an agreement to arbitrate claims on a collective or class basis. It is explicitly agreed that, to
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no arbitrator shall have the authority to consider
class or collective claims, to order consolidation or to join different claimants or grant relief
other than on an individual basis to the individual claimant involved.

Further, as a condition of this grant, if I am a person who has worked in the  United
Kingdom  at any time during the earnings period relating to any award under the SIP, as
determined by the Firm, when requested and as directed by the Firm, I will agree to a Joint
Election under s431 ITEPA 2003 of the laws of the United Kingdom for full or partial disapplication
of Chapter 2 Income Tax (Earnings and Pension) Act 2003 under the laws of the United Kingdom and
will sign and return such election in respect of all future deliveries of shares underlying the
Award(s) and any previous grants made to me under the SIP and understand that the Firm intends to
meet its delivery obligations in shares with respect to my Award(s), except as may be prohibited by
law or described in the accompanying Award Agreement(s) or supplementary materials.

If I have worked in  Switzerland  at any time during the earnings period relating to the
Award(s) granted to me as determined by the Firm, (i) I acknowledge that my Award(s) are subject to
tax in accordance with the rulings and method of calculation of taxable values to be agreed by the
Firm with the Federal and/or Zurich/Geneva cantonal/communal tax authorities or as otherwise
directed by the Firm, and (ii) I hereby agree to be bound by any rulings agreed by the Firm in
respect of any Award(s), which is expected to result in taxation at the time of delivery of shares
(or cash or other property in lieu thereof), and (iii) I undertake to declare and make a full and
accurate income tax declaration in respect of my Award(s) in accordance with the above ruling or as
directed by the Firm.

I understand and acknowledge that any transfer provisions (including, where applicable, escrow and
other similar provisions, but specifically excluding any transfer restrictions imposed on any
Award(s) in the Award Agreement(s) or the SIP) in the SIP or related documents will not apply to me
(i) to the extent that the applicability of those provisions would affect the availability of
relevant exemptions or tax favorable treatment, or (ii) otherwise in circumstances determined by
the Firm in its sole discretion.

2. I have read and understand the Firm s  Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based
Awards  policy (the  Notice Policy ) available through the HR Workways    link on GSWeb or as
otherwise provided to me, pursuant to which I am required to provide certain specified advance
notice of my intent to leave employment with the Firm. I understand that in executing this form, I
will be agreeing to provide my employing entity with advance written notice of my intention to
leave employment with the Firm as follows:

In the Americas: 60 days in advance of my termination date 

In Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India: 90 days in advance of my termination date 

In Japan and Asia Ex-Japan (including Australia and excluding India): 90 days in advance
of my termination date if I am a Vice President or 

an Executive Director; 60 days in advance of my termination date in all other cases 

and that, subject to applicable law, the provisions of the Notice Policy constitute a permanent
change to my terms and conditions of employment. I agree to this change in consideration of my
continued employment with the Firm and my acceptance of the Award(s), and I agree to be bound by
the Notice Policy as in effect from time-to-time.

I understand that if under local law or my contract of employment I have a notice requirement that
is longer than those specified above, the longer notice period will apply. Also, I understand that
if my terms and conditions of employment provide for a probation period after I begin employment
with the Firm (e.g., in Hong Kong, India, Paris or Frankfurt), this Notice Policy will apply only
if notice of termination of employment is given (whether by me or by the Firm) after the probation
period has ended.

I also understand that the terms and conditions of my employment shall be permanently changed so
that, in the event that I resign from the Firm, the Firm may:

Unilaterally waive or reduce the notice period otherwise applicable to my employment, or 

Take such other action as shall have that effect. 

I acknowledge that the Firm retains its right to bring forward the end of the notice period to such
earlier date, and that I will not be entitled to any salary, wages, or benefits after such earlier
date. In addition, I understand that I will not receive pay in lieu for any period of notice that
has been waived or reduced.

I understand that unless the notice period is waived by agreement or unilaterally as set out above,
or I have exercised a statutory right to make a payment in lieu of my notice period, I will be paid
my base salary (and/or draw for commissioned employees) and will continue to receive all mandatory
benefits during the notice period.

I understand that during my notice period I may be required to remain away from the Firm s offices,
and/or be removed from any assigned duties or assigned to other suitable duties.

I understand that if I fail to give the full amount of notice as set out above, or to comply in any
respect with the Notice Policy, I will have failed to meet an obligation I have under an agreement
with the Firm, as a result of which the Firm may have certain rights and I may be subject to
certain legal and equitable rights and remedies, including, without limitation, the forfeiture of
the Award(s) and any other awards granted to me (whether before or after the Award(s)) under the
SIP. The forfeiture of such Award(s) will also apply where I fail to give the full amount of notice
by exercising any right I may have under applicable legislation to make a payment in lieu of such
notice. The Firm may hold me personally liable for any damages that it suffers as a result of the
breach. I also understand that, if I fail to comply with the Notice Policy, the Firm may be
entitled to an injunction from a court restraining me from violating it.

This agreement concerning my notice period is being made for and on behalf of my Goldman Sachs
employing entity, and implementation of the Notice Policy does not create an employment
relationship between me and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ( GS Inc. ).

3. I have read and understand the Firm s hedging and pledging policies (including, without
limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS Shares, Equity Awards
and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and agree to be bound by them (with respect to
the Award(s) and any prior awards under the SIP), both during and following my employment with the
Firm.

4. If a custody account is required, I request that The Bank of New York Mellon ( BNY Mellon )
(successor in interest to Mellon Bank, N.A.) open a custody account for me as described in the
enclosed Custody Agreement among BNY Mellon (as successor in interest to Mellon Bank N.A.), GS
Inc., and myself. I have received and agree to be bound by the Custody Agreement (or any other such
custody agreement previously entered into by me or on my behalf), including the applicable
restrictions on transfers, pledges and withdrawals of shares of the common stock of GS Inc.
( Shares ), the provisions permitting the Firm to monitor my custody account, and the limitations
on the liability of BNY Mellon and the Firm. I also agree to open an account with any other
custodian or broker selected by the Firm, if the Firm, in its sole discretion, requires me to open
an account with such custodian or broker as a condition to delivery of Shares (or cash or other
property) underlying the Award(s).

5. If the Firm advanced or loaned me funds to pay certain taxes (including income taxes and Social
Security, or similar contributions) in connection with the Award(s) (or does so in the future), and
if I have not signed a separate loan agreement governing repayment, I authorize the Firm to
withhold from my compensation any amounts required to reimburse it for any such advance or loan to
the extent permitted by applicable law.

I understand and agree that, if I leave the Firm, I am required immediately to repay any
outstanding amount. I further understand and agree that the Firm has the right to offset, to the
extent permitted by the Award Agreement and applicable law (including Section 409A of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which limits the Firm s ability to offset in the case of
United States taxpayers under certain circumstances), any outstanding amounts that I then owe the
Firm against its delivery obligations under the Award(s) or against any other amounts the Firm then
owes me. I understand that the delivery of Shares pursuant to the Award(s) is conditioned on my
satisfaction of any applicable taxes or social security contributions (collectively referred to as
 tax  or  taxes  for purposes of the SIP and all related documents) in accordance with the SIP. To
the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require me to provide
amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations
imposed on me or the Firm in connection with the grant, vesting or delivery of the Award(s) by
requiring me to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or
otherwise), (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to me
pursuant to the Award(s) or (iii) as otherwise permitted in the Award Agreement(s). However, in no
event shall any such choice or the choice specified in paragraph 6, below, determine, or give me
any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or payment of tax obligations.

6. If I am an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the
Firm s      fiscal year), I acknowledge and agree that the Firm may, in its sole discretion,
require (to the extent permitted by applicable law) that I provide for a reserve in an amount the
Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or potential
tax consequences related to my separate employment contracts by requiring me to choose between
remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deductions or otherwise) or (ii) in the form
of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to me pursuant to the Award(s) (or
any other of my awards outstanding under the SIP).

7. In connection with any Award Agreement or other interest I may receive in the SIP or any Shares
that I may receive in connection with the Award(s) or any award I have previously received or may
receive, or in connection with any amendment or variation thereof or any documents listed in
paragraph 8, I hereby consent to (a) the acceptance by me of the Award(s) electronically, (b) the
giving of instructions in electronic form whether by me or the Firm, and (c) the receipt in
electronic form at my email address maintained at Goldman Sachs or via Goldman Sachs  intranet site
(or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, at such other email address as I may specify, or via
such other electronic means as the Firm and I may agree) all notices and information that the Firm
is required by law to send to me in connection therewith including, without limitation, any
document (or part thereof) constituting part of a prospectus covering securities that have been
registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the information contained in any such document
and any information required to be delivered to me under Rule 428 of the U.S. Securities Act of
1933, including, for example, the annual report to security holders or the annual report on Form
10-K of GS Inc. for its latest fiscal year, and that all prior elections that I may have made
relating to the delivery of any such document in physical form are hereby revoked and superseded. I
agree to check Goldman Sachs  intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, such other
electronic site as the Firm and I may agree) periodically as I deem appropriate for any new notices
or information concerning the SIP. I understand that I am not required to consent to the receipt of
such documents in electronic form in order to receive the Award(s) and that I may decline to
receive such documents in electronic form by contacting Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30
Hudson Street, 34th Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, which will provide me
with hard copies of such documents upon request. I also understand that this consent is voluntary
and may be revoked at any time on three business days  written notice.

8. I hereby acknowledge that I have received in electronic form in accordance with my consent in
paragraph 7 the following documents:

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Summary of The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Custody Agreement with BNY Mellon; 

The 2009 Annual Report for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.; 

The annual report on Form 10-K for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2009; 

The Award Agreement(s); and 

Summaries of the Award(s) ( Award Summary ). 

9. I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any notifications,
filings or remittances of funds that may be required in connection with the SIP or otherwise on my
behalf. Further, if I am an employee who is resident in South Africa at a relevant time, by
accepting my Award(s), I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any
required notification on my behalf to the Reserve Bank of South Africa (or its authorized

dealer) in relation to my participation in the SIP and to any acquisition of Shares for no consideration
under the SIP or other similar filing that may otherwise be required in South Africa. I acknowledge
that any such authorization is effective from the date of acceptance of my Award(s) until such time
as I expressly revoke the authorization by written notice to any appropriate representative of the
Firm. I understand that this authorization does not create any obligation on the Firm to deal with
any such notifications, filings or remittances of funds that I may be required to make in
connection with the SIP and I accept full responsibility in this regard.

10. The granting of the Award(s), the delivery of the underlying Shares (or cash or other property)
and any subsequent dividends or dividend equivalent payments, and the receipt of any proceeds in
connection with the Award(s) may result in legal or regulatory requirements in some jurisdictions.
I understand and agree that it is my responsibility to ensure that I comply with any legal or
regulatory requirements in respect of the Award(s).

11. I confirm that I have filed all tax returns that I am required to file and paid all taxes I am
required to pay with respect to awards previously granted to me by the Firm, and I agree, with
respect to both the Award(s) as well as awards previously granted to me by the Firm, to file all
tax returns I am required to file and to pay all taxes I am required to pay.

Consent to Data Collection, Processing and Transfers: 

I understand and agree that in connection with the SIP and any other Firm benefit plan (the  Programs ), to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, the Firm may
collect and process various data that is personal to me, including my name, address, work location,
hire date, Social Security or Social Insurance or taxpayer identification number (required for tax
purposes), type and amount of SIP or other benefit plan award, citizenship or residency (required
for tax purposes) and other similar information reasonably necessary for the administration of such
Programs (collectively referred to as  Information ) and provide such Information to its affiliates
and BNY Mellon (and its affiliates) or any other service provider, whether in the United States or
elsewhere, as is reasonably necessary for the administration of the Programs and under the laws of
these jurisdictions. I understand that, in certain circumstances, foreign courts, law enforcement
agencies or regulatory agencies may be entitled to access the Information. I understand that,
unless I explicitly authorize otherwise, the Firm, its affiliates and its service providers
(through their respective employees in charge of the relevant electronic and manual processing)
will use this Information only for purposes of administering the Programs. I understand that, in
the United States and in other countries to which such Information may be transferred for the
administration of the Programs, the level of data protection is not equivalent to data protection
standards in the member states of the European Union, Canada or certain Canadian provinces. I
understand that, upon request, to Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 34th
Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, to the extent required under the laws of
the applicable jurisdiction, I may have access to and obtain communication of the Information and
may exercise any of my rights in respect of such Information, including objecting to the processing
of the Information and requesting that the Information be corrected (if wrong), completed or
clarified (if incomplete or equivocal), or erased (if cannot legally be collected or kept). Upon
request, to the extent required under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, Equity Compensation
(division of HCM) will also provide me, free of charge, with a list of all the service providers
used in connection with the Programs at the time of request. I understand that, if I refuse to
authorize the use and transfer of the Information consistent with the above, I may not benefit from
the Programs. I authorize the use and transfer of the Information consistent with the above for the
period of administration of the Programs. In particular, I authorize (within the limits described
above): (i) the data processing by the Firm (which means GS Inc. and its subsidiaries and
affiliates); (ii) the data processing by BNY Mellon and its affiliates; (iii) the data processing
by the Firm s other service providers; and (iv) the data transfer to the United States and other
countries. I further acknowledge that the Information may be retained by such persons beyond the
period of administration of the Programs to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable
jurisdiction and I so authorize. 

Other Legal Notices: 

FOR ARGENTINA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This is a private offer. It is not subject to the supervision of the Comision Nacional de
Valores (CNV) or any other governmental authority in Argentina.

FOR AUSTRALIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

GS Inc. undertakes that it will, at any time until the Delivery Date, within a reasonable
period of you so requesting, provide you with a copy of the rules of the SIP and/or the Australian
dollar equivalent of the market price of GS Inc. s shares. This information may be obtained by
sending a written request to Head of Securities Compliance   Goldman Sachs   Partners Australia
Pty Ltd.

-2- 

Any advice given by GS Inc. in connection with the SIP is general advice only. Nothing in the
documentation is to be taken to constitute a recommendation or statement of opinion that is
intended to influence a person or persons in making a decision to accept an Award and you should
consider obtaining your own financial product and/or legal advice from an independent person. The
documentation does not take into account the objectives, financial situation or needs of any
particular person. Before acting on the information contained in the documentation, or making a
decision to participate, you should seek professional advice as to whether participation is
appropriate in light of your personal circumstances.

FOR BRAZIL EMPLOYEES ONLY 

Please note that the offer of an award under the SIP does not constitute a public offer in
Brazil, and therefore it is not subject to registration with the Brazilian authorities.

According to Brazilian regulations, individuals resident in Brazil must inform the Central Bank of
Brazil yearly the amounts of any nature, the assets and rights (including cash and other deposits)
held outside of the Brazilian territory. Please consult your own legal counsel on the terms and
conditions for presentation of such information.

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with Portuguese
translations of the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original
English version of these documents controls. (Ao aceitar esta outorga, Voc  reconhece que a Empresa
Ihe disponibilizou a vers o em portugu s do Award Summary, do Award Agreement e do Signature Card;
por m a vers o original em ingl s desses documentos prevalecer .)

FOR CANADA EMPLOYEES IN QUEBEC ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and agree that you and the Firm expressly wish that
all documents related to the Award(s) (including, without limitation, the SIP, this Signature Card,
the Award Agreement and the Award Summary) be in English only.

En acceptant le ou les octrois, vous reconnaissez et acceptez que les parties souhaitent
express ment que tous les documents se rapportant   l octroi ou aux octrois (incluant, sans limit 
la g n ralit  de ce qui pr c de, le document du r gime, cette carte de signature, la convention
d octroi et le sommaire d octroi) soient en anglais seulement.

FOR THE PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF CHINA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

All documentation in relation to the Award(s) is intended for your personal use and in your
capacity as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) and is being given to you solely for the
purpose of providing you with information concerning the Award(s) which the Firm may grant to you
as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) in accordance with the terms of the SIP, this
documentation and the applicable Award Agreement(s). The grant of the Award(s) has not been and
will not be registered with the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of
China pursuant to relevant securities laws and regulations, and the Award(s) may not be offered or
sold within the mainland of the People s Republic of China by means of any of the documentation in
relation to the Award(s) through a public offering or in circumstances which require a registration
or approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of China in
accordance with the relevant securities laws and regulations.

FOR FRANCE EMPLOYEES ONLY 

Disclaimer: The current award is not covered by any prospectus which is the subject of the
AMF s approval. Grantees can only receive this award for their own account ( compte propre ) in the
conditions laid down by articles D. 411-1, D. 411-2, D. 411-3, D. 411-4, D. 734-1, D. 744-1, D. 754-1
and D. 764-1 of the French Monetary and Financial Code. Any direct or indirect dissemination into
the public of the financial instruments acquired can only take place within the conditions of
articles L. 411-1, L. 411-2, L. 412-1 and L. 621-8 -to L. 621-8-3 of the French Monetary and
Financial Code.

By accepting this award, you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with French translations of
the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original English version of
these documents control.

Avertissement: La pr sente attribution ne donne pas lieu   un prospectus soumis au visa de
l Autorit  des marches financiers. Les personnes qui y participent ne peuvent le faire que pour
compte propre dans les conditions fix es par les articles D. 411-1, D. 411-2, D. 411-3, D. 411-4,
D. 734-1, D. 744-1, D. 754-1 et D. 764-1 du Code monetaire et financier. La diffusion, directe ou
indirecte, dans le public des instruments financiers ainsi acquis, ne peut  tre r alis e que dans
les conditions pr vues aux articles L. 411-1, L. 411-2 L. 412-1 et L. 621-8   L. 621-8-3 du Code
mon taire et financier.

En acceptant cet octroi, vous reconnaissez que la Soci t  vous   transmis une version fran ais de
l  Award Summary  (R sum  de l Octroi), l  Award Agreement  (Contrat d Octroi) et de la  Signature Card 
(Carte de Signature), mais que seule la version originale en langue anglaise fait foi. 

FOR GERMANY EMPLOYEES ONLY 

The Award(s) are offered to you by GS Inc. in accordance with the terms of the SIP which are
summarized in the Award Summary. More information about GS Inc. is
available on  www.gs.com . You
are being offered Award(s) under the SIP in order to provide an additional incentive and to
encourage employee share ownership and so increase your interest in the Firm s success. Please
refer to the section entitled  Shares Available for Awards  in the SIP for information on the maximum
number of GS Inc. shares that can be offered under the SIP. The obligation to publish a prospectus
under the Prospectus Directive does not apply to the offer because of Article 4(1)(e) of that
directive.

Die Pr mien werden lhnen von der Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (,,GS Inc. ) gem   den in der
Pr mien bersicht aufgef hrten Bestimmungen des Erwerbsplans angeboten. Weitere Informationen  ber
GS Inc. finden Sie unter  www.gs.com . Die Pr mien werden lhnen im Rahmen des Erwerbsplans angeboten,
um einen zus tzlichen Anreiz darzustellen und Sie als Mitarbeiter zum Erwerb von Aktien zu
ermutigen, um so Ihren Anteil am Erfolg des Unternehmens zu vergr  ern. Informationen zur Anzahl
der im Rahmen des Plans angebotenen GS Inc.-Aktien entnehmen Sie bitte dem Abschnitt  als Pr mien
erh ltliche Aktien  im Erwerbsplan. Die Verpflichtung zur Ver ffentlichung eines Emissionsprospekts
gem   der europ ischen Prospektrichtlinie trifft auf Grund von Artikel 4(1)(e) dieser Richtlinie
nicht auf dieses Angebot zu.

FOR HONG KONG EMPLOYEES ONLY 

WARNING:

The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. You
are advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer. If you are in doubt about any of the
contents of this document, you should obtain independent professional advice.

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and accept that you will not be permitted to transfer
awards to persons who fall outside the definition of  qualifying persons  in the Companies
Ordinance ( i.e. , a person who is not a current or former director, employee, officer, consultant of
the Firm or a person other than the offeree s wife, husband, widow, widower, child or step-child
under the age of 18 years, or as otherwise defined), even if otherwise permitted under the SIP or
any of the related documents.

FOR INDIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This website does not invite offers from the public for subscription or purchase of the
securities of any body corporate under any law for the time being in force in India. The website is
not a prospectus under the applicable laws for the time being in force in India. Goldman Sachs does
not intend to market, promote, invite offers for subscription or purchase of the securities of any
body corporate by this website. The information provided on this website is for the record only.
Any person who subscribes or purchases securities of any body corporate should consult his own
investment advisers before making any investments. Goldman Sachs shall not be liable or responsible
for any such investment decision made by any person.

FOR INDONESIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with Bahasa Indonesia
translations of the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original
English version of these documents controls.

Dengan menerima Putusan, Anda menyatakan bahwa Perusahaan telah memberikan Anda terjemahan Bahasa
Indonesia dari Ikhtisar Putusan, Perjanjian Putusan dan Perjanjian dengan Tanda Tangan, tapi versi
asli dalam Bahasa Inggris dari dokumen-dokumen ini tetap mengendalikan.

FOR ITALY EMPLOYEES ONLY 

No person resident or located in Italy other than the original recipients of this document and
any other document related to the Award(s) may rely on such documents or their content. The offer
of the Award(s) under the SIP (and the delivery of underlying shares) is exempted from prospectus
requirements under Italian securities legislation.

Under Italian regulations, tax payers must report in their annual tax returns any foreign financial
assets in excess of EUR 10,000. Please consult your own advisors regarding the terms and conditions
of this reporting obligation.

FOR MONACO EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting your Award(s), you expressly renounce the jurisdiction of Monaco (and, if
applicable, France and notably the application of articles 14 and 15 of the French Civil Code) in
connection with any dispute relating to your Award(s).

FOR POLAND EMPLOYEES ONLY 

The Award(s) are offered to you by GS Inc. in accordance with the terms of the SIP which are
summarized in the Award Summary. More information about GS

-3- 

Inc. is available on  www.gs.com . You are being offered Award(s) under the SIP in order to provide
an additional incentive and to encourage employee share ownership and so increase your interest in
the Firm s success. Please refer to the section entitled  Shares Available for Awards  in the SIP
for information on the maximum number of GS Inc. shares that can be offered under the SIP. The
obligation to publish a prospectus under the Prospectus Directive does not apply to the offer
because of Article 4(1)(e) of that directive.

Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (,,GS Inc. ) przyznaje
Pa stwu Premi  (premie) zgodnie z warunkami
Motywacyjnego Programu Akcji Pracowniczych opisanymi w Og lnych Warunkach Przyznania Premii. Wi cej
informacji na temat GS Inc. mo na uzyska  na stronie  www.gs.com.Oferowana  Pa stwu na podstawie
Motywacyjnego Programu Akcji Pracowniczych Premia ma stanowi  dodatkow  motywacj  i rozwija 
akcjonariat pracowniczy a w konsekwencji zwi kszy  Pa stwa zaanga owanie w sukces Firmy. Prosimy
zapozna  si  z dzia em zatytu owanym Akcje dost pne w ramach Premii w Motywacyjnym Programie Akcji
Pracowniczych, w celu uzyskania informacji na temat maksymalnej liczby akcji GS Inc. oferowanych na
podstawie Motywacyjnego Programu Akcji Pracowniczych. Obowi zek publikowania prospektu wynikaj cy z
Dyrektywy w Sprawie Prospektu Emisyjnego nie ma zastosowania do niniejszej oferty, ze wzgl du na
brzmienie art. 4 ust. 1 lit. e wskazanej powy ej dyrektywy.

FOR RUSSIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

None of the information contained in the documents referred to in paragraph 8 of this Signature
Card or in this Signature Card constitutes an advertisement of the Award(s) in Russia and must not
be passed on to third parties or otherwise be made publicly available in Russia. The Award(s) have
not been and will not be registered in Russia and are not intended for  placement  or  public
circulation  in Russia.

FOR SAUDI ARABIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

The stock incentive plan documents may not be distributed in the Kingdom except to such persons
as are permitted under the Offers of Securities Regulations issued by the Capital Market Authority.
The Capital Market Authority does not make any representation as to the accuracy or completeness of
the stock incentive plan documents, and expressly disclaims any liability whatsoever for any loss
arising from, or incurred in reliance upon, any part of the stock incentive plan documents.
Prospective purchasers of the securities offered hereby should conduct their own due diligence on
the accuracy of the information

relating to the securities. If you do not understand the contents
of the stock incentive plan documents you should consult an authorized financial adviser.

I acknowledge that the grant of Award(s) to me by the Firm,
and my acceptance of the Award(s), is conditional upon the Capital Market Authority,
having received notification of the proposed offer
of Award(s) to me by the Firm, and not advising that the offer is not to be made or otherwise
prohibiting the offer within ten (10) business days of such notification (the  Condition ). I
agree that if the Condition is not satisfied, the Award(s) and this document will be void    ab
initio   . 

FOR SWEDEN EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and accept that any transfer provisions (including,
where applicable, escrow and other similar provisions) in the SIP or any related documents do not
apply to you.

FOR UK EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This document is approved by Goldman Sachs International ( GSI ), Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet
Street, London EC4A 2BB, which is authorized and regulated by the Financial Services Authority. The
document relates to investments and investment services of GS Inc. and other institutions,
including BNY Mellon, relating to custodial and delivery operations. In some or all respects, the
regulatory system applying to these entities, including any compensation arrangements and rules
made under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 for the protection of private customers,
will be different from that of the United Kingdom.

This document does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial situation and
particular needs of any specific person who may receive it. Recipients should seek their own
financial advice.

The Award(s) is/are subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the SIP and the Award
Agreement(s). The price of shares and the income from such shares (if any) can fluctuate and may be
affected by changes in the exchange rate for U.S. Dollars. Past performance will not necessarily be
repeated. Levels and bases of taxation may change from time to time. Investors should consult their
own tax advisers in order to understand tax consequences. GS Inc. has (and its associates,
including GSI, may have) a material interest in the shares and the investments that are the subject
of this document.

Signature:

Date:

Print Name:

Employee ID #:

-4- 

</EX-10.45>

<EX-10.46>
 6
 y88213exv10w46.htm
 EX-10.46: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS (EMPLOYEES IN ASIA OUTSIDE CHINA)

exv10w46 

Exhibit 10.46

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 

Signature Card For      Year-End Awards (Asia) and the BNY Mellon Custody Account   
 and Consent to Receive Electronic Delivery  

IMPORTANT: PLEASE REVIEW, EXECUTE AND RETURN THIS FORM TO: EQUITY COMPENSATION 
(DIVISION OF HCM), 30 HUDSON STREET, 34TH FLOOR, JERSEY CITY, NJ 07302. 

YOU MUST PROPERLY EXECUTE THIS FORM TO ACKNOWLEDGE ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF 
YOUR AWARD(S) AND RELATED MATTERS. 

1. I have received and agree to be bound by The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  SIP ) and the Award Agreement(s) applicable to me in connection with the
     Year-End Award(s) (the   Award(s) )  that I have been granted by the Firm (as defined in the
SIP). I confirm that I have accepted the Award(s) subject to the terms and conditions contained in
the SIP and the Award  Agreement(s),  including but not limited to, the requirement that disputes
relating to the Award(s) and the Award Agreement(s) be decided through arbitration in New York City
and be governed by New York law.

As a condition of this grant, I understand that the Award(s) (as well as any other award that the
Firm may grant to me under the SIP) is/are subject to other governing law provisions (as outlined
in this signature card (the  Signature Card ), in the current or otherwise then current Award
Summary (as defined below) or otherwise as may be required under applicable law) and, as a
condition to receiving such awards, I agree to be bound thereby. I also understand that the Firm
may grant to me other awards under the SIP that also may contain (among other terms and conditions)
arbitration and other governing law provisions and, as a condition to receiving such awards, I
agree to be bound thereby. As a condition of this grant, I agree to provide upon request an
appropriate certification regarding my U.S. tax status on Form  W-8BEN,  Form W-9, or other
appropriate form, and I understand that failure to supply a required form may result in the
imposition of backup withholding on certain payments I receive pursuant to this grant.

I understand and acknowledge that I am agreeing to arbitrate all claims, in accordance with the
arbitration procedure set forth in the Award  Agreement(s).  The Award Agreement(s) does not include
an agreement to arbitrate claims on a collective or class basis. It is explicitly agreed that, to
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no arbitrator shall have the authority to consider
class or collective claims, to order consolidation or to join different claimants or grant relief
other than on an individual basis to the individual claimant involved.

Further, as a condition of this grant, if I am a person who has worked in the  United
Kingdom  at any time during the earnings period relating to any award under the SIP, as
determined by the Firm, when requested and as directed by the Firm, I will agree to a Joint
Election under s431 ITEPA 2003 of the laws of the United Kingdom for full or partial disapplication
of Chapter 2 Income Tax (Earnings and Pension) Act 2003 under the laws of the United Kingdom and
will sign and return such election in respect of all future deliveries of shares underlying the
Award(s) and any previous grants made to me under the SIP and understand that the Firm intends to
meet its delivery obligations in shares with respect to my Award(s), except as may be prohibited by
law or described in the accompanying Award Agreement(s) or supplementary materials.

If I have worked in  Switzerland  at any time during the earnings period relating to the
Award(s) granted to me as determined by the Firm, (i) I acknowledge that my Award(s) are subject to
tax in accordance with the rulings and method of calculation of taxable values to be agreed by the
Firm with the Federal and/or Zurich/Geneva cantonal/communal tax authorities or as otherwise
directed by the Firm, and (ii) I hereby agree to be bound by any rulings agreed by the Firm in
respect of any Award(s), which is expected to result in taxation at the time of delivery of shares
(or cash or other property in lieu thereof), and (iii) I undertake to declare and make a full and
accurate income tax declaration in respect of my Award(s) in accordance with the above ruling or as
directed by the Firm.

I understand and acknowledge that any transfer provisions (including, where applicable, escrow and
other similar provisions, but specifically excluding any transfer restrictions imposed on any
Award(s) in the Award
 Agreement(s)  or the SIP) in the SIP or related documents will not apply to me
(i) to the extent that the applicability of those provisions would affect the availability of
relevant exemptions or tax favorable treatment, or (ii) otherwise in circumstances determined by
the Firm in its sole discretion.

2. I have read and understand the Firm s  Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based
Awards  policy (the  Notice Policy ) available through the HR Workways    link on GSWeb or as
otherwise provided to me, pursuant to which I am required to provide certain specified advance
notice of my intent to leave employment with the Firm. I understand that in executing this form, I
will be agreeing to provide my employing entity with advance written notice of my intention to
leave employment with the Firm as follows:

In the Americas: 60 days in advance of my termination date 

In Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India: 90 days in advance of my termination date 

In Japan and Asia Ex-Japan (including Australia and excluding India): 90 days in advance
of my termination date if I am a Vice President or 

an Executive Director; 60 days in advance of my termination date in all other cases 

and that, subject to applicable law, the provisions of the Notice Policy constitute a permanent
change to my terms and conditions of employment. I agree to this change in consideration of my
continued employment with the Firm and my acceptance of the Award(s), and I agree to be bound by
the Notice Policy as in effect from time-to-time.

I understand that if under local law or my contract of employment I have a notice requirement that
is longer than those specified above, the longer notice period will apply. Also, I understand that
if my terms and conditions of employment provide for a probation period after I begin employment
with the Firm (e.g., in Hong Kong, India, Paris or Frankfurt), this Notice Policy will apply only
if notice of termination of employment is given (whether by me or by the Firm) after the probation
period has ended.

I also understand that the terms and conditions of my employment shall be permanently changed so
that, in the event that I resign from the Firm, the Firm may:

Unilaterally waive or reduce the notice period otherwise applicable to my employment, or 

Take such other action as shall have that effect. 

I acknowledge that the Firm retains its right to bring forward the end of the notice period to such
earlier date, and that I will not be entitled to any salary, wages, or benefits after such earlier
date. In addition, I understand that I will not receive pay in lieu for any period of notice that
has been waived or reduced.

I understand that unless the notice period is waived by agreement or unilaterally as set out above,
or I have exercised a statutory right to make a payment in lieu of my notice period, I will be paid
my base salary (and/or draw for commissioned employees) and will continue to receive all mandatory
benefits during the notice period.

I understand that during my notice period I may be required to remain away from the Firm s offices,
and/or be removed from any assigned duties or assigned to other suitable duties.

I understand that if I fail to give the full amount of notice as set out above, or to comply in any
respect with the Notice Policy, I will have failed to meet an obligation I have under an agreement
with the Firm, as a result of which the Firm may have certain rights and I may be subject to
certain legal and equitable rights and remedies, including, without limitation, the forfeiture of
the Award(s) and any other awards granted to me (whether before or after the Award(s)) under the
SIP. The forfeiture of such Award(s) will also apply where I fail to give the full amount of notice
by exercising any right I may have under applicable legislation to make a payment in lieu of such
notice. The Firm may hold me personally liable for any damages that it suffers as a result of the
breach. I also understand that, if I fail to comply with the Notice Policy, the Firm may be
entitled to an injunction from a court restraining me from violating it.

This agreement concerning my notice period is being made for and on behalf of my Goldman Sachs
employing entity, and implementation of the Notice Policy does not create an employment
relationship between me and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ( GS Inc. ).

3. I have read and understand the Firm s hedging and pledging policies (including, without
limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS Shares, Equity Awards
and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and agree to be bound by them (with respect to
the Award(s) and any prior awards under the SIP), both during and following my employment with the
Firm.

4. If a custody account is required, I request that The Bank of New York Mellon ( BNY Mellon )
(successor in interest to Mellon Bank, N.A.) open a custody account for me as described in the
enclosed Custody Agreement among BNY Mellon (as successor in interest to Mellon Bank N.A.), GS
Inc., and myself. I have received and agree to be bound by the Custody Agreement (or any other such
custody agreement previously entered into by me or on my behalf), including the applicable
restrictions on transfers, pledges and withdrawals of shares of the common stock of GS Inc.
( Shares ), the provisions permitting the Firm to monitor my custody account, and the limitations
on the liability of BNY Mellon and the Firm. I also agree to open an account with any other
custodian or broker selected by the Firm, if the Firm, in its sole discretion, requires me to open
an account with such custodian or broker as a condition to delivery of Shares (or cash or other
property) underlying the Award(s).

5. If the Firm advanced or loaned me funds to pay certain taxes (including income taxes and Social
Security, or similar contributions) in connection with the Award(s) (or does so in the future), and
if I have not signed a separate loan agreement governing repayment, I authorize the Firm to
withhold from my compensation any amounts required to reimburse it for any such advance or loan to
the extent permitted by applicable law.

I understand and agree that, if I leave the Firm, I am required immediately to repay any
outstanding amount. I further understand and agree that the Firm has the right to offset, to the
extent permitted by the Award Agreement and applicable law (including Section 409A of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which limits the Firm s ability to offset in the case of
United States taxpayers under certain circumstances), any outstanding amounts that I then owe the
Firm against its delivery obligations under the Award(s) or against any other amounts the Firm then
owes me. I understand that the delivery of Shares pursuant to the Award(s) is conditioned on my
satisfaction of any applicable taxes or social security contributions (collectively referred to as
 tax  or  taxes  for purposes of the SIP and all related documents) in accordance with the SIP. To
the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require me to provide
amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations
imposed on me or the Firm in connection with the grant, vesting or delivery of the Award(s) by
requiring me to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or
otherwise), (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to me
pursuant to the Award(s) or (iii) as otherwise permitted in the Award Agreement(s) .  However, in no
event shall any such choice or the choice specified in paragraph 6, below, determine, or give me
any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or payment of tax obligations.

6. If I am an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the
Firm s      fiscal year), I acknowledge and agree that the Firm may, in its sole discretion,
require (to the extent permitted by applicable law) that I provide for a reserve in an amount the
Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or potential
tax consequences related to my separate employment contracts by requiring me to choose between
remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deductions or otherwise) or (ii) in the form
of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered
to me pursuant to the  Award(s)  (or
any other of my awards outstanding under the SIP).

7. In connection with any Award Agreement or other interest I may receive in the SIP or any Shares
that I may receive in connection with the Award(s) or any award I have previously received or may
receive, or in connection with any amendment or variation thereof or any documents listed in
paragraph 8, I hereby consent to (a) the acceptance by me of the Award(s) electronically, (b) the
giving of instructions in electronic form whether by me or the Firm, and (c) the receipt in
electronic form at my email address maintained at Goldman Sachs or via Goldman Sachs  intranet site
(or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, at such other email address as I may specify, or via
such other electronic means as the Firm and I may agree) all notices and information that the Firm
is required by law to send to me in connection therewith including, without limitation, any
document (or part thereof) constituting part of a prospectus covering securities that have been
registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the information contained in any such document
and any information required to be delivered to me under Rule 428 of the U.S. Securities Act of
1933, including, for example, the annual report to security holders or the annual report on Form
10-K of GS Inc. for its latest fiscal year, and that all prior elections that I may have made
relating to the delivery of any such document in physical form are hereby revoked and superseded. I
agree to check Goldman Sachs  intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, such other
electronic site as the Firm and I may agree) periodically as I deem appropriate for any new notices
or information concerning the SIP. I understand that I am not required to consent to the receipt of
such documents in electronic form in order to receive the Award(s) and that I may decline to
receive such documents in electronic form by contacting Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30
Hudson Street, 34th Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, which will provide me
with hard copies of such documents upon request. I also understand that this consent is voluntary
and may be revoked at any time on three business days  written notice.

8. I hereby acknowledge that I have received in electronic form in accordance with my consent in
paragraph 7 the following documents:

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Summary of The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Custody Agreement with BNY Mellon; 

The 2009 Annual Report for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.; 

The annual report on Form 10-K for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2009; 

The Award Agreement(s); and 

Summaries of the Award(s) ( Award Summary ). 

9. I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any notifications,
filings or remittances of funds that may be required in connection with the SIP or otherwise on my
behalf. Further, if I am an employee who is resident in South Africa at a relevant time, by
accepting my Award(s), I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any
required notification on my behalf to the Reserve Bank of South Africa (or its authorized dealer)
in relation to my participation in the SIP and to any acquisition of Shares for no consideration
under the SIP or other similar filing that may otherwise be

required in South Africa. I acknowledge
that any such authorization is effective from the date of acceptance of my Award(s) until such time
as I expressly revoke the authorization by written notice to any appropriate representative of the
Firm. I understand that this authorization does not create any obligation on the Firm to deal with
any such notifications, filings or remittances of funds that I may be required to make in
connection with the SIP and I accept full responsibility in this regard.

10. The granting of the Award(s), the delivery of the underlying Shares (or cash or other property)
and any subsequent dividends or dividend equivalent payments, and the receipt of any proceeds in
connection with the Award(s) may result in legal or regulatory requirements in some jurisdictions.
I understand and agree that it is my responsibility to ensure that I comply with any legal or
regulatory requirements in respect of the Award(s).

11. I confirm that I have filed all tax returns that I am required to file and paid all taxes I am
required to pay with respect to awards previously granted to me by the Firm, and I agree, with
respect to both the Award(s) as well as awards previously granted to me by the Firm, to file all
tax returns I am required to file and to pay all taxes I am required to pay.

Consent to Data Collection, Processing and Transfers: 

I understand and agree that in connection with the SIP and any other Firm benefit plan (the  Programs ), to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, the Firm may
collect and process various data that is personal to me, including my name, address, work location,
hire date, Social Security or Social Insurance or taxpayer identification number (required for tax
purposes), type and amount of SIP or other benefit plan award, citizenship or residency (required
for tax purposes) and other similar information reasonably necessary for the administration of such
Programs (collectively referred to as  Information ) and provide such Information to its affiliates
and BNY Mellon (and its affiliates) or any other service provider, whether in the United States or
elsewhere, as is reasonably necessary for the administration of the Programs and under the laws of
these jurisdictions. I understand that, in certain circumstances, foreign courts, law enforcement
agencies or regulatory agencies may be entitled to access the Information. I understand that,
unless I explicitly authorize otherwise, the Firm, its affiliates and its service providers
(through their respective employees in charge of the relevant electronic and manual processing)
will use this Information only for purposes of administering the Programs. I understand that, in
the United States and in other countries to which such Information may be transferred for the
administration of the Programs, the level of data protection is not equivalent to data protection
standards in the member states of the European Union, Canada or certain Canadian provinces. I
understand that, upon request, to Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 34th
Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, to the extent required under the laws of
the applicable jurisdiction, I may have access to and obtain communication of the Information and
may exercise any of my rights in respect of such Information, including objecting to the processing
of the Information and requesting that the Information be corrected (if wrong), completed or
clarified (if incomplete or equivocal), or erased (if cannot legally be collected or kept). Upon
request, to the extent required under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, Equity Compensation
(division of HCM) will also provide me, free of charge, with a list of all the service providers
used in connection with the Programs at the time of request. I understand that, if I refuse to
authorize the use and transfer of the Information consistent with the above, I may not benefit from
the Programs. I authorize the use and transfer of the Information consistent with the above for the
period of administration of the Programs. In particular, I authorize (within the limits described
above): (i) the data processing by the Firm (which means GS Inc. and its subsidiaries and
affiliates); (ii) the data processing by BNY Mellon and its affiliates; (iii) the data processing
by the Firm s other service providers; and (iv) the data transfer to the United States and other
countries. I further acknowledge that the Information may be retained by such persons beyond the
period of administration of the Programs to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable
jurisdiction and I so authorize. 

NON-COMPETITION AND NON-SOLICITATION RESTRICTIONS FOR EMPLOYEES PROVIDING SERVICES IN AUSTRALIA, HONG KONG, INDIA, INDONESIA, JAPAN, KOREA, MALAYSIA, SINGAPORE AND TAIWAN 

In addition to and without limiting any provisions in the SIP or the applicable Award
Agreement(s) (including without limitation the Award forfeiture, termination or repayment
provisions), I hereby agree to and acknowledge the following:

(a) If I am providing services to the Firm in Australia, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea,
Malaysia, Singapore or Taiwan (  GS Asia excluding PRC  ), in view of my importance to the Firm, I
hereby agree that the Firm would likely suffer significant harm from me competing with the Firm for
some period of time after my employment ends. Accordingly, I hereby agree that I will not, without
the written consent of the Firm, during the Restricted Period in the Geographic Area:

(i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation
interest in, any Covered Competitive Enterprise; or

-2- 

(ii) associate (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner,
director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Covered Competitive Enterprise and in connection
with such association engage in, or directly or indirectly manage or supervise personnel engaged
in, any activity:

A. which is similar or substantially related to any activity in which I was engaged, in whole
or in part, at the Firm,

B. for which I had direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility at the Firm, or

C. which calls for the application of the same or similar specialized knowledge or skills as
those utilized by me in my activities with the Firm,

at any time during the one-year period immediately prior to the end of the Employment Period, and,
in any such case, irrespective of the purpose of the activity or whether the activity is or was in
furtherance of advisory, agency, proprietary or fiduciary business of either the Firm or the
Covered Competitive Enterprise.

(By way of example only, this provision precludes an  advisory  investment banker from joining a
leveraged-buyout firm, a research analyst from becoming a proprietary trader or joining a hedge
fund, or an information systems professional from joining a management or other consulting firm and
providing information technology consulting services or advice to any Covered Competitive
Enterprise, in each case without the written consent of the Firm.)

(b) I hereby agree that during the Restricted Period, I will not, in any manner, directly or
indirectly, (1) Solicit a Covered Client to transact business with a Covered Competitive Enterprise
or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the Firm, or (2) interfere with or damage (or
attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship between the Firm and a Covered Client.

(c) I hereby agree that during the Restricted Period, I will not, in any manner, directly or
indirectly:

(i) Solicit any Covered Personnel to resign from the Firm or to apply for or accept
employment, consultancy, partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive
Enterprise;

(ii) hire or participate in the hiring of any Covered Personnel (whether as an employee,
consultant, or otherwise) by a Covered Competitive Enterprise;

(iii) participate in the decision to offer Covered Personnel employment, consultancy,
admission into partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive Enterprise; or

(iv) participate in the identification of Covered Personnel for potential hiring, consultancy
or admission into partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive Enterprise.

I acknowledge that I will have violated this provision if, during the Restricted Period, any
Covered Personnel are Solicited, hired, made a consultant or are accepted into partnership,
membership or similar status:

(i) by any Covered Competitive Enterprise which I form, which bears my name, or in which I am
a partner, a member or have similar status, or in which I possess or control a greater than de
minimis equity ownership, voting or profit participation; or

(ii) by any Covered Competitive Enterprise, and I have, or are intended to have, direct or
indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Covered Personnel.

(d) I acknowledge and agree that these Restrictions form part of my terms and conditions of
employment. I also acknowledge and agree that these Restrictions supersede any restrictions that I
may be subject to under the non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions for employees
providing services in Australia, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and
Taiwan as set out in (a) to (n) of the Signature Card For 2009 Year-End Awards (Asia) and the BNY
Mellon Custody Account and Consent to Receive Electronic Delivery.

(e) Prior to accepting employment with any other person or entity during the Restricted Period, I
will provide any prospective employer with written notice of these Restrictions with a copy
containing the prospective employer s name and contact information delivered simultaneously to the
Firm.

(f) I understand that the Restrictions may limit my ability to earn a livelihood in a business
similar to the business of the Firm. I acknowledge that a violation on my part of any of the
Restrictions would cause immeasurable and irreparable damage to the Firm. Accordingly, I agree
that the Firm will be entitled to injunctive relief in any court of competent jurisdiction for any
actual or threatened violation of any of Restrictions in addition to any other remedies it may
have. In the event that I violate any of the Restrictions, I acknowledge that the Restricted
Period shall automatically be extended by the period of time that I was in violation of the said
Restriction(s). I also acknowledge that a violation of any of the Restrictions would constitute my
failure to meet an obligation I have under an agreement between me and the Firm that was entered
into in connection with my employment with the Firm, and may constitute  Cause  for purposes of any
equity-based awards granted to me by the Firm and will result in my forfeiting such equity-based
awards.

(g) If any provision (or part of a provision) of the Restrictions is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision
will be deemed modified or severed to the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity,
illegality or unenforceability and the remaining such provisions will not be affected thereby;
provided, however, that if any of the Restrictions are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid, illegal or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum time period such court
determines is acceptable to permit such provision to be enforceable, such Restrictions will be
deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such time period in order to make
such provision enforceable hereunder.

(h) The promises contained in the Restrictions are provided by me for the benefit of each Firm
entity and I acknowledge and agree that each Firm entity may independently enforce the Restrictions
against me. Any benefit that I give or am deemed to have given by virtue of the Restrictions is
received jointly and severally by each Firm entity (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any Firm
entity to which I provide services from time to time).

(i) For the purposes of the Restrictions, GS Inc. enters into the SIP and Award Agreement(s)
applicable to me in connection with the Award(s) in its own capacity and as agent for each other
Firm entity. The consideration for the promises in these Restrictions is given to me by GS Inc. on
its own behalf and on behalf of each other Firm entity (including, for the avoidance of doubt, any
Firm entity to which I provide services from time to time).

(j) I acknowledge that the Restrictions set out in this clause are reasonable and necessary for the
protection of the legitimate interests of the Firm, and that, having regard to those interests,
such restrictions do not impose an unreasonable burden on me.

(k) The Restrictions shall remain in full force and effect and survive the termination of my
employment for any reason whatsoever.

(l) If I am a Managing Director subject to a Managing Director Agreement, the Restrictions shall
not apply to me.

(m) If I am a Private Wealth Management employee subject to an Employee Agreement Regarding
Confidential and Proprietary Information and Materials and Non-Solicitation, I will not be subject
to the restrictions contained in clauses (b) and (c) of the Restrictions.

(n) For the purposes of these Restrictions only, the following terms have the following meanings:

Asia   means Australia, the PRC, Hong Kong SAR, Taiwan, Japan, Korea, India, Singapore,
Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines, Brunei and Vietnam.

Covered Client   means any client or prospective client of the Firm (i) to whom I provided
services in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period, or (ii) for whom I transacted
business in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period, or (iii) whose identity became
known to me in connection with my relationship with or employment by the Firm in the 12 months
prior to the end of the Employment Period and with respect to whom I had access to confidential
information.

Covered Competitive Enterprise   means a business enterprise that (i) engages in any activity,
or (ii) owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity that, in
either case, competes anywhere with any activity in which the Firm is engaged. The activities
covered by the previous sentence include, without limitation, financial services such as investment
banking, public or private finance, lending, financial advisory services, private investing (for
anyone other than me and members of my family), merchant banking, asset or hedge fund management,
insurance or reinsurance underwriting or brokerage, property management, or securities, futures,
commodities, energy, derivatives or currency brokerage, sales, lending, custody, clearance,
settlement or trading.

Covered Extended Absence   means my absence from active employment for at least 180 days in
any 12-month period as a result of my incapacity due to mental or physical illness, as determined
by the Firm.

Covered Personnel   means any Firm employee, consultant or Managing Director with whom I had
material contact or dealings in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period or in
relation to whom I had access to confidential information.

Employment Period   means the period from the commencement of my employment with, or transfer,
assignment or secondment to, any member of the Firm in GS Asia excluding PRC and ending with the
date of termination of my employment with, or transfer, assignment or secondment to, any such
member of the Firm in GS Asia excluding PRC. For the purposes of the definition of  Employment
Period  in these Restrictions, the Employment Period does not terminate when I commence employment
with, or am transferred, assigned or seconded to, another member of the Firm in GS Asia excluding
PRC.

Firm   means GS Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates and its and their respective successors.

Geographic Area   means (i) the jurisdiction in Asia in which I am located as of the date of
execution of the Signature Card; and/or (ii) any other jurisdiction in Asia in relation to which I
have substantial product and/or

-3- 

geographical market responsibilities; and/or (iii) any other jurisdiction in Asia in relation
to which I have substantial employee managerial responsibilities in the 12 months prior to the end
of the Employment Period; and/or (iv) any other jurisdiction in Asia in relation to which I provide
services in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period.

Notice Date   means the date on which either I or the Firm gives written notice of (i) the
conclusion of my transfer, assignment or secondment to any member of the Firm in GS Asia excluding
PRC, or (ii) the termination of my employment with any member of the Firm in GS Asia excluding PRC
or, if the termination is for cause or Covered Extended Absence, the date on which such termination
occurs, or (iii) if I repudiate my employment contract, any earlier date as determined by the Firm
in its sole discretion. For the purposes of the definition of  Notice Date  in these
Restrictions, the Notice Date does not commence where I am transferring to another Firm entity in
GS Asia excluding PRC.

PRC   means, for the purpose of the Restrictions, the People s Republic of China, excluding
Hong Kong SAR, Macau SAR and Taiwan.

Restricted Period   means (i) during the Employment Period; and (ii) for the period of notice
in my employment contract or the period stated in paragraph 2 of the Signature Card commencing from
the Notice Date (whichever is longer), irrespective of whether the termination is for cause or
Covered Extended Absence or whether I receive a payment in lieu of all or part of that notice
period or whether all of part of the notice period is waived by the Firm or whether I make a
payment in lieu of all or part of that notice period pursuant to a statutory entitlement or with
the Firm s agreement.

Restrictions   means the non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions for employees
providing services in Australia, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Singapore and
Taiwan as set out in (a) to (o) of this section of the Signature Card.

Solicit   means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by
whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner,
to take or refrain from taking any action.

(o) These Restrictions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the
jurisdiction in which I am located and providing services to the Firm at the date of execution of
the Signature Card.

Other Legal Notices: 

FOR ARGENTINA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This is a private offer. It is not subject to the supervision of the Comision Nacional de
Valores (CNV) or any other governmental authority in Argentina.

FOR AUSTRALIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

GS Inc. undertakes that it will, at any time until the Delivery Date, within a reasonable
period of you so requesting, provide you with a copy of the rules of the SIP and/or the Australian
dollar equivalent of the market price of GS Inc. s shares. This information may be obtained by
sending a written request to Head of Securities Compliance   Goldman Sachs   Partners Australia
Pty Ltd.

Any advice given by GS Inc. in connection with the SIP is general advice only. Nothing in the
documentation is to be taken to constitute a recommendation or statement of opinion that is
intended to influence a person or persons in making a decision to accept an Award and you should
consider obtaining your own financial product and/or legal advice from an independent person. The
documentation does not take into account the objectives, financial situation or needs of any
particular person. Before acting on the information contained in the documentation, or making a
decision to participate, you should seek professional advice as to whether participation is
appropriate in light of your personal circumstances.

FOR BRAZIL EMPLOYEES ONLY 

Please note that the offer of an award under the SIP does not constitute a public offer in
Brazil, and therefore it is not subject to registration with the Brazilian authorities.

According to Brazilian regulations, individuals resident in Brazil must inform the Central Bank of
Brazil yearly the amounts of any nature, the assets and rights (including cash and other deposits)
held outside of the Brazilian territory. Please consult your own legal counsel on the terms and
conditions for presentation of such information.

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with Portuguese
translations of the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original
English version of these documents controls. (Ao aceitar esta outorga, Voc  reconhece que a Empresa
Ihe disponibilizou a vers o em portugu s do Award Summary, do Award Agreement e do Signature Card;
por m a vers o original em ingl s desses documentos prevalecer .)

FOR CANADA EMPLOYEES IN QUEBEC ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and agree that you and the Firm expressly wish that
all documents related to the Award(s) (including, without limitation, the SIP, this Signature Card,
the Award Agreement and the Award Summary) be in English only.

En acceptant le ou les octrois, vous reconnaissez et acceptez que les parties souhaitent
express ment que tous les documents se rapportant   l octroi ou aux octrois (incluant, sans limit 
la g n ralit  de ce qui pr c de, le document du r gime, cette carte de signature, la convention
d octroi et le sommaire d octroi) soient en anglais seulement.

FOR THE PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF CHINA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

All documentation in relation to the Award(s) is intended for your personal use and in your
capacity as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) and is being given to you solely for the
purpose of providing you with information concerning the Award(s) which the Firm may grant to you
as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) in accordance with the terms of the SIP, this
documentation and the applicable Award Agreement(s). The grant of the Award(s) has not been and
will not be registered with the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of
China pursuant to relevant securities laws and regulations, and the Award(s) may not be offered or
sold within the mainland of the People s Republic of China by means of any of the documentation in
relation to the Award(s) through a public offering or in circumstances which require a registration
or approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of China in
accordance with the relevant securities laws and regulations.

FOR FRANCE EMPLOYEES ONLY 

Disclaimer: The current award is not covered by any prospectus which is the subject of the
AMF s approval. Grantees can only receive this award for their own account ( compte propre ) in the
conditions laid down by articles  D. 411-1,  D. 411-2, D.411-3, D.411-4, D. 734-1, D. 744-1, D. 754-1
and  D. 764-1  of the French Monetary and Financial Code. Any direct or indirect dissemination into
the public of the financial instruments acquired can only take place within the conditions of
articles L. 411-1, L. 411-2, L. 412-1 and L. 621-8 -to L. 621-8-3 of the French Monetary and
Financial Code.

By accepting this award, you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with French translations of
the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original English version of
these documents control.

Avertissement: La pr sente attribution ne donne pas lieu   un prospectus soumis au visa de
l Autorit  des marches financiers. Les personnes qui y participent ne peuvent le faire que pour
compte propre dans les conditions fix es par les articles D. 411-1, D. 411-2, D.411-3, D.411-4,  D.
734-1,   D. 744-1,  D. 754-1 et D. 764-1 du Code monetaire et financier. La diffusion, directe ou
indirecte, dans le public des instruments financiers ainsi acquis, ne peut  tre r alis e que dans
les conditions pr vues aux articles L. 411-1, L. 411-2 L. 412-1 et L. 621-8   L. 621-8-3 du Code
mon taire et financier.

En acceptant cet octroi, vous reconnaissez que la Soci t  vous   transmis une version fran ais de
l  Award Summary  (R sum  de l Octroi), l  Award Agreement  (Contrat d Octroi) et de la  Signature Card 
(Carte de Signature), mais que seule la version originale en langue anglaise fait foi. 

FOR GERMANY EMPLOYEES ONLY 

The Award(s) are offered to you by GS Inc. in accordance with the terms of the SIP which are
summarized in the Award Summary. More information about GS Inc. is available on  www.gs.com . You
are being offered Award(s) under the SIP in order to provide an additional incentive and to
encourage employee share ownership and so increase your interest in the Firm s success. Please
refer to the section entitled  Shares Available for Awards  in the SIP for information on the maximum
number of GS Inc. shares that can be offered under the SIP. The obligation to publish a prospectus
under the Prospectus Directive does not apply to the offer because of Article 4(1)(e) of that
directive.

Die Pr mien werden lhnen von der Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (,,GS Inc. ) gem   den in der
Pr mien bersicht aufgef hrten Bestimmungen des Erwerbsplans angeboten. Weitere Informationen  ber
GS Inc. finden Sie unter  www.gs.com . Die Pr mien werden lhnen im Rahmen des Erwerbsplans angeboten,
um einen zus tzlichen Anreiz darzustellen und Sie als Mitarbeiter zum Erwerb von Aktien zu
ermutigen, um so Ihren Anteil am Erfolg des Unternehmens zu vergr  ern. Informationen zur Anzahl
der im Rahmen des Plans angebotenen GS Inc.-Aktien entnehmen Sie bitte dem Abschnitt  als Pr mien
erh ltliche Aktien  im Erwerbsplan. Die Verpflichtung zur Ver ffentlichung eines Emissionsprospekts
gem   der europ ischen Prospektrichtlinie trifft auf Grund von Artikel 4(1)(e) dieser Richtlinie
nicht auf dieses Angebot zu.

FOR HONG KONG EMPLOYEES ONLY 

WARNING:

-4- 

The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. You
are advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer. If you are in doubt about any of the
contents of this document, you should obtain independent professional advice.

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and accept that you will not be permitted to transfer
awards to persons who fall outside the definition of  qualifying persons  in the Companies
Ordinance ( i.e ., a person who is not a current or former director, employee, officer, consultant of
the Firm or a person other than the offeree s wife, husband, widow, widower, child or step-child
under the age of 18 years, or as otherwise defined), even if otherwise permitted under the SIP or
any of the related documents.

FOR INDIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This website does not invite offers from the public for subscription or purchase of the
securities of any body corporate under any law for the time being in force in India. The website is
not a prospectus under the applicable laws for the time being in force in India. Goldman Sachs does
not intend to market, promote, invite offers for subscription or purchase of the securities of any
body corporate by this website. The information provided on this website is for the record only.
Any person who subscribes or purchases securities of any body corporate should consult his own
investment advisers before making any investments. Goldman Sachs shall not be liable or responsible
for any such investment decision made by any person.

FOR INDONESIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with Bahasa Indonesia
translations of the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original
English version of these documents controls.

Dengan menerima Putusan, Anda menyatakan bahwa Perusahaan telah memberikan Anda terjemahan Bahasa
Indonesia dari Ikhtisar Putusan, Perjanjian Putusan dan Perjanjian dengan Tanda Tangan, tapi versi
asli dalam Bahasa Inggris dari dokumen-dokumen ini tetap mengendalikan.

FOR ITALY EMPLOYEES ONLY 

No person resident or located in Italy other than the original recipients of this document and
any other document related to the  Award(s)  may rely on such documents or their content. The offer
of the Award(s) under the SIP (and the delivery of underlying shares) is exempted from prospectus
requirements under Italian securities legislation.

Under Italian regulations, tax payers must report in their annual tax returns any foreign financial
assets in excess of EUR 10,000. Please consult your own advisors regarding the terms and conditions
of this reporting obligation.

FOR MONACO EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting your Award(s), you expressly renounce the jurisdiction of Monaco (and, if
applicable, France and notably the application of articles 14 and 15 of the French Civil Code) in
connection with any dispute relating to your Award(s).

FOR POLAND EMPLOYEES ONLY 

The Award(s) are offered to you by GS Inc. in accordance with the terms of the SIP which are
summarized in the Award Summary. More information about GS Inc. is available on  www.gs.com . You
are being offered Award(s) under the SIP in order to provide an additional incentive and to
encourage employee share ownership and so increase your interest in the Firm s success. Please
refer to the section entitled  Shares Available for Awards  in the SIP for information on the maximum
number of GS Inc. shares that can be offered under the SIP. The obligation to publish a prospectus
under the Prospectus Directive does not apply to the offer because of Article 4(1)(e) of that
directive.

Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (,,GS Inc. ) przyznaje Pa stwu Premi  (premie) zgodnie z warunkami
Motywacyjnego Programu Akcji Pracowniczych opisanymi w Og lnych Warunkach Przyznania Premii. Wi cej
informacji na temat GS Inc. mo na uzyska  na stronie  www.gs.com.Oferowana  Pa stwu na podstawie
Motywacyjnego Programu Akcji Pracowniczych Premia ma stanowi  dodatkow 

Signature:

Print Name:

motywacj  i rozwija 
akcjonariat pracowniczy a w konsekwencji zwi kszy  Pa stwa zaanga owanie w sukces Firmy. Prosimy
zapozna  si  z dzia em zatytu owanym Akcje dost pne w ramach Premii w Motywacyjnym Programie Akcji
Pracowniczych, w celu uzyskania informacji na temat maksymalnej liczby akcji GS Inc. oferowanych na
podstawie Motywacyjnego Programu Akcji Pracowniczych. Obowi zek publikowania prospektu wynikaj cy z
Dyrektywy w Sprawie Prospektu Emisyjnego nie ma zastosowania do niniejszej oferty, ze wzgl du na
brzmienie art. 4 ust. 1 lit. e wskazanej powy ej dyrektywy.

FOR RUSSIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

None of the information contained in the documents referred to in paragraph 8 of this Signature
Card or in this Signature Card constitutes an advertisement of the Award(s) in Russia and must not
be passed on to third parties or otherwise be made publicly available in Russia. The Award(s) have
not been and will not be registered in Russia and are not intended for  placement  or  public
circulation  in Russia.

FOR SAUDI ARABIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

The stock incentive plan documents may not be distributed in the Kingdom except to such persons
as are permitted under the Offers of Securities Regulations issued by the Capital Market Authority.
The Capital Market Authority does not make any representation as to the accuracy or completeness of
the stock incentive plan documents, and expressly disclaims any liability whatsoever for any loss
arising from, or incurred in reliance upon, any part of the stock incentive plan documents.
Prospective purchasers of the securities offered hereby should conduct their own due diligence on
the accuracy of the information relating to the securities. If you do not understand the contents
of the stock incentive plan documents you should consult an authorized financial adviser.

I acknowledge that the grant of Award(s) to me by the Firm, and my acceptance of the Award(s), is conditional upon the Capital Market Authority, having received notification of the proposed offer
of  Award(s)  to me by the Firm, and not advising that the offer is not to be made or otherwise
prohibiting the offer within ten (10) business days of such notification (the  Condition ). I
agree that if the Condition is not satisfied, the Award(s) and this document will be void    ab
initio   . 

FOR SWEDEN EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and accept that any transfer provisions (including,
where applicable, escrow and other similar provisions) in the SIP or any related documents do not
apply to you.

FOR UK EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This document is approved by Goldman Sachs International ( GSI ), Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet
Street, London EC4A 2BB, which is authorized and regulated by the Financial Services Authority. The
document relates to investments and investment services of GS Inc. and other institutions,
including BNY Mellon, relating to custodial and delivery operations. In some or all respects, the
regulatory system applying to these entities, including any compensation arrangements and rules
made under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 for the protection of private customers,
will be different from that of the United Kingdom.

This document does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial situation and
particular needs of any specific person who may receive it. Recipients should seek their own
financial advice.

The Award(s) is/are subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the SIP and the Award
Agreement(s). The price of shares and the income from such shares (if any) can fluctuate and may be
affected by changes in the exchange rate for U.S. Dollars. Past performance will not necessarily be
repeated. Levels and bases of taxation may change from time to time. Investors should consult their
own tax advisers in order to understand tax consequences. GS Inc. has (and its associates,
including GSI, may have) a material interest in the shares and the investments that are the subject
of this document.

Date:

Employee ID #:

-5- 

</EX-10.46>

<EX-10.47>
 7
 y88213exv10w47.htm
 EX-10.47: FORM OF SIGNATURE CARD FOR EQUITY AWARDS (EMPLOYEES IN CHINA)

exv10w47 

Exhibit 10.47

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. 

Signature Card For      Year-End Awards (China) and the BNY Mellon Custody Account   
 and Consent to Receive Electronic Delivery  

IMPORTANT: PLEASE REVIEW, EXECUTE AND RETURN THIS FORM TO: EQUITY COMPENSATION 
(DIVISION OF HCM), 30 HUDSON STREET, 34TH FLOOR, JERSEY CITY, NJ 07302. 

YOU MUST PROPERLY EXECUTE THIS FORM TO ACKNOWLEDGE ACCEPTANCE OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF 
YOUR AWARD(S) AND RELATED MATTERS. 

1. I have received and agree to be bound by The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  SIP ) and the Award Agreement(s) applicable to me in connection with the
     Year-End Award(s) (the   Award(s) )  that I have been granted by the Firm (as defined in the
SIP). I confirm that I have accepted the Award(s) subject to the terms and conditions contained in
the SIP and the Award Agreement(s), including but not limited to, the requirement that disputes
relating to the Award(s) and the Award Agreement(s) be decided through arbitration in New York City
and be governed by New York law.

As a condition of this grant, I understand that the Award(s) (as well as any other award that the
Firm may grant to me under the SIP) is/are subject to other governing law provisions (as outlined
in this signature card (the  Signature Card ), in the current or otherwise then current Award
Summary (as defined below) or otherwise as may be required under applicable law) and, as a
condition to receiving such awards, I agree to be bound thereby. I also understand that the Firm
may grant to me other awards under the SIP that also may contain (among other terms and conditions)
arbitration and other governing law provisions and, as a condition to receiving such awards, I
agree to be bound thereby. As a condition of this grant, I agree to provide upon request an
appropriate certification regarding my U.S. tax status on  Form W-8BEN,   Form W-9,  or other
appropriate form, and I understand that failure to supply a required form may result in the
imposition of backup withholding on certain payments I receive pursuant to this grant.

I understand and acknowledge that I am agreeing to arbitrate all claims, in accordance with the
arbitration procedure set forth in the Award  Agreement(s).  The Award Agreement(s) does not include
an agreement to arbitrate claims on a collective or class basis. It is explicitly agreed that, to
the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, no arbitrator shall have the authority to consider
class or collective claims, to order consolidation or to join different claimants or grant relief
other than on an individual basis to the individual claimant involved.

Further, as a condition of this grant, if I am a person who has worked in the  United
Kingdom  at any time during the earnings period relating to any award under the SIP, as
determined by the Firm, when requested and as directed by the Firm, I will agree to a Joint
Election under s431 ITEPA 2003 of the laws of the United Kingdom for full or partial disapplication
of Chapter 2 Income Tax (Earnings and Pension) Act 2003 under the laws of the United Kingdom and
will sign and return such election in respect of all future deliveries of shares underlying the
Award(s) and any previous grants made to me under the SIP and understand that the Firm intends to
meet its delivery obligations in shares with respect to my Award(s), except as may be prohibited by
law or described in the accompanying Award Agreement(s) or supplementary materials.

If I have worked in  Switzerland  at any time during the earnings period relating to the
Award(s) granted to me as determined by the Firm, (i) I acknowledge that my Award(s) are subject to
tax in accordance with the rulings and method of calculation of taxable values to be agreed by the
Firm with the Federal and/or Zurich/Geneva cantonal/communal tax authorities or as otherwise
directed by the Firm, and (ii) I hereby agree to be bound by any rulings agreed by the Firm in
respect of any Award(s), which is expected to result in taxation at the time of delivery of shares
(or cash or other property in lieu thereof), and (iii) I undertake to declare and make a full and
accurate income tax declaration in respect of my Award(s) in accordance with the above ruling or as
directed by the Firm.

I understand and acknowledge that any transfer provisions (including, where applicable, escrow and
other similar provisions, but specifically excluding any transfer restrictions imposed on any
 Award(s)  in the Award  Agreement(s)  or the SIP) in the SIP or related documents will not apply to me
(i) to the extent that the applicability of those provisions would affect the availability of
relevant exemptions or tax favorable treatment, or (ii) otherwise in circumstances determined by
the Firm in its sole discretion.

2. I have read and understand the Firm s  Notice Periods for Recipients of Year-End Equity-Based
Awards  policy (the  Notice Policy ) available through the HR Workways    link on GSWeb or as
otherwise provided to me, pursuant to which I am required to provide certain specified advance
notice of my intent to leave employment with the Firm. I understand that in executing this form, I
will be agreeing to provide my employing entity with advance written notice of my intention to
leave employment with the Firm as follows:

In the Americas: 60 days in advance of my termination date 

In Europe, the Middle East, Africa and India: 90 days in advance of my termination date 

In Japan and Asia Ex-Japan (including Australia and excluding India): 90 days in advance
of my termination date if I am a Vice President or 

an Executive Director; 60 days in advance of my termination date in all other cases 

and that, subject to applicable law, the provisions of the Notice Policy constitute a permanent
change to my terms and conditions of employment. I agree to this change in consideration of my
continued employment with the Firm and my acceptance of the Award(s), and I agree to be bound by
the Notice Policy as in effect from time-to-time.

I understand that if under local law or my contract of employment I have a notice requirement that
is longer than those specified above, the longer notice period will apply. Also, I understand that
if my terms and conditions of employment provide for a probation period after I begin employment
with the Firm (e.g., in Hong Kong, India, Paris or Frankfurt), this Notice Policy will apply only
if notice of termination of employment is given (whether by me or by the Firm) after the probation
period has ended.

I also understand that the terms and conditions of my employment shall be permanently changed so
that, in the event that I resign from the Firm, the Firm may:

Unilaterally waive or reduce the notice period otherwise applicable to my employment, or 

Take such other action as shall have that effect. 

I acknowledge that the Firm retains its right to bring forward the end of the notice period to such
earlier date, and that I will not be entitled to any salary, wages, or benefits after such earlier
date. In addition, I understand that I will not receive pay in lieu for any period of notice that
has been waived or reduced.

I understand that unless the notice period is waived by agreement or unilaterally as set out above,
or I have exercised a statutory right to make a payment in lieu of my notice period, I will be paid
my base salary (and/or draw for commissioned employees) and will continue to receive all mandatory
benefits during the notice period.

I understand that during my notice period I may be required to remain away from the Firm s offices,
and/or be removed from any assigned duties or assigned to other suitable duties.

I understand that if I fail to give the full amount of notice as set out above, or to comply in any
respect with the Notice Policy, I will have failed to meet an obligation I have under an agreement
with the Firm, as a result of which the Firm may have certain rights and I may be subject to
certain legal and equitable rights and remedies, including, without limitation, the forfeiture of
the Award(s) and any other awards granted to me (whether before or after the Award(s)) under the
SIP. The forfeiture of such Award(s) will also apply where I fail to give the full amount of notice
by exercising any right I may have under applicable legislation to make a payment in lieu of such
notice. The Firm may hold me personally liable for any damages that it suffers as a result of the
breach. I also understand that, if I fail to comply with the Notice Policy, the Firm may be
entitled to an injunction from a court restraining me from violating it.

This agreement concerning my notice period is being made for and on behalf of my Goldman Sachs
employing entity, and implementation of the Notice Policy does not create an employment
relationship between me and The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ( GS Inc. ).

3. I have read and understand the Firm s hedging and pledging policies (including, without
limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS Shares, Equity Awards
and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and agree to be bound by them (with respect to
the Award(s) and any prior awards under the SIP), both during and following my employment with the
Firm.

4. If a custody account is required, I request that The Bank of New York Mellon ( BNY Mellon )
(successor in interest to Mellon Bank, N.A.) open a custody account for me as described in the
enclosed Custody Agreement among BNY Mellon (as successor in interest to Mellon Bank N.A.), GS
Inc., and myself. I have received and agree to be bound by the Custody Agreement (or any other such
custody agreement previously entered into by me or on my behalf), including the applicable
restrictions on transfers, pledges and withdrawals of shares of the common stock of GS Inc.
( Shares ), the provisions permitting the Firm to monitor my custody account, and the limitations
on the liability of BNY Mellon and the Firm. I also agree to open an account with any other
custodian or broker selected by the Firm, if the Firm, in its sole discretion, requires me to open
an account with such custodian or broker as a condition to delivery of Shares (or cash or other
property) underlying the Award(s).

5. If the Firm advanced or loaned me funds to pay certain taxes (including income taxes and Social
Security, or similar contributions) in connection with the Award(s) (or does so in the future), and
if I have not signed a separate loan agreement governing repayment, I authorize the Firm to
withhold from my compensation any amounts required to reimburse it for any such advance or loan to
the extent permitted by applicable law.

I understand and agree that, if I leave the Firm, I am required immediately to repay any
outstanding amount. I further understand and agree that the Firm has the right to offset, to the
extent permitted by the Award Agreement and applicable law (including Section 409A of the U.S.
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, which limits the Firm s ability to offset in the case of
United States taxpayers under certain circumstances), any outstanding amounts that I then owe the
Firm against its delivery obligations under the Award(s) or against any other amounts the Firm then
owes me. I understand that the delivery of Shares pursuant to the Award(s) is conditioned on my
satisfaction of any applicable taxes or social security contributions (collectively referred to as
 tax  or  taxes  for purposes of the SIP and all related documents) in accordance with the SIP. To
the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may require me to provide
amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations
imposed on me or the Firm in connection with the grant, vesting or delivery of the Award(s) by
requiring me to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or
otherwise), (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to me
pursuant to the Award(s) or (iii) as otherwise permitted in the Award Agreement(s). However, in no
event shall any such choice or the choice specified in paragraph 6, below, determine, or give me
any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or payment of tax obligations.

6. If I am an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the
Firm s      fiscal year), I acknowledge and agree that the Firm may, in its sole discretion,
require (to the extent permitted by applicable law) that I provide for a reserve in an amount the
Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or potential
tax consequences related to my separate employment contracts by requiring me to choose between
remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deductions or otherwise) or (ii) in the form
of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to me pursuant to the  Award(s)  (or
any other of my awards outstanding under the SIP).

7. In connection with any Award Agreement or other interest I may receive in the SIP or any Shares
that I may receive in connection with the Award(s) or any award I have previously received or may
receive, or in connection with any amendment or variation thereof or any documents listed in
paragraph 8, I hereby consent to (a) the acceptance by me of the Award(s) electronically, (b) the
giving of instructions in electronic form whether by me or the Firm, and (c) the receipt in
electronic form at my email address maintained at Goldman Sachs or via Goldman Sachs  intranet site
(or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, at such other email address as I may specify, or via
such other electronic means as the Firm and I may agree) all notices and information that the Firm
is required by law to send to me in connection therewith including, without limitation, any
document (or part thereof) constituting part of a prospectus covering securities that have been
registered under the U.S. Securities Act of 1933, the information contained in any such document
and any information required to be delivered to me under Rule 428 of the U.S. Securities Act of
1933, including, for example, the annual report to security holders or the annual report on Form
10-K of GS Inc. for its latest fiscal year, and that all prior elections that I may have made
relating to the delivery of any such document in physical form are hereby revoked and superseded. I
agree to check Goldman Sachs  intranet site (or, if I am no longer employed by the Firm, such other
electronic site as the Firm and I may agree) periodically as I deem appropriate for any new notices
or information concerning the SIP. I understand that I am not required to consent to the receipt of
such documents in electronic form in order to receive the Award(s) and that I may decline to
receive such documents in electronic form by contacting Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30
Hudson Street, 34th Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, which will provide me
with hard copies of such documents upon request. I also understand that this consent is voluntary
and may be revoked at any time on three business days  written notice.

8. I hereby acknowledge that I have received in electronic form in accordance with my consent in
paragraph 7 the following documents:

The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Summary of The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan; 

Custody Agreement with BNY Mellon; 

The 2009 Annual Report for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.; 

The annual report on Form 10-K for The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2009; 

The Award Agreement(s); and 

Summaries of the Award(s) ( Award Summary ). 

9. I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any notifications,
filings or remittances of funds that may be required in connection with the SIP or otherwise on my
behalf. Further, if I am an employee who is resident in South Africa at a relevant time, by
accepting my Award(s), I expressly authorize any appropriate representative of the Firm to make any
required notification on my behalf to the Reserve Bank of South Africa (or its authorized dealer)
in relation to my participation in the SIP and to any acquisition of Shares for no consideration
under the SIP or other similar filing that may otherwise be

required in South Africa. I acknowledge
that any such authorization is effective from the date of acceptance of my Award(s) until such time
as I expressly revoke the authorization by written notice to any appropriate representative of the
Firm. I understand that this authorization does not create any obligation on the Firm to deal with
any such notifications, filings or remittances of funds that I may be required to make in
connection with the SIP and I accept full responsibility in this regard.

10. The granting of the Award(s), the delivery of the underlying Shares (or cash or other property)
and any subsequent dividends or dividend equivalent payments, and the receipt of any proceeds in
connection with the Award(s) may result in legal or regulatory requirements in some jurisdictions.
I understand and agree that it is my responsibility to ensure that I comply with any legal or
regulatory requirements in respect of the Award(s).

11. I confirm that I have filed all tax returns that I am required to file and paid all taxes I am
required to pay with respect to awards previously granted to me by the Firm, and I agree, with
respect to both the Award(s) as well as awards previously granted to me by the Firm, to file all
tax returns I am required to file and to pay all taxes I am required to pay.

Consent to Data Collection, Processing and Transfers: 

I understand and agree that in connection with the SIP and any other Firm benefit plan (the  Programs ), to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, the Firm may
collect and process various data that is personal to me, including my name, address, work location,
hire date, Social Security or Social Insurance or taxpayer identification number (required for tax
purposes), type and amount of SIP or other benefit plan award, citizenship or residency (required
for tax purposes) and other similar information reasonably necessary for the administration of such
Programs (collectively referred to as  Information ) and provide such Information to its affiliates
and BNY Mellon (and its affiliates) or any other service provider, whether in the United States or
elsewhere, as is reasonably necessary for the administration of the Programs and under the laws of
these jurisdictions. I understand that, in certain circumstances, foreign courts, law enforcement
agencies or regulatory agencies may be entitled to access the Information. I understand that,
unless I explicitly authorize otherwise, the Firm, its affiliates and its service providers
(through their respective employees in charge of the relevant electronic and manual processing)
will use this Information only for purposes of administering the Programs. I understand that, in
the United States and in other countries to which such Information may be transferred for the
administration of the Programs, the level of data protection is not equivalent to data protection
standards in the member states of the European Union, Canada or certain Canadian provinces. I
understand that, upon request, to Equity Compensation (division of HCM), 30 Hudson Street, 34th
Floor, Jersey City, NJ 07302, telephone (212) 357-1444, to the extent required under the laws of
the applicable jurisdiction, I may have access to and obtain communication of the Information and
may exercise any of my rights in respect of such Information, including objecting to the processing
of the Information and requesting that the Information be corrected (if wrong), completed or
clarified (if incomplete or equivocal), or erased (if cannot legally be collected or kept). Upon
request, to the extent required under the laws of the applicable jurisdiction, Equity Compensation
(division of HCM) will also provide me, free of charge, with a list of all the service providers
used in connection with the Programs at the time of request. I understand that, if I refuse to
authorize the use and transfer of the Information consistent with the above, I may not benefit from
the Programs. I authorize the use and transfer of the Information consistent with the above for the
period of administration of the Programs. In particular, I authorize (within the limits described
above): (i) the data processing by the Firm (which means GS Inc. and its subsidiaries and
affiliates); (ii) the data processing by BNY Mellon and its affiliates; (iii) the data processing
by the Firm s other service providers; and (iv) the data transfer to the United States and other
countries. I further acknowledge that the Information may be retained by such persons beyond the
period of administration of the Programs to the extent permitted under the laws of the applicable
jurisdiction and I so authorize. 

NON-COMPETITION AND NON-SOLICITATION RESTRICTIONS FOR EMPLOYEES PROVIDING SERVICES IN
AUSTRALIA, HONG KONG, INDIA, INDONESIA, JAPAN, KOREA, MALAYSIA, PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF CHINA,
SINGAPORE AND TAIWAN 

In addition to and without limiting any provisions in the SIP or the applicable Award
Agreement(s) (including without limitation the Award forfeiture, termination or repayment
provisions), I hereby agree to and acknowledge the following:

(a) If I am providing services to the Firm in Asia, in view of my importance to the Firm and BGH,
I hereby agree that the Firm or BGH would likely suffer significant harm from me competing with the
Firm or BGH for some period of time after my employment ends. Accordingly, I hereby agree that I
will not, without the written consent of the Firm or BGH, during the Restricted Period in the
Geographic Area:

(i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation
interest in, any Covered Competitive Enterprise; or

-2- 

(ii) associate (including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner,
director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Covered Competitive Enterprise and in connection
with such association engage in, or directly or indirectly manage or supervise personnel engaged
in, any activity:

A. which is similar or substantially related to any activity in which I was engaged, in whole
or in part, at the Firm,

B. for which I had direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility at the Firm, or

C. which calls for the application of the same or similar specialized knowledge or skills as
those utilized by me in my activities with the Firm,

at any time during the one-year period immediately prior to the end of the Employment Period, and,
in any such case, irrespective of the purpose of the activity or whether the activity is or was in
furtherance of advisory, agency, proprietary or fiduciary business of either the Firm or BGH or the
Covered Competitive Enterprise.

(By way of example only, this provision precludes an  advisory  investment banker from joining a
leveraged-buyout firm, a research analyst from becoming a proprietary trader or joining a hedge
fund, or an information systems professional from joining a management or other consulting firm and
providing information technology consulting services or advice to any Covered Competitive
Enterprise, in each case without the written consent of the Firm or BGH.)

To the extent that separate financial consideration may be necessary in order to enforce the
restrictive covenant set forth in Section (a) above, the Firm will pay me a monthly payment
equivalent to 25% of my last monthly base salary, unless local regulation provides otherwise, in
which case local regulation shall apply, while this restriction is in effect during any period when
I am not employed by the Firm, payable in accordance with the Firm s payroll practices. Any such
payment shall begin within the first week after termination of employment.

(b) I hereby agree that during the Restricted Period, I will not, in any manner, directly or
indirectly, in Asia (1) Solicit a Covered Client to transact business with a Covered Competitive
Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the Firm or BGH, or (2) interfere
with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship between the Firm or BGH
and a Covered Client.

(c) I hereby agree that during the Restricted Period, I will not, in any manner, directly or
indirectly in Asia:

(i) Solicit any Covered Personnel to resign from the Firm or BGH or to apply for or accept
employment, consultancy, partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive
Enterprise;

(ii) hire or participate in the hiring of any Covered Personnel (whether as an employee,
consultant, or otherwise) by a Covered Competitive Enterprise;

(iii) participate in the decision to offer Covered Personnel employment, consultancy,
admission into partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive Enterprise; or

(iv) participate in the identification of Covered Personnel for potential hiring or admission
into partnership, membership or similar status with a Covered Competitive Enterprise.

I acknowledge that I will have violated this provision if, during the Restricted Period, any
Covered Personnel are Solicited, hired, made a consultant or are accepted into partnership,
membership or similar status:

(i) by any Covered Competitive Enterprise which I form, which bears my name, or in which I am
a partner, a member or have similar status or in which I possess or control a greater than de
minimis equity ownership, voting or profit participation; or

(ii) by any Covered Competitive Enterprise, and I have, or are intended to have, direct or
indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Covered Personnel.

To the extent that separate financial consideration may be necessary in order to enforce the
restrictive covenants set forth in Sections (b) and (c) above, the Firm will pay me a monthly
payment equivalent to 25% of my last monthly base salary, unless local regulation provides
otherwise, in which case local regulation shall apply, while these restrictions are in effect
during any period when I am not employed by the Firm, payable in accordance with the Firm s payroll
practices. Any such payment shall begin within the first week after termination of employment.

(d) I acknowledge and agree that these Restrictions form part of my terms and conditions of
employment. I also acknowledge and agree that these Restrictions supersede any restrictions that I
may be subject to under the non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions for employees
providing services in the People s Republic of China as set out in (a) to (n) of the Signature Card
For 2009 Year-End Awards (China) and the BNY Mellon Custody Account and Consent to Receive
Electronic Delivery.

(e) Prior to accepting employment with any other person or entity during the Restricted Period, I
will provide any prospective employer with written notice of

the Restrictions with a copy containing the prospective employer s name and contact information delivered simultaneously to the
Firm.

(f) I understand that the Restrictions may limit my ability to earn a livelihood in a business
similar to the business of the Firm or BGH. I acknowledge that a violation on my part of any of
the Restrictions would cause immeasurable and irreparable damage to the Firm or BGH. Accordingly,
I agree that the Firm and/or BGH will be entitled to injunctive relief in any court of competent
jurisdiction for any actual or threatened violation of any of the Restrictions in addition to any
other remedies it or they may have. In the event that I violate any of the Restrictions, I
acknowledge that the Restricted Period shall automatically be extended by the period of time that I
was in violation of the said Restriction(s). I also acknowledge that a violation of any of the
Restrictions would constitute my failure to meet an obligation I have under an agreement between me
and the Firm that was entered into in connection with my employment with the Firm, and may
constitute  Cause  for purposes of any equity-based awards granted to me by the Firm and/or BGH and
will result in my forfeiting such equity-based awards.

(g) If any provision (or part of a provision) of the Restrictions is held by a court of competent
jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable (whether in whole or in part), such provision
will be deemed modified or severed to the extent, but only to the extent, of such invalidity,
illegality or unenforceability and the remaining such provisions will not be affected thereby;
provided, however, that if any of the Restrictions are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to
be invalid, illegal or unenforceable because it exceeds the maximum time period such court
determines is acceptable to permit such provision to be enforceable, such Restriction will be
deemed to be modified to the minimum extent necessary to modify such time period in order to make
such provision enforceable hereunder.

(h) The promises contained in the Restrictions are provided by me for the benefit of each Firm
entity and BGH and I acknowledge and agree that each such entity may independently enforce the
Restrictions against me. Any benefit that I give or am deemed to have given by virtue of the
Restrictions is received jointly and severally by the Firm (including, for the avoidance of doubt,
any entity of the Firm to which I provide services from time to time) or BGH.

(i) For the purposes of the Restrictions, GS Inc. enters into the SIP and Award Agreement(s)
applicable to me in connection with the Award(s) in its own capacity and as agent for each other
Firm entity and BGH. The consideration for the promises in these Restrictions is given to me by
GS, Inc. on its own behalf and on behalf of each other Firm entity (including, for the avoidance of
doubt, any entity of the Firm to which I provide services from time to time) and BGH.

(j) I acknowledge that the Restrictions set out in this clause are reasonable and necessary for
the protection of the legitimate interests of the Firm and BGH, and that, having regard to those
interests, such restrictions do not impose an unreasonable burden on me.

(k) The Restrictions shall remain in full force and effect and survive the termination of my
employment for any reason whatsoever.

(l) If I am a Managing Director subject to a Managing Director Agreement, the Restrictions shall
not apply to me.

(m) If I am a Private Wealth Management employee subject to an Employee Agreement Regarding
Confidential and Proprietary Information and Materials and Non-Solicitation, I will not be subject
to the restrictions contained in clauses (b) and (c) of the Restrictions.

(n) For the purposes of the Restrictions only, the following terms have the following meanings:

Asia    means Australia, the PRC, Hong Kong SAR, Taiwan, Japan, Korea, India, Singapore,
Indonesia, Malaysia, Thailand, Philippines, Brunei and Vietnam.

BGH    means Beijing Gao Hua Securities Company Limited, its subsidiaries and affiliates, and
its respective successors.

Covered Client    means any client or prospective client of the Firm or BGH (i) to whom I
provided services in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period, or (ii) for whom I
transacted business in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period, or (iii) whose
identity became known to me in connection with my relationship with or employment by the Firm or
BGH in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period and with respect to whom I had
access to confidential information.

Covered Competitive Enterprise    means a business enterprise that (i) engages in any activity,
or (ii) owns or controls a significant interest in any entity that engages in any activity that, in
either case, competes anywhere with any activity in which the Firm or BGH is engaged. The
activities covered by the previous sentence include, without limitation, financial services such as
investment banking, public or private finance, lending, financial advisory services, private
investing (for anyone other than me and members of my family), merchant banking, asset or hedge
fund management, insurance or reinsurance underwriting or brokerage, property management, or
securities, futures, commodities, energy, derivatives or currency brokerage, sales, lending,
custody, clearance, settlement or trading.

Covered Extended Absence    means my absence from active employment for at least 180 days in
any 12-month period as a result of my incapacity due to mental or physical illness, as determined
by the Firm.

-3- 

"  Covered Personnel    means any Firm or BGH employee, consultant or Managing Director with whom
I had material contact or dealings within the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period
or in relation to whom I had access to confidential information.

Employment Period    means the period from the commencement of my employment with, or transfer,
assignment or secondment to the Firm and ending with the date of termination of my employment with,
or transfer, assignment or secondment to the Firm. For the purposes of the definition of
 Employment Period  in these Restrictions, the Employment Period does not terminate when I commence
employment with, or am transferred, assigned or seconded to, another member of the Firm in Asia
(excluding, for this purpose only, Goldman Sachs Gao Hua Securities Company Limited).

Firm    means GS Inc., its subsidiaries and affiliates and its and their respective successors.

Geographic Area    means (i) the PRC, including Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan; and/or (ii) any
other country in Asia in relation to which I have substantial product and/or geographical market
responsibilities; and/or (iii) any other country in Asia in relation to which I have substantial
employee managerial responsibilities in the 12 months prior to the end of the Employment Period;
and/or (iv) any other jurisdiction in Asia in relation to which I provide services in the 12 months
prior to the end of the Employment Period.

Notice Dat   e   means the date on which either I or the Firm gives written notice of (i) the
conclusion of my transfer, assignment or secondment to any member of the Firm, or (ii) the
termination of my employment with any member of the Firm, or if the termination is for cause or
Covered Extended Absence, the date on which such termination occurs, or (iii) if I repudiate my
employment contract, any earlier date as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. For the
purposes of the definition of  Notice Date  in these Restrictions, the Notice Date does not
commence where I am transferring to another Firm entity in Asia (excluding, for this purpose only,
Goldman Sachs Gao Hua Securities Company Limited).

"  PRC    means the People s Republic of China.

Restricted Period    means (i) during the Employment Period; and (ii) for the period of notice
in my employment contract or the period stated in paragraph 2 of the Signature Card commencing from
the Notice Date (whichever is longer), irrespective of whether the termination is for cause or
Covered Extended Absence or whether I receive a payment in lieu of all or part of that notice
period or whether all or part of the notice period is waived by the Firm or whether I make a
payment in lieu of all or part of that notice period pursuant to a statutory entitlement or with
the Firm s agreement.

Restrictions    means the non-competition and non-solicitation restrictions for employees
providing services in the PRC as set out in (a) to (o) of this section of the Signature Card.

Solicit    means any direct or indirect communication of any kind whatsoever, regardless of by
whom initiated, inviting, advising, encouraging or requesting any person or entity, in any manner,
to take or refrain from taking any action.

(o) The Restrictions shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the
jurisdiction in which my employment relationship is governed.

Other Legal Notices: 

FOR ARGENTINA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This is a private offer. It is not subject to the supervision of the Comision Nacional de
Valores (CNV) or any other governmental authority in Argentina.

FOR AUSTRALIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

GS Inc. undertakes that it will, at any time until the Delivery Date, within a reasonable
period of you so requesting, provide you with a copy of the rules of the SIP and/or the Australian
dollar equivalent of the market price of GS Inc. s shares. This information may be obtained by
sending a written request to Head of Securities Compliance   Goldman Sachs   Partners Australia
Pty Ltd.

Any advice given by GS Inc. in connection with the SIP is general advice only. Nothing in the
documentation is to be taken to constitute a recommendation or statement of opinion that is
intended to influence a person or persons in making a decision to accept an Award and you should
consider obtaining your own financial product and/or legal advice from an independent person. The
documentation does not take into account the objectives, financial situation or needs of any
particular person. Before acting on the information contained in the documentation, or making a
decision to participate, you should seek professional advice as to whether participation is
appropriate in light of your personal circumstances.

FOR BRAZIL EMPLOYEES ONLY 

Please note that the offer of an award under the SIP does not constitute a public offer in
Brazil, and therefore it is not subject to registration with the Brazilian authorities.

According to Brazilian regulations, individuals resident in Brazil must inform the Central Bank of
Brazil yearly the amounts of any nature, the assets and rights (including cash and other deposits)
held outside of the Brazilian territory. Please consult your own legal counsel on the terms and
conditions for presentation of such information.

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with Portuguese
translations of the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original
English version of these documents controls. (Ao aceitar esta outorga, Voc  reconhece que a Empresa
Ihe disponibilizou a vers o em portugu s do Award Summary, do Award Agreement e do Signature Card;
por m a vers o original em ingl s desses documentos prevalecer .)

FOR CANADA EMPLOYEES IN QUEBEC ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and agree that you and the Firm expressly wish that
all documents related to the Award(s) (including, without limitation, the SIP, this Signature Card,
the Award Agreement and the Award Summary) be in English only.

En acceptant le ou les octrois, vous reconnaissez et acceptez que les parties souhaitent
express ment que tous les documents se rapportant   l octroi ou aux octrois (incluant, sans limit 
la g n ralit  de ce qui pr c de, le document du r gime, cette carte de signature, la convention
d octroi et le sommaire d octroi) soient en anglais seulement.

FOR THE PEOPLE S REPUBLIC OF CHINA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

All documentation in relation to the Award(s) is intended for your personal use and in your
capacity as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) and is being given to you solely for the
purpose of providing you with information concerning the Award(s) which the Firm may grant to you
as an employee of the Firm (and/or its affiliate) in accordance with the terms of the SIP, this
documentation and the applicable Award Agreement(s). The grant of the Award(s) has not been and
will not be registered with the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of
China pursuant to relevant securities laws and regulations, and the Award(s) may not be offered or
sold within the mainland of the People s Republic of China by means of any of the documentation in
relation to the Award(s) through a public offering or in circumstances which require a registration
or approval of the China Securities Regulatory Commission of the People s Republic of China in
accordance with the relevant securities laws and regulations.

FOR FRANCE EMPLOYEES ONLY 

Disclaimer: The current award is not covered by any prospectus which is the subject of the
AMF s approval. Grantees can only receive this award for their own account ( compte propre ) in the
conditions laid down by articles  D. 411-1,  D. 411-2, D.411-3, D.411-4,  D. 734-1,   D. 744-1,   D. 754-1 
and  D. 764-1  of the French Monetary and Financial Code. Any direct or indirect dissemination into
the public of the financial instruments acquired can only take place within the conditions of
articles L. 411-1, L. 411-2, L. 412-1 and L. 621-8 -to L. 621-8-3 of the French Monetary and
Financial Code.

By accepting this award, you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with French translations of
the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original English version of
these documents control.

Avertissement: La pr sente attribution ne donne pas lieu   un prospectus soumis au visa de
l Autorit  des marches financiers. Les personnes qui y participent ne peuvent le faire que pour
compte propre dans les conditions fix es par les articles D. 411-1, D. 411-2, D.411-3, D.411-4,  D.
734-1,   D. 744-1,  D. 754-1 et D. 764-1 du Code monetaire et financier. La diffusion, directe ou
indirecte, dans le public des instruments financiers ainsi acquis, ne peut  tre r alis e que dans
les conditions pr vues aux articles  L. 411-1,  L. 411-2 L. 412-1 et L. 621-8   L. 621-8-3 du Code
mon taire et financier.

En acceptant cet octroi, vous reconnaissez que la Soci t  vous   transmis une version fran ais de
l  Award Summary  (R sum  de l Octroi), l  Award Agreement  (Contrat d Octroi) et de la  Signature Card 
(Carte de Signature), mais que seule la version originale en langue anglaise fait foi. 

FOR GERMANY EMPLOYEES ONLY 

The Award(s) are offered to you by GS Inc. in accordance with the terms of the SIP which are
summarized in the Award Summary. More information about GS Inc. is available on  www.gs.com . You
are being offered Award(s) under the SIP in order to provide an additional incentive and to
encourage employee share ownership and so increase your interest in the Firm s success. Please
refer to the section entitled  Shares Available for Awards  in the SIP for information on the maximum
number of GS Inc. shares that can be offered under the SIP. The obligation to publish a prospectus
under the Prospectus Directive does not apply to the offer because of Article 4(1)(e) of that
directive.

-4- 

Die Pr mien werden lhnen von der Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (,,GS Inc. ) gem   den in der
Pr mien bersicht aufgef hrten Bestimmungen des Erwerbsplans angeboten. Weitere Informationen  ber
GS Inc. finden Sie unter  www.gs.com . Die Pr mien werden lhnen im Rahmen des Erwerbsplans angeboten,
um einen zus tzlichen Anreiz darzustellen und Sie als Mitarbeiter zum Erwerb von Aktien zu
ermutigen, um so Ihren Anteil am Erfolg des Unternehmens zu vergr  ern. Informationen zur Anzahl
der im Rahmen des Plans angebotenen GS Inc.-Aktien entnehmen Sie bitte dem Abschnitt  als Pr mien
erh ltliche Aktien  im Erwerbsplan. Die Verpflichtung zur Ver ffentlichung eines Emissionsprospekts
gem   der europ ischen Prospektrichtlinie trifft auf Grund von Artikel 4(1)(e) dieser Richtlinie
nicht auf dieses Angebot zu.

FOR HONG KONG EMPLOYEES ONLY 

WARNING:

The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong. You
are advised to exercise caution in relation to the offer. If you are in doubt about any of the
contents of this document, you should obtain independent professional advice.

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and accept that you will not be permitted to transfer
awards to persons who fall outside the definition of  qualifying persons  in the Companies
Ordinance ( i.e ., a person who is not a current or former director, employee, officer, consultant of
the Firm or a person other than the offeree s wife, husband, widow, widower, child or step-child
under the age of 18 years, or as otherwise defined), even if otherwise permitted under the SIP or
any of the related documents.

FOR INDIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This website does not invite offers from the public for subscription or purchase of the
securities of any body corporate under any law for the time being in force in India. The website is
not a prospectus under the applicable laws for the time being in force in India. Goldman Sachs does
not intend to market, promote, invite offers for subscription or purchase of the securities of any
body corporate by this website. The information provided on this website is for the record only.
Any person who subscribes or purchases securities of any body corporate should consult his own
investment advisers before making any investments. Goldman Sachs shall not be liable or responsible
for any such investment decision made by any person.

FOR INDONESIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge that the Firm has provided you with Bahasa Indonesia
translations of the Award Summary, Award Agreement and Signature Card, but that the original
English version of these documents controls.

Dengan menerima Putusan, Anda menyatakan bahwa Perusahaan telah memberikan Anda terjemahan Bahasa
Indonesia dari Ikhtisar Putusan, Perjanjian Putusan dan Perjanjian dengan Tanda Tangan, tapi versi
asli dalam Bahasa Inggris dari dokumen-dokumen ini tetap mengendalikan.

FOR ITALY EMPLOYEES ONLY 

No person resident or located in Italy other than the original recipients of this document and
any other document related to the Award(s) may rely on such documents or their content. The offer
of the Award(s) under the SIP (and the delivery of underlying shares) is exempted from prospectus
requirements under Italian securities legislation.

Under Italian regulations, tax payers must report in their annual tax returns any foreign financial
assets in excess of EUR 10,000. Please consult your own advisors regarding the terms and conditions
of this reporting obligation.

FOR MONACO EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting your Award(s), you expressly renounce the jurisdiction of Monaco (and, if
applicable, France and notably the application of articles 14 and 15 of the French Civil Code) in
connection with any dispute relating to your Award(s).

FOR POLAND EMPLOYEES ONLY 

The Award(s) are offered to you by GS Inc. in accordance with the terms of the SIP which are
summarized in the Award Summary. More information about GS Inc. is available on  www.gs.com . You
are being offered Award(s) under the SIP in order to provide an additional incentive and to
encourage employee share ownership and so increase your interest in the Firm s success. Please
refer to

Signature:

Print Name:

the section entitled  Shares Available for Awards  in the SIP for information on the maximum
number of GS Inc. shares that can be offered under the SIP. The obligation to publish a prospectus
under the Prospectus Directive does not apply to the offer because of Article 4(1)(e) of that
directive.

Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (,,GS Inc. ) przyznaje Pa stwu Premi  (premie) zgodnie z warunkami
Motywacyjnego Programu Akcji Pracowniczych opisanymi w Og lnych Warunkach Przyznania Premii. Wi cej
informacji na temat GS Inc. mo na uzyska  na stronie  www.gs.com.Oferowana  Pa stwu na podstawie
Motywacyjnego Programu Akcji Pracowniczych Premia ma stanowi  dodatkow  motywacj  i rozwija 
akcjonariat pracowniczy a w konsekwencji zwi kszy  Pa stwa zaanga owanie w sukces Firmy. Prosimy
zapozna  si  z dzia em zatytu owanym Akcje dost pne w ramach Premii w Motywacyjnym Programie Akcji
Pracowniczych, w celu uzyskania informacji na temat maksymalnej liczby akcji GS Inc. oferowanych na
podstawie Motywacyjnego Programu Akcji Pracowniczych. Obowi zek publikowania prospektu wynikaj cy z
Dyrektywy w Sprawie Prospektu Emisyjnego nie ma zastosowania do niniejszej oferty, ze wzgl du na
brzmienie art. 4 ust. 1 lit. e wskazanej powy ej dyrektywy.

FOR RUSSIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

None of the information contained in the documents referred to in paragraph 8 of this Signature
Card or in this Signature Card constitutes an advertisement of the Award(s) in Russia and must not
be passed on to third parties or otherwise be made publicly available in Russia. The Award(s) have
not been and will not be registered in Russia and are not intended for  placement  or  public
circulation  in Russia.

FOR SAUDI ARABIA EMPLOYEES ONLY 

The stock incentive plan documents may not be distributed in the Kingdom except to such persons
as are permitted under the Offers of Securities Regulations issued by the Capital Market Authority.
The Capital Market Authority does not make any representation as to the accuracy or completeness of
the stock incentive plan documents, and expressly disclaims any liability whatsoever for any loss
arising from, or incurred in reliance upon, any part of the stock incentive plan documents.
Prospective purchasers of the securities offered hereby should conduct their own due diligence on
the accuracy of the information relating to the securities. If you do not understand the contents
of the stock incentive plan documents you should consult an authorized financial adviser.

I acknowledge that the grant of Award(s) to me by the Firm, and my acceptance of the Award(s), is conditional upon the Capital Market Authority, having received notification of the proposed offer
of  Award(s)  to me by the Firm, and not advising that the offer is not to be made or otherwise
prohibiting the offer within ten (10) business days of such notification (the  Condition ). I
agree that if the Condition is not satisfied, the Award(s) and this document will be void    ab
initio   . 

FOR SWEDEN EMPLOYEES ONLY 

By accepting the Award(s), you acknowledge and accept that any transfer provisions (including,
where applicable, escrow and other similar provisions) in the SIP or any related documents do not
apply to you.

FOR UK EMPLOYEES ONLY 

This document is approved by Goldman Sachs International ( GSI ), Peterborough Court, 133 Fleet
Street, London EC4A 2BB, which is authorized and regulated by the Financial Services Authority. The
document relates to investments and investment services of GS Inc. and other institutions,
including BNY Mellon, relating to custodial and delivery operations. In some or all respects, the
regulatory system applying to these entities, including any compensation arrangements and rules
made under the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 for the protection of private customers,
will be different from that of the United Kingdom.

This document does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial situation and
particular needs of any specific person who may receive it. Recipients should seek their own
financial advice.

The Award(s) is/are subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the SIP and the Award
Agreement(s). The price of shares and the income from such shares (if any) can fluctuate and may be
affected by changes in the exchange rate for U.S. Dollars. Past performance will not necessarily be
repeated. Levels and bases of taxation may change from time to time. Investors should consult their
own tax advisers in order to understand tax consequences. GS Inc. has (and its associates,
including GSI, may have) a material interest in the shares and the investments that are the subject
of this document.

Date:

Employee ID #:

-5- 

</EX-10.47>

<EX-10.48>
 8
 y88213exv10w48.htm
 EX-10.48: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (NOT FULLY VESTED)

exv10w48 

Exhibit 10.48

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
     YEAR-END RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the      Year-End award (this
 Award ) of RSUs ( Year-End RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of Year-End RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be
delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common
Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc. In
addition, some or all of any Shares delivered in respect of your Year-End RSUs will be subject to
transfer restrictions following the Delivery Date as described in Paragraph 3(b)(iv) below.
  This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it to the
address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by
the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set
forth in Paragraph 12. By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in Paragraph  
 3(b) 
  if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of Year-End
RSUs specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares). When a Year-End RSU becomes Vested, it means only that your continued active
Employment is not required in order to receive delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding
Year-End RSUs that are or become Vested. However, all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested Year-End RSUs, and failure to meet such terms and
conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result of which, no Shares underlying
such Vested Year-End RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to the number or percentage of your Year-End RSUs shall be
the date specified next to such number or percentage of Year-End RSUs on your Award Statement. In
accordance with Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-3(d), the Firm may accelerate delivery
to a date that is up to 30 days before the Delivery Date specified on the Award Statement;
provided, however, that in no event shall you be permitted to designate, directly or indirectly,
the taxable year of the delivery.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15
and 16, in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than
30 Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of
Shares is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then
Outstanding Year-End RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred
(which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry
credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of
the Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all
or any portion of your Year-End RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other awards
under the Plan or other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of
Shares shall include such deliveries of cash, other securities, other awards under the Plan or
other property.

(iv) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv) and Paragraphs 3(c), 7, and 9(g), the
following Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End RSUs shall not be permitted to be
sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated, fractionalized, hedged or otherwise
disposed of (including through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or
involuntarily by you (such restrictions collectively referred to herein as the  Transfer
Restrictions ):

(1) If the withholding rate applicable to the delivery of Shares on a Delivery
Date (or any other date delivery of Shares is called for hereunder) is at least 50%,
then all the Shares delivered to you (after application of the withholding) in
respect of your Year-End RSUs on such date will be subject to the Transfer
Restrictions until the date specified in your Award Statement as the  Transferability
Date  (the  Transferability Date ).

(2) If the withholding rate applicable to the delivery of Shares on a Delivery
Date (or any other date delivery of Shares is called for hereunder) is less than 50%,
then 50% of the Shares scheduled to be delivered to you (prior to application of any
withholding) on such date will be subject to the Transfer Restrictions until the
Transferability Date and the remaining Shares delivered to you (after application of
any withholding) on such date will not be subject to the Transfer Restrictions.
Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares.

Shares that are subject to Transfer Restrictions are referred to in this Award Agreement as  Shares
at Risk.  Any purported sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation,
fractionalization, hedge or other disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be
void. If and to the extent your Shares at Risk are certificated, the Certificates representing the
Shares at Risk are subject to the restrictions in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv), and GS Inc. shall advise
its transfer agent to place a stop order against your Shares at Risk. Within 30 Business Days
after the applicable Transferability Date (or any other date described herein on which

-2- 

the Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps as
may be necessary to remove the Transfer Restrictions.

(v) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares (including Shares at Risk) may be
made initially into an escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the
Firm and may be held in that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such
documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee has determined that any other
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been
satisfied. By accepting your Year-End RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate
or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such
terms and conditions (which may include, without limitation, your (or your estate or beneficiary)
executing any documents related to, and your (or your estate or beneficiary) paying for any costs
associated with, such account) as the Firm may deem necessary or appropriate. Any such escrow
arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall
have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on
such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its
sole discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date and/or the Transferability Date, the Shares
underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your
estate and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply as soon as practicable after the date of
death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the
Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to
specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Year-End RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares; Termination of Shares at
Risk .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall terminate, such
Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 7, and 9(g),
if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively employed with
the Firm, any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Transferability Date as
provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs (whether or not Vested) immediately
shall terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered
in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive

-3- 

Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or
participate in the identification of, Selected Firm Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an
employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or
accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1) by a Competitive Enterprise that you
form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member or have similar status, or in which
you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity ownership, voting or profit participation
or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or are intended to have, direct or indirect
managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm or this Award, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice
period requirement applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders 
agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding Year-End RSUs.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (A) any Firm employee or
consultant (1) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (2) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (B) any Managing Director of the Firm.

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Shares at Risk immediately shall terminate and such Shares at Risk
shall be cancelled (and shall be subject to repayment in a manner similar to the provisions
described in Paragraph 5) if:

(i) any event constituting Cause has occurred;

(ii) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm or this Award, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice
period requirement applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders 
agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(iii) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement; or

(iv) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or

-4- 

other property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect
of any Shares at Risk.

(d) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any
amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an
agreement referred to in Paragraphs 4(b)(v) and 4(c)(ii), regardless of whether such obligation
arises under a written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting
Cause referred to in Paragraphs 4(b)(ii) and 4(c)(i).

(e) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision in
Paragraphs 4(b) or 4(c), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee determines that,
during the Firm s      fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or marketing of any product
or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the purchase or sale of
any security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the risk to the
Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly analyzed
such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result
of such action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be
expected to be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial
system, your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs awarded as part of this Award (whether or not
Vested) immediately shall terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares
shall be delivered in respect thereof (and any Shares, Dividend Equivalents, dividends on Shares at
Risk or other amounts paid or delivered to you in respect of this Award shall be subject to
repayment in accordance with, or in a manner similar to the provisions described in, Paragraph 5)
and any Shares at Risk shall be cancelled.

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which require Grantees to
repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all terms and
conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall apply to
this Award.

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement, Downsizing and Approved Termination for Program Analysts. 

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined below), the condition set
forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but
that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of
which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply (including any applicable Transfer Restrictions).
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or otherwise,  Retirement  means termination
of your Employment (other than for Cause) on or after the Date of Grant at a time when (i) (A) the
sum of your age plus years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion) equals or exceeds 60 and (B) you have completed at least 10 years of service with the
Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) or, if earlier, (ii) (A) you have
attained age 50 and (B) you have completed at least five years of service with the Firm (as
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion). Any termination of Employment by reason of
Extended Absence or Retirement shall not affect any applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any
Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Transferability Date as provided in
Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(e), your rights in respect
of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) immediately
shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such
Year-End RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit
participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity
(including, but not limited to, association as an officer,

-5- 

employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its discretion, this
Paragraph 6(b) will not apply if your termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or
Retirement is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for
Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any
associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of
Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination 
or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of
Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End RSUs shall
become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply (including
any applicable Transfer Restrictions). Whether or not your Employment is terminated solely by
reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined by the Firm in its sole discretion. No termination of
Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination 
or the like or a termination for good reason, will be solely by reason of a  downsizing.  Your
termination of Employment by reason of  downsizing  shall not affect any applicable Transfer
Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Transferability Date
as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you are classified by the
Firm as a  program analyst,  and your Employment is terminated without Cause solely by reason of an
 approved termination  with respect to your participation in the program prior to any Vesting Date
specified on your Award Statement, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with
respect to any Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but had not yet become Vested immediately prior
to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested),
but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply (including any applicable
Transfer Restrictions). Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, for purposes of this
Paragraph 6(d), an  approved termination  shall mean a termination of Employment from the analyst
program where you: (i) successfully complete the analyst program (as determined by the Firm in its
sole discretion), which shall include, but not be limited to, remaining Employed by the Firm
through the analyst program completion date specified by the Firm and (ii) terminate Employment
with the Firm immediately after you complete the analyst program, without any  stay-on  or other
agreement or understanding to continue Employment with the Firm. If you agree to stay with the
Firm as an employee after your analyst program ends and then later terminate Employment, you will
not have an  approved termination.  An  approved termination  shall not affect any applicable
Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the
Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraph 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months
thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for
Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs, whether or not Vested,
shall be delivered and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights; Dividends . Each Year-End RSU shall include a Dividend
Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs, at or after
the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the
record date for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an
amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made
in respect of the Share underlying such Outstanding Year-End RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend
Equivalent Right shall be made only with respect to Year-

-6- 

End RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be
subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the Plan. You shall be entitled to receive on a
current basis any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of your Shares at Risk, or, if
the Shares at Risk are held in escrow, the Firm will direct the transfer/paying agent to distribute
the dividends to you in respect of your Shares at Risk.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
     fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with your Year-End RSU Award, including, without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

-7- 

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(e), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization, or any agency or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or Shares
at Risk would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be
waived with respect to any Year-End RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a result
of which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested) and, in the case of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and
9(g)(ii), any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply, and, at the sole discretion of the Firm,
you shall receive either a lump sum cash payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying,
your then Outstanding Vested Year-End RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the Committee
has received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment while you
continue to hold Outstanding Vested Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk, you may be required to
certify, from time to time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement. You understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of
any changes to your address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are
responsible for obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive
certification materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by
the deadline specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your
Outstanding Year-End RSUs and Shares at Risk, as applicable, in accordance with Paragraphs 4(b)(iv)
and 4(c)(iii).

10.  Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares or to remove the Transfer Restrictions under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4
of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding
amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax
equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY

-8- 

REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM
BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD
AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT TO THE TERMS MORE
FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 13 or
as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in
Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in
violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The
Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End RSUs may
transfer some or all of their Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk (which shall continue to be
subject to Transfer Restrictions until the Transferability Date) through a gift for no
consideration to any immediate family member (as determined pursuant to the procedures) or a trust
in which the recipient and/or the recipient s immediate family members in the aggregate have 100%
of the beneficial interest (as determined pursuant to the procedures).

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your Year-End RSUs required by this
Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b) and (c)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9 and
the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied. To the extent
that any portion of this Award is intended to satisfy the requirements for short-term deferral
treatment under Section 409A, delivery for such portion shall occur by the March 15 coinciding
with the last day of the applicable  short-term deferral  period described in Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)
in order for the delivery of Shares to be within the short-term deferral exception unless, in order
to permit all applicable conditions or restrictions on delivery to be satisfied, the Committee
elects, pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with
Section 409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to such
later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs.
1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m))
and 1.409A-3(d).

-9- 

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your Year-End RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with
respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted
under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of
Employment occurs; provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the
Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier
of the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under
Section 409A) the date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter
date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes
of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination
of Employment from the Firm (as defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be paid
to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after
the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding Year-End RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee
receives satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such
delivery or payment shall be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as
reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you
under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

(j) The Grantee understands and agrees that the Grantee is solely responsible for the payment
of any taxes and penalties due pursuant to Section 409A.

16.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 457A . To the extent the
Committee or the Plan s committee that has been delegated certain authority by the Committee (the
 SIP Committee ) determines that (i) Section 457A of the Code or any guidance promulgated
thereunder ( Section

-10- 

457A ) requires that, in order to qualify for the short-term deferral exception from treatment
as  deferred compensation  under Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code, the documents governing an
Award must specify that such Award will be delivered within the period set forth in Section
457(A)(d)(3)(B) of the Code and (ii) all or any portion of this Award is or becomes subject to
Section 457A, this Award Agreement will be deemed to be amended as of the Date of Grant (as the
Committee or the SIP Committee determines necessary or appropriate after consultation with counsel)
to provide that delivery of Year-End RSUs will occur no later than 12 months after the end of the
taxable year in which the right to delivery is first no longer subject to a substantial risk of
forfeiture (as defined under Section 457A); provided, however, that no action or modification will
be permitted to the extent that such action or modification would cause such Award to fail to
satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of Section 409A or
otherwise would result in an additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect of such Award.

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-11- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

-12- 

</EX-10.48>

<EX-10.49>
 9
 y88213exv10w49.htm
 EX-10.49: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (FULLY VESTED)

exv10w49 

Exhibit 10.49

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
     YEAR-END RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the      Year-End award (this
 Award ) of RSUs ( Year-End RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of Year-End RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause to be
delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of Common
Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such delivery, you
have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder of GS Inc. In
addition, some or all of any Shares delivered in respect of your Year-End RSUs will be subject to
transfer restrictions following the Delivery Date as described in Paragraph 3(b)(iv) below.
  This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it to the
address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by
the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set
forth in Paragraph 12. By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in
Paragraph    3(b)    if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(a)  Vesting . All of your Year-End RSUs shall be Vested on the Date of Grant. The
fact that your Year-End RSUs are Vested means only that your continued active Employment is not
required in order to receive delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding Year-End RSUs.
However, all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply to such
Vested Year-End RSUs, and failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the termination
of this Award (as a result of which, no Shares underlying such Year-End RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to the number or percentage of your Year-End RSUs shall be
the date specified next to such number or percentage of Year-End RSUs on your Award Statement. In
accordance with Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-3(d), the Firm may accelerate delivery
to a date that is up to 30 days before the Delivery Date specified on the Award Statement;
provided, however, that in no event shall you be permitted to designate, directly or indirectly,
the taxable year of the delivery.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 15 and
16, in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than 30
Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares
is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then Outstanding
Year-End RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred (which number
of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry credit to
your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of
the Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all
or any portion of your Year-End RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other awards
under the Plan or other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of
Shares shall include such deliveries of cash, other securities, other awards under the Plan or
other property.

(iv) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv) and Paragraphs 3(c), 7, and 9(g), the
following Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End RSUs shall not be permitted to be
sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated, fractionalized, hedged or otherwise
disposed of (including through the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or
involuntarily by you (such restrictions collectively referred to herein as the  Transfer
Restrictions ):

(1) If the withholding rate applicable to the delivery of Shares on a Delivery
Date (or any other date delivery of Shares is called for hereunder) is at least 50%,
then all the Shares delivered to you (after application of the withholding) in
respect of your Year-End RSUs on such date will be subject to the Transfer
Restrictions until the date specified in your Award Statement as the  Transferability
Date  (the  Transferability Date ).

(2) If the withholding rate applicable to the delivery of Shares on a Delivery
Date (or any other date delivery of Shares is called for hereunder) is less than 50%,
then 50% of the Shares scheduled to be delivered to you (prior to application of any
withholding) on such date will be subject to the Transfer Restrictions until the
Transferability Date,  and the remaining Shares delivered to you (after application
of any withholding) on such date will be subject to the Transfer Restrictions until
the six-month anniversary of the Delivery Date . Shares may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares.

Shares that are subject to Transfer Restrictions are referred to in this Award Agreement as  Shares
at Risk.  Any date on which Transfer Restrictions lapse pursuant to this Paragraph 3(b)(iv) is
referred to in this Award Agreement as an  Applicable Transferability Date.  Any purported sale,
exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other
disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void. If and to the extent your
Shares at Risk are certificated, the Certificates representing the Shares at Risk are subject to
the restrictions in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv), and GS Inc. shall advise its transfer agent to place a
stop order against your Shares at Risk. Within 30 Business Days after the Applicable
Transferability Date (or any

-2- 

other date described herein on which the Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall take, or
shall cause to be taken, such steps as may be necessary to remove the Transfer Restrictions.

(v) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares (including Shares at Risk) may be
made initially into an escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the
Firm and may be held in that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such
documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee has determined that any other
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been
satisfied. By accepting your Year-End RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate
or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such
terms and conditions (which may include, without limitation, your (or your estate or beneficiary)
executing any documents related to, and your (or your estate or beneficiary) paying for any costs
associated with, such account) as the Firm may deem necessary or appropriate. Any such escrow
arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall
have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on
such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its
sole discretion.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date and/or the Applicable Transferability Date,
the Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be delivered to the representative
of your estate and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply as soon as practicable after the
date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the
Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to
specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Year-End RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares; Termination of Shares at Risk .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 7,
and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Applicable
Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(c), 4(d) and 4(f), and subject to
Paragraph 6(b):

(i) your rights in respect of all Year-End RSUs shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End
RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof, if you
engage in  Competition  (as defined below) prior to the earlier of December 31,      or the date on
which your Year-End RSUs become deliverable following a Change in Control in accordance with
Paragraph 7 hereof;

(ii) your rights in respect of the number or percentage of Year-End RSUs that are scheduled to
deliver in January      and January      shall terminate, such number of Year-End RSUs shall cease
to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof, if you engage in
Competition on or after December 31,     , but prior to the earlier of December 31,      or the
date on which your Year-End RSUs become deliverable following a Change in Control in accordance
with Paragraph 7 hereof; and

(iii) your rights in respect of the number or percentage of Year-End RSUs that are scheduled
to deliver in January      shall terminate, such number of Year-End RSUs shall cease to be
Outstanding, and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof, if you engage in Competition on
or after

-3- 

December 31,     , but prior to the earlier of December 31,      or the date on which your
Year-End RSUs become deliverable following a Change in Control in accordance with Paragraph 7
hereof.

For purposes of this Award Agreement,  Competition  means that you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or
greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise,
or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer,
employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs immediately shall terminate, such
Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm or this Award, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice
period requirement applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders 
agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid;

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding Year-End RSUs;

  -4- 

(viii)  GS Inc. fails to maintain the required  Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio  as defined under
Federal Reserve Board Regulations applicable to GS Inc. for a period of 90 consecutive business
days; or 

(ix)  the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve or the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (the  FDIC ) makes a written recommendation under Title II (Orderly Liquidation
Authority) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act for the appointment of
the FDIC as a receiver of GS Inc. based on a determination that GS Inc. is  in default  or  in
danger of default.  

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (A) any Firm employee or
consultant (1) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (2) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (B) any Managing Director of the Firm.

(d) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Shares at Risk immediately shall terminate and such Shares at Risk
shall be cancelled (and shall be subject to repayment in a manner similar to the provisions
described in Paragraph 5) if:

(i) any event constituting Cause has occurred;

(ii) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm or this Award, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice
period requirement applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders 
agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(iii) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement; or

(iv) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Shares at Risk.

(e) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any
amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an
agreement referred to in Paragraphs 4(c)(v) and 4(d)(ii), regardless of whether such obligation
arises under a written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting
Cause referred to in Paragraphs 4(c)(ii) and 4(d)(i).

(f) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision in
Paragraphs 4(c) or 4(d), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee determines that,
during the Firm s      fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or marketing of any product
or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the purchase or sale of
any security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the risk to the
Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly analyzed
such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result
of such action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be
expected to be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial
system, your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs awarded as part of this Award immediately
shall terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered
in respect thereof

-5- 

(and any Shares, Dividend Equivalents, dividends on Shares at Risk or other amounts paid or
delivered to you in respect of this Award shall be subject to repayment in accordance with, or in a
manner similar to the provisions described in, Paragraph 5) and any Shares at Risk shall be
cancelled.

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which require Grantees to
repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all terms and
conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall apply to
this Award.

6.  Certain Terminations of Employment. 

(a) In the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section
1.2.19 of the Plan) for any reason, all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue
to apply.

(b) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its discretion, Paragraph 4(b) will not
apply following termination of Employment that is characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by
 mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general waiver and release of
claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm
or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed
to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will constitute an
 involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraph 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months
thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for
Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be delivered and any
Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights; Dividends . Each Year-End RSU shall include a Dividend
Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs, at or after
the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the
record date for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an
amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made
in respect of the Share underlying such Outstanding Year-End RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend
Equivalent Right shall be made only with respect to Year-End RSUs that are Outstanding on the
relevant record date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section
2.8.2 of the Plan. You shall be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash dividend
paid by GS Inc. in respect of your Shares at Risk, or, if the Shares at Risk are held in escrow,
the Firm will direct the transfer/paying agent to distribute the dividends to you in respect of
your Shares at Risk.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
     fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form

-6- 

of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award (or
any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you may have
under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the timing of
the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with your Year-End RSU Award, including, without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(c), 4(d) and 4(f), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization, or any agency or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or Shares
at Risk would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk;

then any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply, and, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you
shall receive either a lump sum cash payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your
then Outstanding Year-End RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has
received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

-7- 

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment while you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk, you may be required to certify,
from time to time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award
Agreement. You understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of any
changes to your address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are
responsible for obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive
certification materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by
the deadline specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your
Outstanding Year-End RSUs and Shares at Risk, as applicable, in accordance with Paragraphs 4(c)(iv)
and 4(d)(iii).

10.  Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares or to remove the Transfer Restrictions under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4
of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding
amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax
equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 13 or
as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in
Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in
violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The
Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End RSUs may
transfer some or all of their Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk (which shall continue to be
subject to Transfer Restrictions until the Applicable Transferability Date) through a gift for no
consideration to any immediate family member (as determined pursuant to the procedures) or a trust
in which the recipient and/or the recipient s immediate family members in the aggregate have 100%
of the beneficial interest (as determined pursuant to the procedures).

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

  -8- 

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your Year-End RSUs required by this
Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9 and
the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied. To the extent
that any portion of this Award is intended to satisfy the requirements for short-term deferral
treatment under Section 409A, delivery for such portion shall occur by the March 15 coinciding
with the last day of the applicable  short-term deferral  period described in Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)
in order for the delivery of Shares to be within the short-term deferral exception unless, in order
to permit all applicable conditions or restrictions on delivery to be satisfied, the Committee
elects, pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with
Section 409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to such
later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs.
1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m))
and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your Year-End RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with
respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted
under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of
Employment occurs; provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the
Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier
of the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under
Section 409A) the date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter
date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes
of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to

-9- 

termination of Employment mean a termination of Employment from the Firm (as defined by the
Firm) which is also a separation from service (as defined by the Firm in accordance with Section
409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be paid
to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after
the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding Year-End RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee
receives satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such
delivery or payment shall be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as
reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you
under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

(j) The Grantee understands and agrees that the Grantee is solely responsible for the payment
of any taxes and penalties due pursuant to Section 409A.

16.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 457A . To the extent the
Committee or the Plan s committee that has been delegated certain authority by the Committee (the
 SIP Committee ) determines that (i) Section 457A of the Code or any guidance promulgated
thereunder ( Section 457A ) requires that, in order to qualify for the short-term deferral
exception from treatment as  deferred compensation  under Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code, the
documents governing an Award must specify that such Award will be delivered within the period set
forth in Section 457(A)(d)(3)(B) of the Code and (ii) all or any portion of this Award is or
becomes subject to Section 457A, this Award Agreement will be deemed to be amended as of the Date
of Grant (as the Committee or the SIP Committee determines necessary or appropriate after
consultation with counsel) to provide that delivery of Year-End RSUs will occur no later than 12
months after the end of the taxable year in which the right to delivery is first no longer subject
to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined under Section 457A); provided, however, that no
action or modification will be permitted to the extent that such action or modification would cause
such Award to fail to satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of
Section 409A or otherwise would result in an additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect
of such Award.

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-10- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

-11- 

</EX-10.49>

<EX-10.50>
 10
 y88213exv10w50.htm
 EX-10.50: FORM OF YEAR-END RSU AWARD AGREEMENT (BASE AND/OR SUPPLEMENTAL)

exv10w50 

Exhibit 10.50

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
     YEAR-END RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the      Year-End award (this
 Award ) of RSUs ( Year-End RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of Year-End RSUs subject to this Award is set forth in the Award
Statement delivered to you and is comprised of the number of RSUs designated on your Award
Statement as       Year-End RSUs  and       Year-End Supplemental RSUs.  The      Year-End
Supplemental RSUs are referred to in this Award Agreement as  Supplemental RSUs,  and, unless
otherwise provided, all references to  Year-End RSUs  include both the Supplemental RSUs and the
RSUs designated on your Award Statement as       Year-End RSUs.  (For the avoidance of doubt, this
Award Agreement does not govern the terms and conditions of the RSUs designated on your Award
Statement as       Year-End Short-Term RSUs,  which are addressed separately in the      Year-End
Short-Term RSU Award Agreement.) An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver (or cause
to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a share of
Common Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such
delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder
of GS Inc. In addition, Shares delivered in respect of your Year-End RSUs will be subject to
transfer restrictions following the Delivery Date as described in Paragraph 3(b)(iv) below.
  This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and returning it to the
address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the signature card by
the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set
forth in Paragraph 12. By executing the related signature card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in Paragraph    3(b)    if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 6, 7, 9,
10 and 15, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of Year-End
RSUs

specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded to avoid
fractional Shares), such that Vesting applies first to Supplemental RSUs and then to the other
Year-End RSUs. When a Year-End RSU becomes Vested, it means only that your continued active
Employment is not required in order to receive delivery of the Shares underlying your Outstanding
Year-End RSUs that are or become Vested. However, all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested Year-End RSUs, and failure to meet such terms and
conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result of which, no Shares underlying
such Vested Year-End RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery and Transfer Restrictions .

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to the number or percentage of your Year-End RSUs shall be
the date specified next to such number or percentage of Year-End RSUs on your Award Statement, such
that delivery applies first to Shares underlying the Supplemental RSUs and then to Shares
underlying the other Year-End RSUs. In accordance with Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. )
1.409A-3(d), the Firm may accelerate delivery to a date that is up to 30 days before the Delivery
Date specified on the Award Statement; provided, however, that in no event shall you be permitted
to designate, directly or indirectly, the taxable year of the delivery.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 15
and 16, in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than
30 Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of
Shares is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then
Outstanding Year-End RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred
(which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry
credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of
the Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all
or any portion of your Year-End RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other awards
under the Plan or other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries of
Shares shall include such deliveries of cash, other securities, other awards under the Plan or
other property.

(iv) Except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 7, and 9(g), the following Shares delivered to you
in respect of your Year-End RSUs shall not be permitted to be sold, exchanged, transferred,
assigned, pledged, hypothecated, fractionalized, hedged or otherwise disposed of (including through
the use of any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by you (such
restrictions collectively referred to herein as the  Transfer Restrictions ):

(A)  Transfer Restrictions on Supplemental RSU Shares . All Shares
delivered to you in respect of Supplemental RSUs (after application of any tax or
other withholding) shall be subject to the Transfer Restrictions until the six-month
anniversary of the Delivery Date.

(B)  Transfer Restrictions on Year-End RSU Shares that are not
Supplemental RSU Shares .

(1) If the withholding rate applicable to the delivery of Shares
underlying Year-End RSUs that are not Supplemental RSUs on a Delivery Date (or
any other date delivery of Shares is called for hereunder) is at least 50%,
then all the Shares delivered to you (after application of the withholding) in
respect of such RSUs

-2- 

on such date will be subject to the Transfer Restrictions until the date
specified for such RSUs in your Award Statement as the  Transferability Date 
(the  Transferability Date ).

(2) If the withholding rate applicable to delivery of Shares underlying
Year-End RSUs that are not Supplemental RSUs on a Delivery Date (or any other
date delivery of Shares is called for hereunder) is less than 50%, then 50% of
the Shares scheduled to be delivered to you (prior to application of any
withholding) in respect of such RSUs on such date will be subject to the
Transfer Restrictions until the Transferability Date. The remaining Shares
underlying such RSUs delivered to you (after application of any withholding)
on such date will be subject to the Transfer Restrictions until the six-month
anniversary of the Delivery Date. Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional
Shares.

Shares that are subject to Transfer Restrictions are referred to in this Award Agreement as  Shares
at Risk.  Any date on which Transfer Restrictions lapse pursuant to this Paragraph 3(b)(iv) is
referred to in this Award Agreement as an  Applicable Transferability Date.  Any purported sale,
exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other
disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void. If and to the extent your
Shares at Risk are certificated, the Certificates representing the Shares at Risk are subject to
the restrictions in this Paragraph 3(b)(iv), and GS Inc. shall advise its transfer agent to place a
stop order against your Shares at Risk. Within 30 Business Days after the Applicable
Transferability Date (or any other date described herein on which the Transfer Restrictions are
removed), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps as may be necessary to remove
the Transfer Restrictions.

(v) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares (including Shares at Risk) may be
made initially into an escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the
Firm and may be held in that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such
documentation as it may have requested or until the Committee has determined that any other
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been
satisfied. By accepting your Year-End RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate
or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such
terms and conditions (which may include, without limitation, your (or your estate or beneficiary)
executing any documents related to, and your (or your estate or beneficiary) paying for any costs
associated with, such account) as the Firm may deem necessary or appropriate. Any such escrow
arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall
have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on
such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its
sole discretion.

(vi) If you are a party to the Amended and Restated Shareholders  Agreement (the
 Shareholders  Agreement ), Shares delivered with respect to your Year-End RSUs will be subject to
the Shareholders  Agreement, except that Shares delivered with respect to Supplemental RSUs will
not be considered  Covered Shares  for purposes of Section 2.1(a) of the Shareholders  Agreement.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date and/or the Applicable Transferability Date,
the Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be delivered to the representative
of your estate and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply as soon as practicable after the
date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the
Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to
specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

-3- 

4.  Termination of Year-End RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares; Termination of Shares at
Risk .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 6,
7, and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but that
had not yet become Vested prior to your termination of Employment immediately shall terminate, such
Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof.
Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(c), 7, and 9(g),
if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively employed with
the Firm, any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Applicable Transferability
Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs (whether or not Vested) immediately
shall terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered
in respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with the
Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any relationship
between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of the Firm to resign
from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive Enterprise or (4) on behalf
of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or participate in the hiring of, any
Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the identification of, Selected Firm
Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected
Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted into partnership, membership or similar status (1)
by a Competitive Enterprise that you form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member
or have similar status, or in which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity
ownership, voting or profit participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or
are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected
Firm Personnel;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(v) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm or this Award, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice
period requirement applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders 
agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(vi) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid;

(vii) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or

-4- 

other property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect
of any Outstanding Year-End RSUs;

(viii) GS Inc. fails to maintain the required  Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio  as defined under
Federal Reserve Board Regulations applicable to GS Inc. for a period of 90 consecutive business
days; or

(ix) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve or the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (the  FDIC ) makes a written recommendation under Title II (Orderly Liquidation
Authority) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act for the appointment of
the FDIC as a receiver of GS Inc. based on a determination that GS Inc. is  in default  or  in
danger of default. 

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (A) any Firm employee or
consultant (1) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (2) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (B) any Managing Director of the Firm.

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Shares at Risk immediately shall terminate and such Shares at Risk
shall be cancelled (and shall be subject to repayment in a manner similar to the provisions
described in Paragraph 5) if:

(i) any event constituting Cause has occurred;

(ii) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm or this Award, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice
period requirement applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders 
agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(iii) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement; or

(iv) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Shares at Risk.

(d) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any
amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an
agreement referred to in Paragraphs 4(b)(v) and 4(c)(ii), regardless of whether such obligation
arises under a written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting
Cause referred to in Paragraphs 4(b)(ii) and 4(c)(i).

(e) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision in
Paragraphs 4(b) or 4(c), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee determines that,
during the Firm s      fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or marketing of any product
or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the purchase or sale of
any security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the risk to the
Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly analyzed
such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result
of such action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or

-5- 

reasonably could be expected to be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit
or the broader financial system, your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs awarded as part of
this Award (whether or not Vested) immediately shall terminate, such Year-End RSUs shall cease to
be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect thereof (and any Shares, Dividend
Equivalents, dividends on Shares at Risk or other amounts paid or delivered to you in respect of
this Award shall be subject to repayment in accordance with, or in a manner similar to the
provisions described in, Paragraph 5) and any Shares at Risk shall be cancelled.

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which require Grantees to
repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all terms and
conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall apply to
this Award.

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement, Downsizing and Approved Termination for Program Analysts. 

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to Paragraph
6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in Section 1.2.19
of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined below), the condition set
forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but
that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of
which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested), but all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply (including any applicable Transfer Restrictions).
Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or otherwise,  Retirement  means termination
of your Employment (other than for Cause) on or after the Date of Grant at a time when (i) (A) the
sum of your age plus years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole
discretion) equals or exceeds 60 and (B) you have completed at least 10 years of service with the
Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) or, if earlier, (ii) (A) you have
attained age 50 and (B) you have completed at least five years of service with the Firm (as
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion). Any termination of Employment by reason of
Extended Absence or Retirement shall not affect any applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any
Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Applicable Transferability Date as provided
in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(e), your rights in respect
of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph 6(a) immediately
shall terminate, such Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding, and no Shares shall
be delivered in respect thereof if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such
Year-End RSUs, you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit
participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity
(including, but not limited to, association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant,
agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise
determined by the Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b) will not apply if your
termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement is characterized by the Firm
as  involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general
waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be
prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including
any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good
reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment
by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your executing
such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability,
both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated without
Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived
with respect to your Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested
immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End RSUs shall
become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply (including
any applicable Transfer Restrictions). Whether or not your

-6- 

Employment is terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined by the Firm in
its sole discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination
claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will be
solely by reason of a  downsizing.  Your termination of Employment by reason of  downsizing  shall
not affect any applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to
apply until the Applicable Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, if you are classified by the
Firm as a  program analyst,  and your Employment is terminated without Cause solely by reason of an
 approved termination  with respect to your participation in the program prior to any Vesting Date
specified on your Award Statement, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with
respect to any Year-End RSUs that were Outstanding but had not yet become Vested immediately prior
to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Year-End RSUs shall become Vested),
but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply (including any applicable
Transfer Restrictions). Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, for purposes of this
Paragraph 6(d), an  approved termination  shall mean a termination of Employment from the analyst
program where you: (i) successfully complete the analyst program (as determined by the Firm in its
sole discretion), which shall include, but not be limited to, remaining Employed by the Firm
through the analyst program completion date specified by the Firm and (ii) terminate Employment
with the Firm immediately after you complete the analyst program, without any  stay-on  or other
agreement or understanding to continue Employment with the Firm. If you agree to stay with the
Firm as an employee after your analyst program ends and then later terminate Employment, you will
not have an  approved termination.  An  approved termination  shall not affect any applicable
Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the Applicable
Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(b)(iv).

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraph 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months
thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for
Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End RSUs, whether or not Vested,
shall be delivered and any Transfer Restrictions shall cease to apply.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights; Dividends . Each Year-End RSU shall include a Dividend
Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs, at or after
the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the
record date for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to receive an
amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made
in respect of the Share underlying such Outstanding Year-End RSU. Payment in respect of a Dividend
Equivalent Right shall be made only with respect to Year-End RSUs that are Outstanding on the
relevant record date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right shall be subject to the provisions of Section
2.8.2 of the Plan. You shall be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash dividend
paid by GS Inc. in respect of your Shares at Risk, or, if the Shares at Risk are held in escrow,
the Firm will direct the transfer/paying agent to distribute the dividends to you in respect of
your Shares at Risk.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
     fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual,

-7- 

anticipated or potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by
requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or
otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to
you pursuant to this Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however,
shall any choice you may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any
discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax
obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End RSUs are
conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly
situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with respect
to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to the timing
of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation or
aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand and
agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses associated
with your Year-End RSU Award, including, without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(e), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization, or any agency or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or Shares
at Risk would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be
waived with respect to any Year-End RSUs you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a result
of which such Year-End RSUs

-8- 

shall become Vested) and, in the case of Paragraphs 9(g)(i) and 9(g)(ii), any Transfer Restrictions
shall cease to apply, and, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum
cash payment in respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your then Outstanding Vested Year-End
RSUs, in each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory
documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment while you
continue to hold Outstanding Vested Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk, you may be required to
certify, from time to time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement. You understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of
any changes to your address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are
responsible for obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive
certification materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by
the deadline specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your
Outstanding Year-End RSUs and Shares at Risk, as applicable, in accordance with Paragraphs 4(b)(iv)
and 4(c)(iii).

10.  Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares or to remove the Transfer Restrictions under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4
of the Plan, which provides for the Firm s right to offset against such obligation any outstanding
amounts you owe to the Firm and any amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax
equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 13 or
as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in
Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in
violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The
Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End RSUs may
transfer some or all of their Year-End RSUs and/or Shares at Risk (which shall continue to be
subject to Transfer Restrictions until the Applicable Transferability Date) through a gift for no
consideration to any immediate family member (as determined pursuant to the procedures) or a trust
in which the recipient and/or the recipient s immediate family members in the aggregate have 100%
of the beneficial interest (as determined pursuant to the procedures).

-9- 

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your Year-End RSUs required by this
Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and (c), 6(b) and (c)
(execution of waiver and release of claims and agreement to pay associated tax liability) and 9 and
the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied. To the extent
that any portion of this Award is intended to satisfy the requirements for short-term deferral
treatment under Section 409A, delivery for such portion shall occur by the March 15 coinciding
with the last day of the applicable  short-term deferral  period described in Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)
in order for the delivery of Shares to be within the short-term deferral exception unless, in order
to permit all applicable conditions or restrictions on delivery to be satisfied, the Committee
elects, pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in accordance with
Section 409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar year or to such
later date as may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs.
1.409A-2(b)(7) (in conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m))
and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your Year-End RSUs shall not have the effect of deferring
delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the date on
which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would lapse, with
respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee elects a
later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted
under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the subsequent
election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of
Employment occurs; provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the
Firm in

-10- 

accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier of
the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under
Section 409A) the date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter
date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes
of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination
of Employment from the Firm (as defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End RSUs shall be paid
to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any corresponding regular
cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for which occurs on or after
the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such
regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the Shares underlying such
Outstanding Year-End RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee
receives satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such
delivery or payment shall be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as
reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you
under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

(j) The Grantee understands and agrees that the Grantee is solely responsible for the payment
of any taxes and penalties due pursuant to Section 409A.

16.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 457A . To the extent the
Committee or the Plan s committee that has been delegated certain authority by the Committee (the
 SIP Committee ) determines that (i) Section 457A of the Code or any guidance promulgated
thereunder ( Section 457A ) requires that, in order to qualify for the short-term deferral
exception from treatment as  deferred compensation  under Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code, the
documents governing an Award must specify that such Award will be delivered within the period set
forth in Section 457(A)(d)(3)(B) of the Code and (ii) all or any portion of this Award is or
becomes subject to Section 457A, this Award Agreement will be deemed to be amended as of the Date
of Grant (as the Committee or the SIP Committee determines necessary or appropriate after
consultation with counsel) to provide that delivery of Year-End RSUs will occur no later than 12
months after the end of the taxable year in which the right to delivery is first no longer subject
to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined under Section 457A); provided, however, that no
action or modification will be permitted to the extent that such action or modification would cause
such Award to fail to satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the requirements of
Section 409A or otherwise would result in an additional tax imposed under Section 409A in respect
of such Award.

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-11- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

-12- 

</EX-10.50>

<EX-10.51>
 11
 y88213exv10w51.htm
 EX-10.51: FORM OF YEAR-END SHORT-TERM RSU AWARD AGREEMENT

exv10w51 

Exhibit 10.51

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
     YEAR-END SHORT-TERM RSU AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the      Year-End award (this
 Award ) of  Short-Term  RSUs ( Year-End Short-Term RSUs ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs
Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.   In light of the U.S. tax rules relating to deferred
compensation in Section 409A of the Code, to the extent that you are a United States taxpayer,
certain provisions of this Award Agreement and of the Plan shall apply only as provided in
Paragraph 15   . 

2.  Award . The number of Year-End Short-Term RSUs subject to this Award is set forth
in the Award Statement delivered to you. An RSU is an unfunded and unsecured promise to deliver
(or cause to be delivered) to you, subject to the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement, a
share of Common Stock (a  Share ) on the Delivery Date or as otherwise provided herein. Until such
delivery, you have only the rights of a general unsecured creditor, and no rights as a shareholder
of GS Inc.   This Award is conditioned on your executing the related signature card and
returning it to the address designated on the signature card and/or by the method designated on the
signature card by the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the
Plan and this Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum
provisions set forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related signature card (which,
among other things, opens the custody account referred to in Paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have
not done so already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of
this Award Agreement.  

3.  Vesting and Delivery .

(a)  Vesting . All of your Year-End Short-Term RSUs shall be Vested on the Date of
Grant. The fact that your Year-End Short-Term RSUs are Vested means only that your continued
active Employment is not required in order to receive delivery of the Shares underlying your
Outstanding Year-End Short-Term RSUs. However, all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement shall continue to apply to such Vested Year-End Short-Term RSUs, and failure to meet such
terms and conditions may result in the termination of this Award (as a result of which, no Shares
underlying such Year-End Short-Term RSUs would be delivered).

(b)  Delivery .

(i) The Delivery Date with respect to the number or percentage of your Year-End Short-Term
RSUs shall be the date specified next to such number or percentage of Year-End Short-Term RSUs on
your Award Statement. In accordance with Treasury Regulations section ( Reg. ) 1.409A-3(d), the
Firm may accelerate delivery to a date that is up to 30 days before the Delivery Date specified on
the Award
Statement; provided, however, that in no event shall you be permitted to designate, directly
or indirectly, the taxable year of the delivery.

(ii) Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4, 5, 7, 9, 10, 15 and
16, in accordance with Section 3.23 of the Plan, reasonably promptly (but in no case more than 30
Business Days) after each date specified as a Delivery Date (or any other date delivery of Shares
is called for hereunder), Shares underlying the number or percentage of your then Outstanding
Year-End Short-Term RSUs with respect to which such Delivery Date (or other date) has occurred
(which number of Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall be delivered by book entry
credit to your Custody Account or to a brokerage account, as approved or required by the Firm.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or become considered by GS Inc. to be one of its  covered
employees  within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, then you shall be subject to Section
3.21.3 of the Plan, as a result of which delivery of your Shares may be delayed.

(iii) In accordance with Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, in the discretion of
the Committee, in lieu of all or any portion of the Shares otherwise deliverable in respect of all
or any portion of your Year-End Short-Term RSUs, the Firm may deliver cash, other securities, other
awards under the Plan or other property, and all references in this Award Agreement to deliveries
of Shares shall include such deliveries of cash, other securities, other awards under the Plan or
other property.

(iv) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of Shares may be made initially into an
escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the Firm and may be held in
that escrow account until such time as the Committee has received such documentation as it may have
requested or until the Committee has determined that any other conditions or restrictions on
delivery of Shares required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your
Year-End Short-Term RSUs, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other permitted
beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account on such terms and
conditions (which may include, without limitation, your (or your estate or beneficiary) executing
any documents related to, and your (or your estate or beneficiary) paying for any costs associated
with, such account) as the Firm may deem necessary or appropriate. Any such escrow arrangement
shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the
exclusive authority to vote such Shares while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares
held in escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its sole
discretion.

(v) If you are a party to the Amended and Restated Shareholders  Agreement (the  Shareholders 
Agreement ), Shares delivered with respect to your Year-End Short-Term RSUs will be subject to the
Shareholders  Agreement, except those Shares will not be considered  Covered Shares  for purposes
of Section 2.1(a) of the Shareholders  Agreement.

(c)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement (except
Paragraph 15), if you die prior to the Delivery Date, the Shares underlying your then Outstanding
Year-End Short-Term RSUs shall be delivered to the representative of your estate as soon as
practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the
Committee is provided to the Committee. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you
may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Outstanding Year-End Short-Term RSUs
under your will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such
other similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

-2- 

4.  Termination of Year-End Short-Term RSUs and Non-Delivery of Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, your
rights in respect of all of your Outstanding Year-End Short-Term RSUs immediately shall terminate,
such Year-End Short-Term RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in
respect thereof if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in any
manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed to
comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. By accepting the
delivery of Shares under this Award Agreement, you shall be deemed to have represented and
certified at such time that you have complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and
this Award Agreement;

(iv) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation you may
have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in connection with
your Employment with the Firm or this Award, including, without limitation, the Firm s notice
period requirement applicable to you, any offer letter, employment agreement or any shareholders 
agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party;

(v) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for delivery of Shares in respect of this Award Agreement are invalid; or

(vi) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity or other
property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in respect of any
Outstanding Year-End Short-Term RSUs.

For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand, for any amount you
owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have under an agreement
referred to in Paragraph 4(a)(iv), regardless of whether such obligation arises under a written
agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause referred to in
Paragraph 4(a)(ii).

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the
Committee determines that, during the Firm s      fiscal year, you participated in the structuring
or marketing of any product or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients
in the purchase or sale of any security or other property, in any case without appropriate
consideration of the risk to the Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example,
where you have improperly analyzed such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise
concerns about such risk) and, as a result of such action or omission, the Committee determines
there has been, or reasonably could be expected to be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your
business unit or the broader financial system, your rights in respect of your Year-End Short-Term
RSUs awarded as part of this Award (whether or not Vested) immediately shall terminate, such
Year-End Short-Term RSUs shall cease to be Outstanding and no Shares shall be delivered in respect
thereof (and any Shares, Dividend Equivalents or other amounts paid or delivered to you in respect
of this Award shall be subject to repayment in accordance with, or in a manner similar to the
provisions described in, Paragraph 5).

-3- 

5.  Repayment . The provisions of Section 2.6.3 of the Plan (which require Grantees to
repay to the Firm amounts delivered to them if the Committee determines that all terms and
conditions of this Award Agreement in respect of such delivery were not satisfied) shall apply to
this Award.

6.  Termination of Employment.  In the event of the termination of your Employment
(determined as described in Section 1.2.19 of the Plan) for any reason, all terms and conditions of
this Award Agreement shall continue to apply.

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement (except Paragraph 15), in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months
thereafter the Firm terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for
Good Reason, all Shares underlying your then Outstanding Year-End Short-Term RSUs shall be
delivered.

8.  Dividend Equivalent Rights . Each Year-End Short-Term RSU shall include a Dividend
Equivalent Right. Accordingly, with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End Short-Term RSUs,
at or after the time of distribution of any regular cash dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of a
Share the record date for which occurs on or after the Date of Grant, you shall be entitled to
receive an amount (less applicable withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would
have been made in respect of the Share underlying such Outstanding Year-End Short-Term RSU.
Payment in respect of a Dividend Equivalent Right shall be made only with respect to Year-End
Short-Term RSUs that are Outstanding on the relevant record date. Each Dividend Equivalent Right
shall be subject to the provisions of Section 2.8.2 of the Plan.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares is conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding
taxes in accordance with Section 3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the
Firm, in its sole discretion, may require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any
Federal, State, local, foreign or other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection
with the grant, vesting or delivery of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such
amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from
the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award. In addition, if you
are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time during and/or after the Firm s
     fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you to provide for a reserve in an
amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection with any actual, anticipated or
potential tax consequences related to your separate employment contracts by requiring you to choose
between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in
the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no event, however, shall any choice you
may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give you any discretion to affect, the
timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the Year-End
Short-Term RSUs are conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of your Year-End Short-Term RSUs are conditioned on the receipt to
the full satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the
Plan) that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award, you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of the Plan,
which are incorporated herein by reference.

-4- 

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by accepting this
Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to time concerning
trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or other awards
(including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions Involving GS
Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and confidential or
proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect of your Year-End
Short-Term RSUs in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time
with respect to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating
to the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed,
pricing method, consolidation or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm).
In addition, you understand and agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and
other fees or expenses associated with your Year-End Short-Term RSU Award, including, without
limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or expenses in connection with the sale of Shares
delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this Award
Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraph 4(a), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept employment
at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any supranational or
international organization, any self-regulatory organization, or any agency or instrumentality of
any such government or organization, or any other employer determined by the Committee, and as a
result of such employment, your continued holding of your Outstanding Year-End Short-Term RSUs
would result in an actual or perceived conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i), you
notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a time when you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End Short-Term RSUs;

then, at the sole discretion of the Firm, you shall receive either a lump sum cash payment in
respect of, or delivery of Shares underlying, your then Outstanding Year-End Short-Term RSUs, in
each case as soon as practicable after the Committee has received satisfactory documentation
relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section 1.3.5 of
the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any other
person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment while you
continue to hold Outstanding Year-End Short-Term RSUs, you may be required to certify, from time to
time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. You
understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of any changes to your
address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are responsible for
obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive certification
materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by the deadline
specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your Outstanding
Year-End Short-Term RSUs in accordance with Paragraph 4(a)(iii).

10.  Right of Offset.  Except as provided in Paragraph 15(h), the obligation to deliver
Shares under this Award Agreement is subject to Section 3.4 of the Plan, which provides for the
Firm s right to offset

-5- 

against such obligation any outstanding amounts you owe to the Firm and any
amounts the Committee deems appropriate pursuant to any tax equalization policy or agreement.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as
described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement
shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 13 or
as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, the limitations on transferability set forth in
Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any purported transfer or assignment in
violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5 of the Plan shall be void. The
Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all recipients of Year-End Short-Term RSUs
may transfer some or all of their Year-End Short-Term RSUs through a gift for no consideration to
any immediate family member (as determined pursuant to the procedures) or a trust in which the
recipient and/or the recipient s immediate family members in the aggregate have 100% of the
beneficial interest (as determined pursuant to the procedures).

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 409A . The provisions of this
Paragraph 15 apply to you only if you are a United States taxpayer.

(a) References in this Award Agreement to  Section 409A  refer to Section 409A of the Code,
including any amendments or successor provisions to that Section and any regulations and other
administrative guidance thereunder, in each case as they, from time to time, may be amended or
interpreted through further administrative guidance. This Award Agreement and the Plan provisions
that apply to this Award are intended and shall be construed to comply with Section 409A (including
the requirements applicable to, or the conditions for exemption from treatment as, a  deferral of
compensation  or  deferred compensation  as those terms are defined in the regulations under
Section 409A ( 409A deferred compensation ), whether by reason of short-term deferral treatment or
other exceptions or provisions). The Committee shall have full authority to give effect to this
intent. To the extent necessary to give effect to this intent, in the case of any conflict or
potential inconsistency between the provisions of the Plan (including, without limitation, Sections
1.3.2 and 2.1 thereof) and this Award Agreement, the provisions of this Award Agreement shall
govern, and in the case of any conflict or potential inconsistency between this Paragraph 15 and
the other provisions of this Award Agreement, this Paragraph 15 shall govern.

(b) Delivery of Shares shall not be delayed beyond the date on which all applicable
conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares in respect of your Year-End Short-Term RSUs
required by this

-6- 

Agreement (including, without limitation, those specified in Paragraphs 3(b) and
(c) and 9 and the consents and other items specified in Section 3.3 of the Plan) are satisfied. To
the extent that any portion of this Award is intended to satisfy the requirements for short-term
deferral treatment under Section 409A, delivery for such portion shall occur by the March 15
coinciding with the last day of the applicable  short-term deferral  period described in Reg.
1.409A-1(b)(4) in order for the delivery of Shares to be within the short-term deferral exception
unless, in order to permit all applicable conditions or restrictions on delivery to be satisfied,
the Committee elects, pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be permitted in
accordance with Section 409A, to delay delivery of Shares to a later date within the same calendar
year or to such later date as
may be permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation, Regs. 1.409A-2(b)(7) (in
conjunction with Section 3.21.3 of the Plan pertaining to Code Section 162(m)) and 1.409A-3(d).

(c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Paragraph 3(b)(iii) and Section 1.3.2(i) of the Plan, to
the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, any securities, other Awards or other property
that the Firm may deliver in respect of your Year-End Short-Term RSUs shall not have the effect of
deferring delivery or payment, income inclusion, or a substantial risk of forfeiture, beyond the
date on which such delivery, payment or inclusion would occur or such risk of forfeiture would
lapse, with respect to the Shares that would otherwise have been deliverable (unless the Committee
elects a later date for this purpose pursuant to Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(4)(i)(D) or otherwise as may be
permitted under Section 409A, including, without limitation and to the extent applicable, the
subsequent election provisions of Section 409A(a)(4)(C) of the Code and Reg. 1.409A-2(b)).

(d) Notwithstanding the timing provisions of Paragraph 3(c), the delivery of Shares referred
to therein shall be made after the date of death and during the calendar year that includes the
date of death (or on such later date as may be permitted under Section 409A).

(e) The timing of delivery or payment pursuant to Paragraph 7 shall occur on the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the termination of
Employment occurs; provided, however, that, if you are a  specified employee  (as defined by the
Firm in accordance with Section 409A(a)(2)(i)(B) of the Code), delivery shall occur on the earlier
of the Delivery Date or (to the extent required to avoid the imposition of additional tax under
Section 409A) the date that is six months after your termination of Employment (or, if the latter
date is not during a Window Period, the first trading day of the next Window Period). For purposes
of Paragraph 7, references in this Award Agreement to termination of Employment mean a termination
of Employment from the Firm (as defined by the Firm) which is also a separation from service (as
defined by the Firm in accordance with Section 409A).

(f) Notwithstanding any provision of Paragraph 8 or Section 2.8.2 of the Plan to the contrary,
the Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to each of your Outstanding Year-End Short-Term RSUs
shall be paid to you within the calendar year that includes the date of distribution of any
corresponding regular cash dividends paid by GS Inc. in respect of a Share the record date for
which occurs on or after the Date of Grant. The payment shall be in an amount (less applicable
withholding) equal to such regular dividend payment as would have been made in respect of the
Shares underlying such Outstanding Year-End Short-Term RSUs.

(g) The timing of delivery or payment referred to in Paragraph 9(g) shall be the earlier of
(i) the Delivery Date or (ii) a date that is within the calendar year in which the Committee
receives satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment, provided that such
delivery or payment shall be made only at such time as, and if and to the extent that it, as
reasonably determined by the Firm, would not result in the imposition of any additional tax to you
under Section 409A.

(h) Paragraph 10 and Section 3.4 of the Plan shall not apply to Awards that are 409A deferred
compensation.

-7- 

(i) Delivery of Shares in respect of any Award may be made, if and to the extent elected by
the Committee, later than the Delivery Date or other date or period specified hereinabove (but, in
the case of any Award that constitutes 409A deferred compensation, only to the extent that the
later delivery is permitted under Section 409A).

(j) The Grantee understands and agrees that the Grantee is solely responsible for the payment
of any taxes and penalties due pursuant to Section 409A.

16.  Compliance of Award Agreement and Plan with Section 457A . To the extent the
Committee or the Plan s committee that has been delegated certain authority by the Committee (the
 SIP Committee ) determines that (i) Section 457A of the Code or any guidance promulgated
thereunder ( Section 457A ) requires that, in order to qualify for the short-term deferral
exception from treatment as  deferred compensation  under Section 457A(d)(3)(B) of the Code, the
documents governing an Award must specify that such Award will be delivered within the period set
forth in Section 457(A)(d)(3)(B) of the Code and (ii) all or any portion of this Award is or
becomes subject to Section 457A, this Award Agreement will be deemed to be amended as of the Date
of Grant (as the Committee or the SIP Committee determines necessary or appropriate after
consultation with counsel) to provide that delivery of Year-End Short-Term RSUs will occur no later
than 12 months after the end of the taxable year in which the right to delivery is first no longer
subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture (as defined under Section 457A); provided, however,
that no action or modification will be permitted to the extent that such action or modification
would cause such Award to fail to satisfy the conditions of an applicable exception from the
requirements of Section 409A or otherwise would result in an additional tax imposed under Section
409A in respect of such Award.

17.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

-8- 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

-9- 

</EX-10.51>

<EX-10.52>
 12
 y88213exv10w52.htm
 EX-10.52: FORM OF YEAR-END RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT (BASE AND/OR SUPPLEMENTAL)

exv10w52 

Exhibit 10.52

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN  
_________  YEAR-END RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the    Year-End award (this
 Award ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive Plan (the
 Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award . This Award is made up of Restricted Shares. A Restricted Share is a share
of Common Stock (a  Share ) delivered under the Plan that is subject to certain transfer
restrictions and other terms and conditions described in this Award Agreement. The number of
Restricted Shares subject to this Award is set forth in the Award Statement delivered to you and is
comprised of the number of Restricted Shares designated on your Award
Statement as       Year-End
Restricted Stock  and       Year-End Supplemental Restricted Stock.  The Restricted Shares that
are designated on your Award Statement as       Year-End Supplemental Restricted Stock  are
referred to in this Award Agreement as  Supplemental Restricted Shares,  and, unless otherwise
provided, all references to  Restricted Shares  in this Award Agreement include both the Shares
that are designated on your Award Statement as       Year-End Restricted Stock  and the Shares that
are designated on your Award Statement as       Year-End Supplemental Restricted Stock.  (For the
avoidance of doubt, this Award Agreement does not govern the terms and conditions of the Restricted
Shares designated on your Award Statement as       Year-End Short-Term Restricted Stock,  which are
addressed separately in the      Year-End Short-Term Restricted Stock Award Agreement.) This Award
is conditioned upon your granting to the Firm the full power and authority to register the
Restricted Shares in its or its designee s name and authorizing the Firm or its designee to sell,
assign or transfer any Restricted Shares in the event of forfeiture of your Restricted Shares.
Unless otherwise determined by the Firm, this Award is conditioned upon your filing an election
with the Internal Revenue Service within 30 days of the grant of your Restricted Shares, electing
pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Code to be taxed currently on the fair market value of the
Restricted Shares on the Date of Grant. This will result in the recognition of taxable income on
the Date of Grant equal to such fair market value (but will not affect the Vesting of your
Restricted Shares or the removal of the Transfer Restrictions).   This Award is conditioned on
your executing the related Signature Card and returning it to the address designated on the
Signature Card and/or by the method designated on the Signature Card by the date specified, and is
subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement, including,
without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Paragraph 12  .
  By executing the related Signature Card (which, among other things, opens the custody account
referred to in Paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so already), you will have confirmed
your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.   

3.  Certain Material Terms of Restricted Shares .

(a)  Vesting . Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraphs 2, 4,
6, 7, 9 and 10, on each Vesting Date you shall become Vested in the number or percentage of
Restricted Shares specified next to such Vesting Date on the Award Statement (which may be rounded
to avoid fractional

Shares), such that Vesting applies first to Supplemental Shares and then to other Restricted
Shares. When a Restricted Share becomes Vested, it means only that your continued active
Employment is not required in order for your Restricted Shares that become Vested to become fully
transferable without risk of forfeiture. However, all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement (including the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 3(c)) shall continue to apply
to such Restricted Shares, and failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the
forfeiture of all of your rights in respect of the Restricted Shares and their return to GS Inc.
and the cancellation of this Award.

(b)  Date of Grant . The date on which your Restricted Shares will be
granted, subject to the conditions of this Award Agreement, is set forth on your Award Statement.
Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraph 2, the Restricted Shares shall be delivered
to an escrow, custody, brokerage or similar account, as approved or required by the Firm, and,
except as provided in Paragraphs 3(d), 7 and 9(g), shall be subject to the Transfer Restrictions
described in Paragraph 3(c).

(c)  Transfer Restrictions; Escrow .

(i) Except as provided in Paragraphs 3(d), 7, and 9(g), Restricted Shares shall not be
permitted to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated,
fractionalized, hedged or otherwise disposed of (including through the use of any
cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by you (such restrictions
collectively referred to herein as the  Transfer Restrictions ) until the date specified as
the  Transferability Date  next to such number or percentage of Year-End Restricted Shares
on your Award Statement (each such date, a  Transferability Date ). Any purported sale,
exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other
disposition in violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void. If and to the extent
Restricted Shares are certificated, the Certificates representing such Restricted Shares are
subject to the restrictions in this Paragraph 3(c)(i), and GS Inc. shall advise its transfer
agent to place a stop order against such Restricted Shares. Within 30 Business Days after
the Transferability Date (or any other date described herein on which the Transfer
Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps as may
be necessary to remove the Transfer Restrictions in respect of any of such Restricted Shares
that have not been previously forfeited.

(ii) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of the Restricted Shares may be made
directly into an escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the
Firm, provided that any other conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by
this Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your Restricted Shares, you have
agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm
may establish and maintain an escrow account for your benefit on such terms and conditions
as the Firm may deem necessary or appropriate (which may include, without limitation, your
(or your estate or other permitted beneficiary) executing any documents related to, and your
(or your estate or other permitted beneficiary) paying for any costs associated with, such
account). Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm,
provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares
while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated
and shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion.

(iii) If you are a party to the Amended and Restated Shareholders  Agreement (the
 Shareholders  Agreement ), your Restricted Shares that are not Supplemental Shares will be
considered  Covered Shares  for purposes of Section 2.1(a) of the Shareholders  Agreement as
described in Appendix A hereto. Your Supplemental Shares will not be considered  Covered

2 

Shares  for purposes of Section 2.1(a) of the Shareholders  Agreement and will not be
subject to the retention requirement under the Shareholders  Agreement.

(d)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement, if you
die prior to the Transferability Date with respect to your Restricted Shares, as soon as
practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the
Committee is provided to the Committee, the Transfer Restrictions then applicable to such
Restricted Shares shall be removed. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which
you may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Restricted Shares under
your will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or
such other similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

4.  Termination of Employment; Forfeiture of Restricted Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs
3(d), 6, 7, and  9(g) , if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer
actively employed with the Firm, your rights in respect of your Restricted Shares that were
Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested prior to your termination of Employment immediately
shall be forfeited, such Restricted Shares shall immediately be returned to GS Inc. and such
portion of the Award immediately shall be cancelled. Unless the Committee determines otherwise,
and except as provided in Paragraphs 3(d), 7 and  9(g) , if your Employment terminates for any reason
or you otherwise are no longer actively employed with the Firm, the Transfer Restrictions shall
continue to apply to your Restricted Shares that were Outstanding and had become Vested prior to
your termination of Employment until the Transferability Date in accordance with Paragraph 3(c).

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph
7, if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in
any manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with
the Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any
relationship between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of
the Firm to resign from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive
Enterprise or (4) on behalf of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or
participate in the hiring of, any Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the
identification of, Selected Firm Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or
consultant or otherwise, or (B) Selected Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted
into partnership, membership or similar status (1) by a Competitive Enterprise that you
form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member or have similar status, or in
which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity ownership, voting or profit
participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise where you have, or are intended to have,
direct or indirect managerial or supervisory responsibility for such Selected Firm
Personnel;

(iii) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms
or conditions for the expiration of the Transfer Restrictions with respect to this Award are
invalid;

3 

(iv) GS Inc. fails to maintain the required  Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio  as defined
under Federal Reserve Board Regulations applicable to GS Inc. for a period of 90 consecutive
business days; or

(v) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve or the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (the  FDIC ) makes a written recommendation under Title II (Orderly Liquidation
Authority) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act for the
appointment of the FDIC as a receiver of GS Inc. based on a determination that GS Inc. is
 in default  or  in danger of default, 

your rights in respect of the following Restricted Shares (whether or not Vested) immediately shall
be forfeited, such Shares immediately shall be returned to GS Inc. and such portion of the Award
immediately shall be cancelled: (x) all of your Outstanding Restricted Shares if any of the events
described in this Paragraph 4(b) (the  Events ) occurs prior to the      RSU Delivery Date (as
defined in Appendix A); (y) two-thirds of your Outstanding Restricted Shares if any of the Events
occurs on or after the      RSU Delivery Date but prior to the      RSU Delivery Date (as defined
in Appendix A); and (z) one-third of your Outstanding Restricted Shares if any of the Events occurs
on or after the      RSU Delivery Date but prior to the      RSU Delivery Date (as defined in
Appendix A). Shares may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares. Such forfeiture will apply first
to any Outstanding Restricted Shares that are not Vested and then to Vested Restricted Shares.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (A) any Firm employee or
consultant (1) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (2) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (B) any Managing Director of the Firm.

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph
7, your rights in respect of Outstanding Restricted Shares (whether or not Vested) immediately
shall be forfeited, and such Shares immediately shall be returned to GS Inc., if, before the
Transferability Date for such Restricted Shares:

(i) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(ii) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation
you may have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in
connection with your Employment with the Firm or this Award, including, without limitation,
the Firm s notice period requirement applicable to you, any offer letter, employment
agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the
Firm are a party;

(iii) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed
to comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. On each
Transferability Date, you shall be deemed to have represented and certified that you have
complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement; or

(iv) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity
or other property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in
respect of any Outstanding Restricted Shares.

4 

(d) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand,
for any amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have
under an agreement referred to in Paragraph 4(c)(ii), regardless of whether such obligation arises
under a written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause
referred to in Paragraph 4(c)(i).

(e) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision
in Paragraphs 4(b) or 4(c), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee determines
that, during the Firm s      fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or marketing of any
product or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the purchase or
sale of any security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the risk
to the Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly
analyzed such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as
a result of such action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could
be expected to be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader
financial system, your rights in respect of your Outstanding Restricted Shares awarded as part of
this Award (whether or not Vested) immediately shall be forfeited, such Shares immediately shall be
returned to GS Inc. and this Award shall be cancelled (and any dividends or other amounts paid or
delivered to you in respect of this Award shall be subject to repayment in accordance with, or in a
manner similar to the provisions described in, Paragraph 5).

5.  Repayment and Forfeiture .

(a) The provisions of Section 2.5.2 of the Plan (which require Grantees to repay to
the Firm the value of Restricted Shares, without reduction for related withholding tax, if the
Committee determines that all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement were not satisfied)
shall apply to this Award, except that if the condition that was not satisfied would have resulted
in the Transfer Restrictions not being removed, then the Fair Market Value of the Shares shall be
determined as of the Transferability Date (or any earlier date that the Transfer Restrictions were
removed).

(b) If and to the extent you forfeit any Restricted Shares hereunder or are required
to repay any amount in respect of a number of Restricted Shares pursuant to Paragraph 5(a), you
also will be required to pay to the Firm, immediately upon demand therefor, an amount
equal to the Fair Market Value (determined as of the Date of Grant) of the number of Shares that
were used to satisfy tax withholding for such Restricted Shares that are forfeited or subject to
repayment pursuant to Paragraph 5(a). Such repayment amount for Restricted Shares applied to tax
withholding will be determined by multiplying the number of Restricted Shares that were used to
satisfy withholding taxes related to this Award (the  Tax Withholding Shares ) by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of Restricted Shares you forfeited (or with respect to which
repayment is required) and the denominator of which is the number of Restricted Shares that
comprised the Award (reduced by the Tax Withholding Shares).

6.  Extended Absence, Retirement and Downsizing .

(a) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement, but subject to
Paragraph 6(b), in the event of the termination of your Employment (determined as described in
Section 1.2.19 of the Plan) by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement (as defined below), the
condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be waived with respect to any Restricted Shares that
were Outstanding but that had not yet become Vested immediately prior to such termination of
Employment (as a result of which such Restricted Shares shall become Vested), but all other terms
and conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to apply (including any applicable Transfer
Restrictions). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan or otherwise,  Retirement 
means termination of your Employment

5 

(other than for Cause) on or after the Date of Grant at a time when (i) (A) the sum of your
age plus years of service with the Firm (as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion)
equals or exceeds 60 and (B) you have completed at least 10 years of service with the Firm (as
determined by the Committee in its sole discretion) or, if earlier, (ii) (A) you have attained age
50 and (B) you have completed at least five years of service with the Firm (as determined by the
Committee in its sole discretion). Any termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or
Retirement shall not affect any applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions
shall continue to apply until the Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(c).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(e), your rights
in respect of your Outstanding Restricted Shares that become Vested in accordance with Paragraph
6(a) immediately shall be forfeited and such Restricted Shares immediately shall be returned to GS
Inc. if, prior to the original Vesting Date with respect to such Restricted Shares, you (i) form,
or acquire a 5% or greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any
Competitive Enterprise, or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to,
association as an officer, employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any
Competitive Enterprise. Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined by the
Committee in its discretion, this Paragraph 6(b) will not apply to your Outstanding Restricted
Shares if your termination of Employment by reason of Extended Absence or Retirement is
characterized by the Firm as  involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you
execute such a general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax
liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of Employment
initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like
or a termination for good reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of Employment or a
termination of Employment by  mutual agreement. 

(c) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Award Agreement and subject to your
executing such general waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax
liability, both as may be prescribed by the Firm or its designee, if your Employment is terminated
without Cause solely by reason of a  downsizing,  the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall
be waived with respect to your Restricted Shares that were Outstanding but that had not yet become
Vested immediately prior to such termination of Employment (as a result of which such Restricted
Shares shall become Vested), but all other conditions of this Award Agreement shall continue to
apply (including any applicable Transfer Restrictions). Whether or not your Employment is
terminated solely by reason of a  downsizing  shall be determined by the Firm in its sole
discretion. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including any termination claimed to be
a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good reason, will be solely by reason
of a  downsizing.  Your termination of Employment by reason of  downsizing  shall not affect any
applicable Transfer Restrictions, and any Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply until the
Transferability Date as provided in Paragraph 3(c).

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement, in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm
terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all of
the Transfer Restrictions and risks of forfeiture with respect to your Restricted Shares (whether
or not Vested) shall be removed.

8.  Dividends . You shall be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash
dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of your Restricted Shares, or, if the Restricted Shares are
held in escrow, the Firm will direct the transfer/paying agent to distribute the dividends to you
in respect of your Restricted Shares.

6 

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The Vesting and delivery of Shares and the removal of the Transfer Restrictions
are conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes in accordance with Section
3.2 of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may
require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, State, local, foreign or
other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection with the grant, vesting or delivery
of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through
payroll deduction or otherwise), (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of
Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award or (iii) in Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award. In addition, if you are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time
during and/or after the Firm s      fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you
to provide for a reserve in an amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection
with any actual, anticipated or potential tax consequences related to your separate employment
contracts by requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll
deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares
delivered to you pursuant to this Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no
event, however, shall any choice you may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give
you any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax
obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the
Restricted Shares are conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of this Award are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by
accepting this Award you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of
the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by
accepting this Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to
time concerning trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or
other awards (including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions
Involving GS Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and
confidential or proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect
of this Award in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with
respect to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to
the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation
or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand
and agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses
associated with this Award, including, without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this
Award Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

7 

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b), 4(c) and 4(e), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept
employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any
supranational or international organization, any self-regulatory organization, or any
agency, or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any other employer
determined by the Committee, and as a result of such employment, your continued holding of
your Outstanding Restricted Shares would result in an actual or perceived conflict of
interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9g)(i),
you notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a
time when you continue to hold Outstanding Restricted Shares;

then, in the case of Paragraph 9(g)(i) only, the condition set forth in Paragraph 4(a) shall be
waived with respect to any Restricted Shares you then hold that had not yet become Vested (as a
result of which such Restricted Shares shall become Vested) and, in the cases of Paragraphs 9(g)(i)
and 9(g)(ii), any Transfer Restrictions shall be removed, in each case as soon as practicable after
the Committee has received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section
1.3.5 of the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any
other person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree, by accepting this Award, that Restricted Shares hereby
are pledged to the Firm to secure its right to such Restricted Shares in the event you forfeit any
such Restricted Shares pursuant to the terms of the Plan or this Award Agreement. This Award, if
held in escrow, will not be delivered to you but will be held by an escrow agent for your benefit.
If an escrow agent is used, such escrow agent will also hold the Restricted Shares for the benefit
of the Firm for the purpose of perfecting its security interest.

(j) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment
while you continue to hold Outstanding Restricted Shares, you may be required to certify, from time
to time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. You
understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of any changes to your
address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are responsible for
obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive certification
materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by the deadline
specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your Outstanding
Restricted Shares in accordance with Paragraph 4(c)(iii).

10.  Right of Offset . The Firm may exercise its right of offset under Section 3.4 of
the Plan by conditioning the removal of the Transfer Restrictions on your satisfaction of your
obligations to the Firm in a manner deemed appropriate by the Committee, including by the
application of some or all of your Restricted Shares.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the

8 

Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4) of the Plan.
Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 13 or
as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, and without limiting Paragraph 3(c) hereof, the
limitations on transferability set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any
purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5
of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all
recipients of Restricted Shares may transfer some or all of their Restricted Shares (which shall
continue to be subject to the Transfer Restrictions until the Transferability Date) through a gift
for no consideration to any immediate family member (as determined pursuant to the procedures) or a
trust in which the recipient and/or the recipient s immediate family members in the aggregate have
100% of the beneficial interest (as determined pursuant to the procedures).

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

9 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

10 

Appendix A 

Treatment of      Year-End Restricted Shares (that are not Supplemental Shares) under the
Shareholders  Agreement.  Capitalized terms used in this Appendix A that are not defined in this
Appendix A, the Award Agreement or the Plan have the meanings as used or defined in the
Shareholders  Agreement; provided, however, for purposes of this Appendix A only, the term
 Restricted Shares  will exclude Supplemental Shares.

An event triggering the recalculation of the Covered Person s Covered Shares
shall be deemed to occur with respect to: 

any Restricted Shares with a scheduled
Vesting Date of December 31,      on the date upon which the first
installment of Shares will deliver under the      Year-End RSUs
( i.e. , generally the first trading day in a Window Period in January
    ) (the       RSU Delivery Date ), 

any Restricted Shares with a scheduled
Vesting Date of December 31,      on the date upon which the second
installment of Shares will deliver under the      Year-End RSUs
( i.e. , generally the first trading day in a Window Period in January
    ) (the       RSU Delivery Date ), and 

any Restricted Shares with a scheduled
Vesting Date of December 31,      on the date upon which the third
installment of Shares will deliver under the      Year-End RSUs
( i.e. , generally the first trading day in a Window Period in January
    ) (the       RSU Delivery Date ). 

Each of the      RSU Delivery Date, the      RSU Delivery Date and the      RSU
Delivery Date is referred to in this Appendix A as a  Trigger Date.  

As of each such Trigger Date, such Covered Person s Covered Shares shall be
increased by: 

the gross number of Restricted Shares for
such Trigger Date (determined before any deductions, including any
deductions for withholding taxes, fees or commissions), minus 

such gross number multiplied by the
Specified Tax Rate that would apply if the Covered Person had
received, on or around the Trigger Date, a delivery of Common Stock
underlying Year-End RSUs instead receiving a grant of Restricted
Shares. 

Until a Trigger Date, the Covered Person shall not be deemed to be the Sole
Beneficial Owner of the Restricted Shares relating to such Trigger Date (and
therefore until such Trigger Date such Shares shall not be counted toward the
satisfaction of the Transfer Restrictions). 

11 

</EX-10.52>

<EX-10.53>
 13
 y88213exv10w53.htm
 EX-10.53: FORM OF YEAR-END RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT (FULLY VESTED)

exv10w53 

Exhibit 10.53

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
     YEAR-END RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the      Year-End Restricted Stock
Award (this  Award ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated Stock Incentive
Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award . This Award is made up of the number of Restricted Shares ( Restricted
Shares ) specified on your Award Statement. A Restricted Share is a share of Common Stock (a
 Share ) delivered under the Plan that is subject to certain transfer restrictions and other terms
and conditions described in this Award Agreement. This Award is conditioned upon your granting to
the Firm the full power and authority to register the Restricted Shares in its or its designee s
name and authorizing the Firm or its designee to sell, assign or transfer any Restricted Shares in
the event of forfeiture of your Restricted Shares. Unless otherwise determined by the Firm, this
Award is conditioned upon your filing an election with the Internal Revenue Service within 30 days
of the grant of your Restricted Shares, electing pursuant to Section 83(b) of the Code to be taxed
currently on the fair market value of the Restricted Shares on the Date of Grant. This will result
in the recognition of taxable income on the Date of Grant equal to such fair market value (but will
not affect the Vesting of your Restricted Shares or the removal of the Transfer Restrictions).
  This Award is conditioned on your executing the related Signature Card and returning it to the
address designated on the Signature Card and/or by the method designated on the Signature Card by
the date specified, and is subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement, including, without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set
forth in Paragraph 12  .   By executing the related Signature Card (which, among other
things, opens the custody account referred to in Paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so
already), you will have confirmed your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement.   

3.  Certain Material Terms of Restricted Shares .

(a)  Vesting . All of your Restricted Shares shall be Vested on the Date of
Grant. When a Restricted Share is Vested, it means only that your continued active Employment is
not required in order for your Restricted Shares to become fully transferable without risk of
forfeiture. However, all other terms and conditions of this Award Agreement (including the
Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 3(c)) shall continue to apply to such Restricted
Shares, and failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in the forfeiture of all of your
rights in respect of the Restricted Shares and their return to GS Inc. and the cancellation of this
Award.

(b)  Date of Grant . The date on which your Restricted Shares will be
granted, subject to the conditions of this Award Agreement, is set forth on your Award Statement.
Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraph 2, the Restricted Shares shall be delivered
to an escrow, custody, brokerage or similar account, as approved or required by the Firm, and, except as provided in
Paragraphs 3(d), 6, 7 and 9(g), shall be subject to the Transfer Restrictions described in
Paragraph 3(c).

(c)  Transfer Restrictions; Escrow .

(i) Except as provided in Paragraphs 3(d), 7, and 9(g), Restricted Shares shall not be
permitted to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged, hypothecated,
fractionalized, hedged or otherwise disposed of (including through the use of any
cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by you (such restrictions
collectively referred to herein as the  Transfer Restrictions ) until the date specified on
your Award Statement as the  Transferability Date.  Any purported sale, exchange, transfer,
assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition in
violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void. If and to the extent Restricted
Shares are certificated, the Certificates representing such Restricted Shares are subject to
the restrictions in this Paragraph 3(c)(i), and GS Inc. shall advise its transfer agent to
place a stop order against such Restricted Shares. Within 30 Business Days after the
Transferability Date (or any other date described herein on which the Transfer Restrictions
are removed), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be taken, such steps as may be necessary
to remove the Transfer Restrictions in respect of any of such Restricted Shares that have
not been previously forfeited.

(ii) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of the Restricted Shares may be made
directly into an escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are determined by the
Firm, provided that any other conditions or restrictions on delivery of Shares required by
this Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your Restricted Shares, you have
agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other permitted beneficiary) that the Firm
may establish and maintain an escrow account for your benefit on such terms and conditions
as the Firm may deem necessary or appropriate (which may include, without limitation, your
(or your estate or other permitted beneficiary) executing any documents related to, and your
(or your estate or other permitted beneficiary) paying for any costs associated with, such
account). Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless otherwise determined by the Firm,
provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive authority to vote such Shares
while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares held in escrow may be accumulated
and shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its sole discretion.

(iii) If you are a party to the Amended and Restated Shareholders  Agreement (the
 Shareholders  Agreement ), your Restricted Shares will be considered  Covered Shares  for
purposes of Section 2.1(a) of the Shareholders  Agreement as described in Appendix A hereto.

(d)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement, if you
die prior to the Transferability Date with respect to your Restricted Shares, as soon as
practicable after the date of death and after such documentation as may be requested by the
Committee is provided to the Committee, the Transfer Restrictions then applicable to such
Restricted Shares shall be removed. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which
you may be permitted to specifically bequeath some or all of your Restricted Shares under
your will to an organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or
such other similar charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

2 

4.  Termination of Employment; Forfeiture of Restricted Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs
3(d), 7 and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer
actively employed with the Firm, the Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply to your
Restricted Shares that were Outstanding prior to your termination of Employment until the
Transferability Date in accordance with Paragraph 3(c).

(b) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(c), 4(d) and 4(f), and subject
to Paragraph 6(b):

(i) your rights in respect of all Restricted Shares shall terminate, such Shares
immediately shall be returned to GS Inc. and such portion of the Award immediately shall be
cancelled if you engage in  Competition  (as defined below) prior to the earlier of December
31,      or the date on which the Transfer Restrictions and risks of forfeiture with respect
to your Restricted Shares are removed following a Change in Control in accordance with
Paragraph 7 hereof;

(ii) your rights in respect of two-thirds of your Restricted Shares (which may be
rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall terminate, such Shares immediately shall be
returned to GS Inc. and such portion of the Award immediately shall be cancelled if you
engage in Competition on or after December 31,     , but prior to the earlier of December
31,      or the date on which the Transfer Restrictions and risks of forfeiture with respect
to your Restricted Shares are removed following a Change in Control in accordance with
Paragraph 7 hereof; and

(iii) your rights in respect of one-third of your Restricted Shares (which may be
rounded to avoid fractional Shares) shall terminate, such Shares immediately shall be
returned to GS Inc. and such portion of the Award immediately shall be cancelled if you
engage in Competition on or after December 31,     , but prior to the earlier of December
31,      or the date on which the Transfer Restrictions and risks of forfeiture with respect
to your Restricted Shares are removed following a Change in Control in accordance with
Paragraph 7 hereof.

For purposes of this Award Agreement,  Competition  means that you (i) form, or acquire a 5% or
greater equity ownership, voting or profit participation interest in, any Competitive Enterprise,
or (ii) associate in any capacity (including, but not limited to, association as an officer,
employee, partner, director, consultant, agent or advisor) with any Competitive Enterprise.

(c) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph
7, if:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in
any manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) (A) you, in any manner, directly or indirectly, (1) Solicit any Client to transact
business with a Competitive Enterprise or to reduce or refrain from doing any business with
the Firm, (2) interfere with or damage (or attempt to interfere with or damage) any
relationship between the Firm and any Client, (3) Solicit any person who is an employee of
the Firm to resign from the Firm or to apply for or accept employment with any Competitive
Enterprise or (4) on behalf of yourself or any person or Competitive Enterprise hire, or
participate in the hiring of, any Selected Firm Personnel or identify, or participate in the
identification of, Selected Firm Personnel for potential hiring, whether as an employee or
consultant or otherwise,

3 

or (B) Selected Firm Personnel are Solicited, hired or accepted
into partnership, membership or similar status (1) by a Competitive Enterprise that you
form, that bears your name, in which you are a partner, member or have similar status, or in
which you possess or control greater than a de minimis equity ownership, voting or profit
participation or (2) by any Competitive Enterprise
where you have, or are intended to have, direct or indirect managerial or supervisory
responsibility for such Selected Firm Personnel;

(iii) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms
or conditions for the expiration of the Transfer Restrictions with respect to this Award are
invalid;

(iv) GS Inc. fails to maintain the required  Minimum Tier 1 Capital Ratio  as defined
under Federal Reserve Board Regulations applicable to GS Inc. for a period of 90 consecutive
business days; or

(v) the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve or the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (the  FDIC ) makes a written recommendation under Title II (Orderly Liquidation
Authority) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act for the
appointment of the FDIC as a receiver of GS Inc. based on a determination that GS Inc. is
 in default  or  in danger of default, 

your rights in respect of the following Restricted Shares immediately shall be forfeited, such
Shares immediately shall be returned to GS Inc. and such portion of the Award immediately shall be
cancelled: (x) all of your Outstanding Restricted Shares if any of the events described in this
Paragraph 4(b) (the  Events ) occurs prior to the      RSU Delivery Date (as defined in Appendix
A); (y) two-thirds of your Outstanding Restricted Shares if any of the Events occurs on or after
the      RSU Delivery Date but prior to the      RSU Delivery Date (as defined in Appendix A); and
(z) one-third of your Outstanding Restricted Shares if any of the Events occurs on or after the
     RSU Delivery Date but prior to the      RSU Delivery Date (as defined in Appendix A). Shares
may be rounded to avoid fractional Shares.

For purposes of the foregoing, the term  Selected Firm Personnel  means: (A) any Firm employee or
consultant (1) with whom you personally worked while employed by the Firm, or (2) who at any time
during the year immediately preceding your termination of Employment with the Firm, worked in the
same division in which you worked; and (B) any Managing Director of the Firm.

(d) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph
7, your rights in respect of Outstanding Restricted Shares immediately shall be forfeited, and
such Shares immediately shall be returned to GS Inc., if, before the Transferability Date:

(i) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(ii) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation
you may have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in
connection with your Employment with the Firm or this Award, including, without limitation,
the Firm s notice period requirement applicable to you, any offer letter, employment
agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the
Firm are a party;

(iii) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed
to comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. On the

4 

Transferability Date, you shall be deemed to have represented and certified that you have
complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement; or

(iv) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity
or other property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in
respect of any Outstanding Restricted Shares.

(e) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand,
for any amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have
under an agreement referred to in Paragraph 4(d)(ii), regardless of whether such obligation arises
under a written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause
referred to in Paragraph 4(d)(i).

(f) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision
in Paragraphs 4(c) or 4(d), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee determines
that, during the Firm s      fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or marketing of any
product or service, or participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the purchase or
sale of any security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the risk
to the Firm or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly
analyzed such risk or where you have failed sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as
a result of such action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could
be expected to be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader
financial system, your rights in respect of your Outstanding Restricted Shares awarded as part of
this Award immediately shall be forfeited, such Shares immediately shall be returned to GS Inc. and
this Award shall be cancelled (and any dividends or other amounts paid or delivered to you in
respect of this Award shall be subject to repayment in accordance with, or in a manner similar to
the provisions described in, Paragraph 5).

5.  Repayment and Forfeiture .

(a) The provisions of Section 2.5.2 of the Plan (which require Grantees to repay to
the Firm the value of Restricted Shares, without reduction for related withholding tax, if the
Committee determines that all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement were not satisfied)
shall apply to this Award, except that if the condition that was not satisfied would have resulted
in the Transfer Restrictions not being removed, then the Fair Market Value of the Shares shall be
determined as of the Transferability Date (or any earlier date that the Transfer Restrictions were
removed).

(b) If and to the extent you forfeit any Restricted Shares hereunder or are required
to repay any amount in respect of a number of Restricted Shares pursuant to Paragraph 5(a), you
also will be required to pay to the Firm, immediately upon demand therefor, an amount
equal to the Fair Market Value (determined as of the Date of Grant) of the number of Shares that
were used to satisfy tax withholding for such Restricted Shares that are forfeited or subject to
repayment pursuant to Paragraph 5(a). Such repayment amount for Restricted Shares applied to tax
withholding will be determined by multiplying the number of Restricted Shares that were used to
satisfy withholding taxes related to this Award (the  Tax Withholding Shares ) by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of Restricted Shares you forfeited (or with respect to which
repayment is required) and the denominator of which is the number of Restricted Shares that
comprised the Award (reduced by the Tax Withholding Shares).

5 

6.  Certain Terminations of Employment .

(a) In the event of the termination of your Employment for any reason (determined as
described in Section 1.2.19 of the Plan), all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement shall
continue to apply (including any applicable Transfer Restrictions).

(b) Unless otherwise determined by the Committee in its discretion, Paragraph 4(b)
will not apply following termination of Employment that is characterized by the Firm as
 involuntary  or by  mutual agreement  other than for Cause and if you execute such a general
waiver and release of claims and an agreement to pay any associated tax liability, both as may be
prescribed by the Firm or its designee. No termination of Employment initiated by you, including
any termination claimed to be a  constructive termination  or the like or a termination for good
reason, will constitute an  involuntary  termination of Employment or a termination of Employment
by  mutual agreement. 

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement, in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm
terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all of
the Transfer Restrictions and risks of forfeiture with respect to your Restricted Shares shall be
removed.

8.  Dividends . You shall be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash
dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of your Restricted Shares, or, if the Restricted Shares are
held in escrow, the Firm will direct the transfer/paying agent to distribute the dividends to you
in respect of your Restricted Shares.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares and the removal of the Transfer Restrictions are
conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes in accordance with Section 3.2
of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may
require you to provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, State, local, foreign or
other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection with the grant, vesting or delivery
of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through
payroll deduction or otherwise), (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of
Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award or (iii) in Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award. In addition, if you are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time
during and/or after the Firm s      fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you
to provide for a reserve in an amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection
with any actual, anticipated or potential tax consequences related to your separate employment
contracts by requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll
deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares
delivered to you pursuant to this Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no
event, however, shall any choice you may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give
you any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax
obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the
Restricted Shares are conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders  agreement to which
other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party.

6 

(c) Your rights in respect of this Award are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by
accepting this Award you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of
the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by
accepting this Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to
time concerning trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or
other awards (including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions
Involving GS Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and
confidential or proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect
of this Award in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with
respect to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to
the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation
or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand
and agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses
associated with this Award, including, without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this
Award Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(c), 4(d) and 4(f), if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept
employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any
supranational or international organization, any self-regulatory organization, or any
agency, or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any other employer
determined by the Committee, and as a result of such employment, your continued holding of
your Outstanding Restricted Shares would result in an actual or perceived conflict of
interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii) following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i),
you notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a
time when you continue to hold Outstanding Restricted Shares;

then any Transfer Restrictions shall be removed as soon as practicable after the Committee has
received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section
1.3.5 of the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any
other person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree, by accepting this Award, that Restricted Shares hereby
are pledged to the Firm to secure its right to such Restricted Shares in the event you forfeit any
such Restricted Shares pursuant to the terms of the Plan or this Award Agreement. This Award, if
held

7 

in escrow, will not be delivered to you but will be held by an escrow agent for your benefit.
If an escrow agent is used, such escrow agent will also hold the Restricted Shares for the benefit
of the Firm for the purpose of perfecting its security interest.

(j) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment
while you continue to hold Outstanding Restricted Shares, you may be required to certify, from time
to time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. You
understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of any changes to your
address to
ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are responsible for obtaining
such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive certification materials,
and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by the deadline specified in
the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your Outstanding Restricted
Shares in accordance with Paragraph 4(d)(iii).

10.  Right of Offset . The Firm may exercise its right of offset under Section 3.4 of
the Plan by conditioning the removal of the Transfer Restrictions on your satisfaction of your
obligations to the Firm in a manner deemed appropriate by the Committee, including by the
application of some or all of your Restricted Shares.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 13 or
as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, and without limiting Paragraph 3(c) hereof, the
limitations on transferability set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any
purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5
of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all
recipients of Restricted Shares may transfer some or all of their Restricted Shares (which shall
continue to be subject to the Transfer Restrictions until the Transferability Date) through a gift
for no consideration to any immediate family member (as determined pursuant to the procedures) or a
trust in which the recipient and/or the recipient s immediate family members in the aggregate have
100% of the beneficial interest (as determined pursuant to the procedures).

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

8 

15.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

9 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

10 

Appendix A 

Treatment of      Year-End Restricted Shares under the Shareholders  Agreement.  Capitalized terms
used in this Appendix A that are not defined in this Appendix A, the Award Agreement or the Plan
have the meanings as used or defined in the Shareholders  Agreement.

With respect to all Restricted Shares that are awarded under the      Year-End
Restricted Stock Award, an event triggering the recalculation of the Covered
Person s Covered Shares shall be deemed to occur with respect to one-third of such
Restricted Shares on each of the dates upon which Shares will deliver under the     
Year-End RSUs ( i.e. , the first trading day in a Window Period in each of January
    , January      and January     , or such other date on which the relevant
installment of      Year-End RSUs shall be delivered) (such dates being referred to
as the       RSU Delivery Date,  the       RSU Delivery Date  and the       RSU
Delivery Date,  respectively, and each being referred to as a  Trigger Date ). 

As of each such Trigger Date, such Covered Person s Covered Shares shall be
increased by: 

the gross number of Restricted Shares for such Trigger Date (determined
before any deductions, including any deductions for withholding taxes, fees or
commissions), minus 

such gross number multiplied by the Specified Tax Rate that would apply if
the Covered Person had received, on or around the Trigger Date, a delivery of
Common Stock underlying Year-End RSUs instead receiving a grant of Restricted
Shares. 

Until a Trigger Date, the Covered Person shall not be deemed to be the Sole
Beneficial Owner of the Restricted Shares relating to such Trigger Date (and
therefore until such Trigger Date such Shares shall not be counted toward the
satisfaction of the Transfer Restrictions). 

11 

</EX-10.53>

<EX-10.54>
 14
 y88213exv10w54.htm
 EX-10.54: FORM OF YEAR-END SHORT-TERM RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD AGREEMENT

exv10w54 

Exhibit 10.54

THE GOLDMAN SACHS AMENDED AND RESTATED 
STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN 
     YEAR-END SHORT-TERM RESTRICTED STOCK AWARD 

This Award Agreement sets forth the terms and conditions of the      Year-End Short-Term
Restricted Stock Award (this  Award ) granted to you under The Goldman Sachs Amended and Restated
Stock Incentive Plan (the  Plan ).

1.  The Plan . This Award is made pursuant to the Plan, the terms of which are
incorporated in this Award Agreement. Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not
defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. References in
this Award Agreement to any specific Plan provision shall not be construed as limiting the
applicability of any other Plan provision.

2.  Award . This Award is made up of the number of Restricted Shares ( Short-Term Restricted Shares ) set forth on your Award Statement as       Year-End Short-Term
Restricted Stock.  A Restricted Share is a share of Common Stock (a  Share ) delivered under the
Plan that is subject to certain transfer restrictions and other terms and conditions described in
this Award Agreement. This Award is conditioned upon your granting to the Firm the full power and
authority to register the Short-Term Restricted Shares in its or its designee s name and
authorizing the Firm or its designee to sell, assign or transfer any Short-Term Restricted Shares
in the event of forfeiture of your Short-Term Restricted Shares. Unless otherwise determined by
the Firm, this Award is conditioned upon your filing an election with the Internal Revenue Service
within 30 days of the grant of your Short-Term Restricted Shares, electing pursuant to Section
83(b) of the Code to be taxed currently on the fair market value of the Short-Term Restricted
Shares on the Date of Grant. This will result in the recognition of taxable income on the Date of
Grant equal to such fair market value (but will not affect the Vesting of your Short-Term
Restricted Shares or the removal of the Transfer Restrictions).   This Award is conditioned on
your executing the related Signature Card and returning it to the address designated on the
Signature Card and/or by the method designated on the Signature Card by the date specified, and is
subject to all terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and this Award Agreement, including,
without limitation, the arbitration and choice of forum provisions set forth in Paragraph 12  .
  By executing the related Signature Card (which, among other things, opens the custody account
referred to in Paragraph 3(   b   ) if you have not done so already), you will have confirmed
your acceptance of all of the terms and conditions of this Award Agreement.   

3.  Certain Material Terms of Short-Term Restricted Shares .

(a)  Vesting . All of your Short-Term Restricted Shares shall be Vested on
the Date of Grant. When a Short-Term Restricted Share is Vested, it means only that your continued
active Employment is not required in order for your Short-Term Restricted Shares to become fully
transferable without risk of forfeiture. However, all other terms and conditions of this Award
Agreement (including the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 3(c)) shall continue to apply
to such Short-Term Restricted Shares, and failure to meet such terms and conditions may result in
the forfeiture of all of your rights in respect of the Short-Term Restricted Shares and their
return to GS Inc. and the cancellation of this Award.

(b)  Date of Grant . The date on which your Short-Term Restricted Shares will
be granted, subject to the conditions of this Award Agreement, is set forth on your Award
Statement. Except as provided in this Paragraph 3 and in Paragraph 2, the Short-Term Restricted
Shares shall be delivered to

an escrow, custody, brokerage or similar account, as approved or
required by the Firm, and, except as provided in Paragraphs  3(d),  6, 7 and  9(g), 
 shall be subject
to the Transfer Restrictions described in Paragraph 3(c).

(c)  Transfer Restrictions; Escrow .

(i) Except as provided in
 Paragraphs 3(d), 7, and 9(g), the Short-Term Restricted
Shares shall not be permitted to be sold, exchanged, transferred, assigned, pledged,
hypothecated, fractionalized, hedged or otherwise disposed of (including through the use of
any cash-settled instrument), whether voluntarily or involuntarily by you (such restrictions
collectively referred to herein as the  Transfer Restrictions ) until the date specified on
your Award Statement as the  Transferability Date.  Any purported sale, exchange, transfer,
assignment, pledge, hypothecation, fractionalization, hedge or other disposition in
violation of the Transfer Restrictions shall be void. If and to the extent Short-Term
Restricted Shares are certificated, the Certificates representing such Short-Term Restricted
Shares are subject to the restrictions in this Paragraph 3(c)(i), and GS Inc. shall advise
its transfer agent to place a stop order against such Short-Term Restricted Shares. Within
30 Business Days after the Transferability Date (or any other date described herein on which
the Transfer Restrictions are removed), GS Inc. shall take, or shall cause to be taken, such
steps as may be necessary to remove the Transfer Restrictions in respect of any of such
Short-Term Restricted Shares that have not been previously forfeited.

(ii) In the discretion of the Committee, delivery of the Short-Term Restricted Shares
may be made directly into an escrow account meeting such terms and conditions as are
determined by the Firm, provided that any other conditions or restrictions on delivery of
Shares required by this Award Agreement have been satisfied. By accepting your Short-Term
Restricted Shares, you have agreed on behalf of yourself (and your estate or other permitted
beneficiary) that the Firm may establish and maintain an escrow account for your benefit on
such terms and conditions as the Firm may deem necessary or appropriate (which may include,
without limitation, your (or your estate or other permitted beneficiary) executing any
documents related to, and your (or your estate or other permitted beneficiary) paying for
any costs associated with, such account). Any such escrow arrangement shall, unless
otherwise determined by the Firm, provide that (A) the escrow agent shall have the exclusive
authority to vote such Shares while held in escrow and (B) dividends paid on such Shares
held in escrow may be accumulated and shall be paid as determined by the Firm in its sole
discretion.

(iii) If you are a party to the Amended and Restated Shareholders  Agreement (the
 Shareholders  Agreement ), your Short-Term Restricted Shares will be subject to the
Shareholders  Agreement, except those Shares will not be considered  Covered Shares  for
purposes of Section 2.1(a) of the Shareholders  Agreement.

(d)  Death . Notwithstanding any other Paragraph of this Award Agreement, if you
die prior to the Transferability Date, as soon as practicable after the date of death and
after such documentation as may be requested by the Committee is provided to the Committee,
the Transfer Restrictions then applicable to such Short-Term Restricted Shares shall be
removed. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which you may be permitted to
specifically bequeath some or all of your Short-Term Restricted Shares under your will to an
organization described in Sections 501(c)(3) and 2055(a) of the Code (or such other similar
charitable organization as may be approved by the Committee).

2 

4.  Termination of Employment; Forfeiture of Short-Term Restricted Shares .

(a) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraphs
3(d), 7 and 9(g), if your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer
actively employed with the Firm, the Transfer Restrictions shall continue to apply to your
Short-Term Restricted Shares that were Outstanding prior to your termination of Employment until
the Transferability Date in accordance with Paragraph 3(c).

(b) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, and except as provided in Paragraph
7, your rights in respect of Outstanding Short-Term Restricted Shares immediately shall be
forfeited, and such Shares immediately shall be returned to GS Inc., if, before the Transferability
Date:

(i) you attempt to have any dispute under the Plan or this Award Agreement resolved in
any manner that is not provided for by Paragraph 12 or Section 3.17 of the Plan;

(ii) any event that constitutes Cause has occurred;

(iii) the Committee determines that you failed to meet, in any respect, any obligation
you may have under any agreement between you and the Firm, or any agreement entered into in
connection with your Employment with the Firm or this Award, including, without limitation,
the Firm s notice period requirement applicable to you, any offer letter, employment
agreement or any shareholders  agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the
Firm are a party;

(iv) you fail to certify to GS Inc., in accordance with procedures established by the
Committee, that you have complied, or the Committee determines that you in fact have failed
to comply, with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement. On the
Transferability Date, you shall be deemed to have represented and certified that you have
complied with all the terms and conditions of the Plan and this Award Agreement;

(v) as a result of any action brought by you, it is determined that any of the terms or
conditions for the expiration of the Transfer Restrictions with respect to this Award are
invalid; or

(vi) your Employment terminates for any reason or you otherwise are no longer actively
employed with the Firm and an entity to which you provide services grants you cash, equity
or other property (whether vested or unvested) to replace, substitute for or otherwise in
respect of any Outstanding Short-Term Restricted Shares.

(c) For the avoidance of doubt, failure to pay or reimburse the Firm, upon demand,
for any amount you owe to the Firm shall constitute (i) failure to meet an obligation you have
under an agreement referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(ii), regardless of whether such obligation arises
under a written agreement, and/or (ii) a material violation of Firm policy constituting Cause
referred to in Paragraph 4(b)(i).

(d) Unless the Committee determines otherwise, without limiting any other provision
in Paragraphs 4(b), and except as provided in Paragraph 7, if the Committee determines that, during
the Firm s      fiscal year, you participated in the structuring or marketing of any product or
service, or
participated on behalf of the Firm or any of its clients in the purchase or sale of any
security or other property, in any case without appropriate consideration of the risk to the Firm
or the broader financial system as a whole (for example, where you have improperly analyzed such
risk or where you have failed

3 

sufficiently to raise concerns about such risk) and, as a result of
such action or omission, the Committee determines there has been, or reasonably could be expected
to be, a material adverse impact on the Firm, your business unit or the broader financial system,
your rights in respect of your Outstanding Short-Term Restricted Shares awarded as part of this
Award immediately shall be forfeited, such Shares immediately shall be returned to GS Inc. and this
Award shall be cancelled (and any dividends or other amounts paid or delivered to you in respect of
this Award shall be subject to repayment in accordance with, or in a manner similar to the
provisions described in, Paragraph 5).

5.  Repayment and Forfeiture .

(a) The provisions of Section 2.5.2 of the Plan (which require Grantees to repay to
the Firm the value of Short-Term Restricted Shares, without reduction for related withholding tax,
if the Committee determines that all terms and conditions of this Award Agreement were not
satisfied) shall apply to this Award, except that if the condition that was not satisfied would
have resulted in the Transfer Restrictions not being removed, then the Fair Market Value of the
Shares shall be determined as of the Transferability Date (or any earlier date that the Transfer
Restrictions were removed).

(b) If and to the extent you forfeit any Short-Term Restricted Shares hereunder or
are required to repay any amount in respect of a number of Short-Term Restricted Shares pursuant to
Paragraph 5(a), you also will be required to pay to the Firm, immediately upon demand
therefor, an amount equal to the Fair Market Value (determined as of the Date of Grant) of the
number of Shares that were used to satisfy tax withholding for such Short-Term Restricted Shares
that are forfeited or subject to repayment pursuant to Paragraph 5(a). Such repayment amount for
Short-Term Restricted Shares applied to tax withholding will be determined by multiplying the
number of Short-Term Restricted Shares that were used to satisfy withholding taxes related to this
Award (the  Tax Withholding Shares ) by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of
Short-Term Restricted Shares you forfeited (or with respect to which repayment is required) and the
denominator of which is the number of Short-Term Restricted Shares that comprised the Award
(reduced by the Tax Withholding Shares).

6.  Termination of Employment . In the event of the termination of your Employment for
any reason (determined as described in Section 1.2.19 of the Plan), all terms and conditions of
this Award Agreement shall continue to apply (including any applicable Transfer Restrictions).

7.  Change in Control . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Award
Agreement, in the event a Change in Control shall occur and within 18 months thereafter the Firm
terminates your Employment without Cause or you terminate your Employment for Good Reason, all of
the Transfer Restrictions and risks of forfeiture with respect to your Short-Term Restricted Shares
shall be removed.

8.  Dividends . You shall be entitled to receive on a current basis any regular cash
dividend paid by GS Inc. in respect of your Short-Term Restricted Shares, or, if the Short-Term
Restricted Shares are held in escrow, the Firm will direct the transfer/paying agent to distribute
the dividends to you in respect of your Short-Term Restricted Shares.

9.  Certain Additional Terms, Conditions and Agreements .

(a) The delivery of Shares and the removal of the Transfer Restrictions are
conditioned on your satisfaction of any applicable withholding taxes in accordance with Section 3.2
of the Plan. To the extent permitted by applicable law, the Firm, in its sole discretion, may
require you to

4 

provide amounts equal to all or a portion of any Federal, State, local, foreign or
other tax obligations imposed on you or the Firm in connection with the grant, vesting or delivery
of this Award by requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through
payroll deduction or otherwise), (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of
Shares delivered to you pursuant to this Award or (iii) in Shares delivered to you pursuant to this
Award. In addition, if you are an individual with separate employment contracts (at any time
during and/or after the Firm s      fiscal year), the Firm may, in its sole discretion, require you
to provide for a reserve in an amount the Firm determines is advisable or necessary in connection
with any actual, anticipated or potential tax consequences related to your separate employment
contracts by requiring you to choose between remitting such amount (i) in cash (or through payroll
deduction or otherwise) or (ii) in the form of proceeds from the Firm s executing a sale of Shares
delivered to you pursuant to this Award (or any other Outstanding Awards under the Plan). In no
event, however, shall any choice you may have under the preceding two sentences determine, or give
you any discretion to affect, the timing of the delivery of Shares or the timing of payment of tax
obligations.

(b) If you are or become a Managing Director, your rights in respect of the
Short-Term Restricted Shares are conditioned on your becoming a party to any shareholders 
agreement to which other similarly situated employees of the Firm are a party.

(c) Your rights in respect of this Award are conditioned on the receipt to the full
satisfaction of the Committee of any required consents (as described in Section 3.3 of the Plan)
that the Committee may determine to be necessary or advisable.

(d) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.3 of the Plan, by
accepting this Award you have expressly consented to all of the items listed in Section 3.3.3(d) of
the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference.

(e) You understand and agree, in accordance with Section 3.22 of the Plan, by
accepting this Award you have agreed to be subject to the Firm s policies in effect from time to
time concerning trading in Shares and hedging or pledging Shares and equity-based compensation or
other awards (including, without limitation, the Firm s  Policies With Respect to Transactions
Involving GS Shares, Equity Awards and GS Options by Persons Affiliated with GS Inc. ), and
confidential or proprietary information, and to effect sales of Shares delivered to you in respect
of this Award in accordance with such rules and procedures as may be adopted from time to time with
respect to sales of such Shares (which may include, without limitation, restrictions relating to
the timing of sale requests, the manner in which sales are executed, pricing method, consolidation
or aggregation of orders and volume limits determined by the Firm). In addition, you understand
and agree that you shall be responsible for all brokerage costs and other fees or expenses
associated with this Award, including, without limitation, such brokerage costs or other fees or
expenses in connection with the sale of Shares delivered to you hereunder.

(f) GS Inc. may affix to Certificates representing Shares issued pursuant to this
Award Agreement any legend that the Committee determines to be necessary or advisable (including to
reflect any restrictions to which you may be subject under a separate agreement with GS Inc.). GS
Inc. may advise the transfer agent to place a stop order against any legended Shares.

(g) Without limiting the application of Paragraphs 4(b) and 4(d) if:

(i) your Employment with the Firm terminates solely because you resigned to accept
employment at any U.S. Federal, state or local government, any non-U.S. government, any
supranational or international organization, any self-regulatory organization, or any
agency,

5 

or instrumentality of any such government or organization, or any other employer
determined by the Committee, and as a result of such employment, your continued holding of
your Outstanding Short-Term Restricted Shares would result in an actual or perceived
conflict of interest ( Conflicted Employment  or

(ii)
following your termination of Employment other than described in Paragraph 9(g)(i),
you notify the Firm that you have accepted or intend to accept Conflicted Employment at a
time when you continue to hold Outstanding Short-Term Restricted Shares;

then any Transfer Restrictions shall be removed as soon as practicable after the Committee has
received satisfactory documentation relating to your Conflicted Employment.

(h) In addition to and without limiting the generality of the provisions of Section
1.3.5 of the Plan, neither the Firm nor any Covered Person shall have any liability to you or any
other person for any action taken or omitted in respect of this or any other Award.

(i) You understand and agree, by accepting this Award, that Short-Term Restricted
Shares hereby are pledged to the Firm to secure its right to such Short-Term Restricted Shares in
the event you forfeit any such Short-Term Restricted Shares pursuant to the terms of the Plan or
this Award Agreement. This Award, if held in escrow, will not be delivered to you but will be
held by an escrow agent for your benefit. If an escrow agent is used, such escrow agent will also
hold the Short-Term Restricted Shares for the benefit of the Firm for the purpose of perfecting its
security interest.

(j) You understand and agree that, in the event of your termination of Employment
while you continue to hold Outstanding Short-Term Restricted Shares, you may be required to
certify, from time to time, your compliance with all terms and conditions of the Plan and this
Award Agreement. You understand and agree that (i) it is your responsibility to inform the Firm of
any changes to your address to ensure timely receipt of the certification materials, (ii) you are
responsible for obtaining such certification materials by contacting the Firm if you do not receive
certification materials, and (iii) failure to return properly completed certification materials by
the deadline specified in the certification materials will result in the forfeiture of all of your
Outstanding Short-Term Restricted Shares in accordance with Paragraph 4(b)(iii).

10.  Right of Offset . The Firm may exercise its right of offset under Section 3.4 of
the Plan by conditioning the removal of the Transfer Restrictions on your satisfaction of your
obligations to the Firm in a manner deemed appropriate by the Committee, including by the
application of some or all of your Short-Term Restricted Shares.

11.  Amendment . The Committee reserves the right at any time to amend the terms and
conditions set forth in this Award Agreement, and the Board may amend the Plan in any respect;
provided that, notwithstanding the foregoing and Sections 1.3.2(f), 1.3.2(g) and 3.1 of the Plan,
no such amendment shall materially adversely affect your rights and obligations under this Award
Agreement without your consent; and provided further that the Committee expressly reserves its
rights to amend the Award Agreement and the Plan as described in Sections 1.3.2(h)(1), (2) and (4)
of the Plan. Any amendment of this Award Agreement shall be in writing.

12.  Arbitration; Choice of Forum . BY ACCEPTING THIS AWARD, YOU UNDERSTAND AND AGREE
THAT THE ARBITRATION AND CHOICE OF FORUM PROVISIONS SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, WHICH
ARE EXPRESSLY INCORPORATED HEREIN BY REFERENCE AND WHICH, AMONG OTHER THINGS, PROVIDE THAT ANY
DISPUTE, CONTROVERSY OR CLAIM BETWEEN THE FIRM AND YOU ARISING

6 

OUT OF OR RELATING TO OR CONCERNING
THE PLAN OR THIS AWARD AGREEMENT SHALL BE FINALLY SETTLED BY ARBITRATION IN NEW YORK CITY, PURSUANT
TO THE TERMS MORE FULLY SET FORTH IN SECTION 3.17 OF THE PLAN, SHALL APPLY.

13.  Non-transferability . Except as otherwise may be provided in this Paragraph 13 or
as otherwise may be provided by the Committee, and without limiting Paragraph 3(c) hereof, the
limitations on transferability set forth in Section 3.5 of the Plan shall apply to this Award. Any
purported transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions of this Paragraph 13 or Section 3.5
of the Plan shall be void. The Committee may adopt procedures pursuant to which some or all
recipients of Short-Term Restricted Shares may transfer some or all of their Short-Term Restricted
Shares (which shall continue to be subject to the Transfer Restrictions until the Transferability
Date) through a gift for no consideration to any immediate family member (as determined pursuant to
the procedures) or a trust in which the recipient and/or the recipient s immediate family members
in the aggregate have 100% of the beneficial interest (as determined pursuant to the procedures).

14.  Governing Law . THIS AWARD SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH
THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK, WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICT OF LAWS.

15.  Headings . The headings in this Award Agreement are for the purpose of convenience
only and are not intended to define or limit the construction of the provisions hereof.

7 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF , GS Inc. has caused this Award Agreement to be duly executed and delivered
as of the Date of Grant.

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.  

By:   

Name:   

Title:   

8 

</EX-10.54>

<EX-12.1>
 15
 y88213exv12w1.htm
 EX-12.1: STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIOS

exv12w1 

EXHIBIT 12.1 

THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC. and SUBSIDIARIES 

COMPUTATION OF RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES AND RATIOS OF EARNINGS TO 
COMBINED FIXED CHARGES AND PREFERRED STOCK DIVIDENDS 

1. Fixed charges include capitalized interest of $4 million, $70 million, $87 million, $70 million, $67 million, and $6 million for years ended December 2010, December 2009,
November 2008, November 2007, November 2006 and one month ended December 2008, respectively.

2. Earnings for the one month ended December 2008 were inadequate to cover total fixed charges and total combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends. The coverage
deficiencies for total fixed charges and total combined fixed charges and preferred stock dividends were $1.26 billion and $1.66 billion, respectively.

</EX-12.1>

<EX-21.1>
 16
 y88213exv21w1.htm
 EX-21.1: LIST OF SIGNIFICANT SUBSIDIARIES OF THE GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP, INC.

exv21w1 

EXHIBIT 21.1 

Significant Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

The following are significant subsidiaries of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. as of December 31, 2010
and the states or jurisdictions in which they are organized. Indentation indicates the principal
parent of each subsidiary. The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. owns, directly or indirectly, at least
99% of the voting securities of each subsidiary. The names of particular subsidiaries have been
omitted because, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, they would not constitute, as
of the end of the year covered by this report, a  significant subsidiary  as that term is defined
in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

State or  

Jurisdiction  

Name  
       
      of Entity  

The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.

Delaware 

Goldman, Sachs   Co.

New York 

Goldman Sachs Parentis Limited

Cayman Islands 

Goldman Sachs Services Limited

British Virgin Islands 

Goldman Sachs (UK) L.L.C.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Group Holdings (U.K.)

United Kingdom 

Scadbury UK Limited

United Kingdom 

Scadbury Funding Limited

Cayman Islands 

Scadbury II Assets Limited

Cayman Islands 

Killingholme Generation Limited

United Kingdom 

KPL Finance Limited

Cayman Islands 

Goldman Sachs Holdings (U.K.)

United Kingdom 

Goldman Sachs International

United Kingdom 

Goldman Sachs Financial Products I Limited

Cayman Islands 

Goldman Sachs Asset Management International

United Kingdom 

Forres LLC

Delaware 

Forres Investments Limited

Cayman Islands 

Shire UK Limited

United Kingdom 

GS Funding Management Limited

Cayman Islands 

GS Funding Investments Limited

Cayman Islands 

GS Financial Services L.P. (Del)

Delaware 

Landpro Investments (Delaware) L.L.C.

Delaware 

Baekdu Investments Limited

Cayman Islands 

JLQ LLC

Cayman Islands 

Jupiter Investment Co., Ltd.

Japan 

GK Blue Square

Japan 

Goldman Sachs Global Holdings L.L.C.

Delaware 

GS Asian Venture (Delaware) L.L.C.

Delaware 

GS Hony Holdings I Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

Triumph II Investments (Ireland) Limited

Ireland 

Tiger Strategic Investments Ltd

Mauritius 

Panda Investments Ltd

Mauritius 

GS Strategic Investments Limited

Mauritius 

GS (Asia) L.P.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs (Japan) Ltd.

British Virgin Islands 

Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.

Japan 

MLT Investments Ltd.

Mauritius 

State or  

Jurisdiction  

Name  
       
      of Entity  

Goldman Sachs Strategic Investments (Asia) L.L.C.

Delaware 

J. Aron Holdings, L.P.

Delaware 

J. Aron   Company

New York 

Goldman Sachs Asset Management, L.P.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Hedge Fund Strategies LLC

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs (Cayman) Holding Company

Cayman Islands 

Goldman Sachs (Asia) Corporate Holdings L.P.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Holdings (Hong Kong) Limited

Hong Kong 

Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs (Asia) Finance

Mauritius 

Goldman Sachs Financial Markets, L.P.

Delaware 

MTGLQ Investors, L.P.

Delaware 

GS Macro Investments LLC

Delaware 

GS Macro Investments II, LLC

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Lending Partners LLC

Delaware 

ELQ Investors, Ltd

United Kingdom 

GS European Opportunities Fund B.V.

Netherlands 

GS European Strategic Investment Group B.V.

Netherlands 

GS Mehetia LLC

Delaware 

Mehetia Holdings Inc.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Bank USA

New York 

Goldman Sachs Mortgage Company

New York 

William Street Equity LLC

Delaware 

William Street Funding Corporation

Delaware 

GSCP (DEL) INC.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Credit Partners L.P.

Bermuda 

Litton Mortgage Servicing, LLC

Utah 

Litton Loan Servicing LP

Delaware 

GSTM LLC

Delaware 

SLK LLC

New York 

Goldman Sachs Execution   Clearing, L.P.

New York 

GS Financial Services II, LLC

Delaware 

GS Funding Europe

United Kingdom 

GS Funding Europe I Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

Amagansett Funding Limited

Cayman Islands 

GS Funding Europe II Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

GS Investment Strategies, LLC

Delaware 

GSEM (DEL) INC.

Delaware 

GSEM (DEL) Holdings, L.P.

Delaware 

GSEM BERMUDA HOLDINGS, L.P.

Bermuda 

GSEM (DEL) LLC

Delaware 

GS Equity Markets, L.P.

Bermuda 

HULL TRADING ASIA LIMITED

Hong Kong 

Goldman Sachs LLC

Mauritius 

Goldman Sachs Venture LLC

Mauritius 

GSIP HOLDCO A LLC

Delaware 

Special Situations Investing Group, Inc.

Delaware 

GS Mortgage Derivatives, Inc.

Delaware 

GS India Holdings L.P.

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Investments (Mauritius) I Limited

Mauritius 

State or  

Jurisdiction  

Name  
       
      of Entity  

Goldman Sachs Ireland Group Holdings LLC

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Ireland LLC

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Ireland Group Limited

Ireland 

Goldman Sachs Ireland Holdings Limited

Ireland 

Goldman Sachs Bank (Europe) PLC

Ireland 

GSFS Investments I Corp.

Delaware 

GS Direct, L.L.C.

Delaware 

GS Direct Pharma Limited

Mauritius 

Commonwealth Annuity And Life Insurance Company

Massachusetts 

Goldman Sachs Specialty Lending Holdings, Inc. II

Delaware 

Goldman Sachs Specialty Lending CLO-I, Ltd.

Cayman Islands 

GS Power Holdings LLC

Delaware 

Mitsi Holdings LLC

Delaware 

Metro International Trade Services LLC

Delaware 

MLQ INVESTORS, L.P.

Delaware 

ENDEAVOR CAYMAN LTD.

Cayman Islands 

ENDEAVOR PRIVATE FUND CO., LTD.

Japan 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 17
 y88213exv23w1.htm
 EX-23.1: CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

exv23w1 

EXHIBIT 23.1 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 

We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3
(File Nos. 333-154173 and 333-159143) and on Form S-8 (File Nos. 333-80839, 333-42068, 333-106430
and 333-120802) of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. of our report dated February 28, 2011 relating to
the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which
appears in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K. We also consent to the incorporation by reference in
such Registration Statements of our report dated February 28, 2011 relating to Selected Financial
Data, which appears in Exhibit 99.1 of this Form 10-K.

/s/  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

New York, New York 
February 28, 2011

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 18
 y88213exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1: RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATIONS

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, Lloyd C. Blankfein, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 of The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ Lloyd C. Blankfein

Name:   
     Lloyd C. Blankfein  

Title:   
     Chief Executive Officer  

Date: February 28, 2011

CERTIFICATIONS 

I, David A. Viniar, certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 of The
Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.;

2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included
in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;

4. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:

(a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure
controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material
information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made
known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this
report is being prepared;

(b) Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles;

(c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures
and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and

(d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over
financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and

5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit
committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):

(a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and

(b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

/s/ David A. Viniar

Name:   
     David A. Viniar  

Title:   
     Chief Financial Officer  

Date: February 28, 2011

</EX-31.1>

<EX-32.1>
 19
 y88213exv32w1.htm
 EX-32.1: SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATIONS

exv32w1 

EXHIBIT 32.1 

Certification 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, the undersigned officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the
 Company ) hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2010 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as
applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

Dated: February 28, 2011  
     /s/ Lloyd C. Blankfein

Lloyd C. Blankfein  

Chief Executive Officer  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350 and is not
being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

Certification 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, the undersigned officer of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. (the
 Company ) hereby certifies that the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 2010 (the  Report ) fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d), as
applicable, of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that the information contained in the Report
fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.

Dated: February 28, 2011  
     /s/ David A. Viniar

David A. Viniar  

Chief Financial Officer  

The foregoing certification is being furnished solely pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350 and is not
being filed as part of the Report or as a separate disclosure document.

</EX-32.1>

<EX-99.1>
 20
 y88213exv99w1.htm
 EX-99.1: REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

exv99w1 

EXHIBIT 99.1 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
ON SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

To the Board of Directors and the Shareholders of 
The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.:

We have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements of The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. and
subsidiaries (the  Company ) at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, and for the fiscal years
ended December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009 and November 28, 2008 and for the one-month period ended
December 26, 2008 and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2010, and in our report dated February 28, 2011, we expressed unqualified
opinions thereon. We have also previously audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s consolidated statements of
financial condition at November 28, 2008, November 30, 2007 and November 24, 2006, and the related
consolidated statements of earnings, changes in shareholders  equity, cash flows and comprehensive
income for the years ended November 30, 2007 and November 24, 2006 (none of which are presented
herein), and we expressed unqualified opinions on those consolidated financial statements. In our
opinion, the information set forth in the selected financial data for the fiscal years ended
December 31, 2010, December 31, 2009, November 28, 2008, November 30, 2007 and November 24, 2006
and the income statement data and common share data for the one-month period ended December 26,
2008 appearing on page 204 in Part II, Item 8 of this Form 10-K, is fairly stated, in all material
respects, in relation to the consolidated financial statements from which it has been derived.

/s/  PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

New York, New York 
February 28, 2011

</EX-99.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 21
 gs-20101231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 22
 gs-20101231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 23
 gs-20101231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 24
 gs-20101231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 25
 gs-20101231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 26
 gs-20101231_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

