<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20090302_10-K_edgar_data_1067983_0001193125-09-042055_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>2556758</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>393899</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>656679</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>1217633</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>96</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>7</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-09-042055.hdr.sgml : 20090302
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20090302114328
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-09-042055
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		9
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20081231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20090302
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20090302

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001067983
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	FIRE, MARINE & CASUALTY INSURANCE [6331]
		IRS NUMBER:				470813844
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14905
		FILM NUMBER:		09646010

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1440 KIEWIT PLZ
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68131
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4023461400

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1440 KIEWIT PLAZA
		CITY:			OMAHA
		STATE:			NE
		ZIP:			68131

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NBH INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980810

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 Sf3YJiyMSgkXIukxZlbJqBnuh8j0Yxu/rzVN8l1gFOBUfCkt9Um2JUGoBXt92/fh
 /2KVBdjyaAmH/JwnbaiYug==

 0001193125-09-042055.txt : 20090302

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549        FORM 10-K        ANNUAL REPORT        PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934       For the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2008      Commission file number 001-14905       BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its
charter)        
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code (402) 346-1400        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:        

Title of each class    
     
     Name of each exchange on which registered     
 
  Class A Common Stock, $5.00 Par Value  
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
 
  Class B Common Stock, $0.1667 Par Value  
     
  New York Stock Exchange   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE       Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
Act.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes         No             Indicate by check mark
whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90
days.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.:       

Large accelerated filer       
      
      Accelerated filer       
      
  Non-accelerated filer       
     
  Smaller reporting company        
    Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act).    Yes         No           State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of June 30, 2008: $126,497,000,000*      Indicate number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant s classes of common stock:       
     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE        

Document    
      
     Incorporated In     
 
  Proxy Statement for Registrant s Annual Meeting to be held May 2, 2009  
      
  Part III   

*  
  This aggregate value is computed at the last sale price of the common stock on June 30, 2008. It does not include the value of Class A Common Stock (390,841 shares) and
Class B Common Stock (3,416,963 shares) held by Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant and members of their immediate families, some of whom may not constitute  affiliates  for purpose of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

Table of Contents  

      Table of Contents        

Page No.    

Part I   

Item 1.    
     
      Business      
      
  1   
 
     Item 1A.    
     
      Risk Factors      
      
  18   
 
     Item 1B.    
     
      Unresolved Staff Comments      
      
  20   
 
     Item 2.    
     
      Description of Properties      
      
  20   
 
     Item 3.    
     
      Legal Proceedings      
      
  23   
 
     Item 4.    
     
      Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders      
      
  26   

Part II   

Item 5.    
     
      Market for Registrant s Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters      
      
  26   
 
     Item 6.    
     
      Selected Financial Data for the Past Five Years      
      
  27   
 
     Item 7.    
     
      Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations      
      
  28   
 
     Item 7A.    
     
      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk      
      
  55   
 
     Item 8.    
     
      Financial Statements and Supplementary Data      
      
  56   

Consolidated Balance Sheets  December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007    
      
  57   

Consolidated Statements of Earnings  Year Ended December 31, 2008, December 
31, 2007, and December 31, 2006     
      
  58   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  Year Ended December 31, 2008, December 
31, 2007, and December 31, 2006    
      
  59   

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholder s Equity and Comprehensive Income  Year Ended December 31,
 2008, December 31, 2007, and December 31, 2006     
      
  60   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements     
      
  61   
 
     Item 9.    
     
      Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial  Disclosure    
      
  92   
 
     Item 9A.    
     
      Controls and Procedures      
      
  92   
 
     Item 9B.    
     
      Other Information      
      
  92   

Part III   

Item 10.    
     
      Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance      
      
  93   
 
     Item 11.    
     
      Executive Compensation     
      
  93   
 
     Item 12.    
     
      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

93   
 
     Item 13.    
     
      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence      
      
  93   
 
     Item 14.    
     
      Principal Accountant Fees and Services      
      
  93   

Part IV   

Item 15.    
     
      Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules Index      
      
  94   

Signatures    
      
  95   
 
     Exhibit Index    
      
  99   

Table of Contents  

    Part I        

Item 1.   
   Business         Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
( Berkshire,   Company  or  Registrant ) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities. The most important of these are insurance businesses conducted on both a primary
basis and a reinsurance basis. Berkshire also owns and operates a large number of other businesses engaged in a variety of activities, as identified herein. Berkshire is domiciled in the state of Delaware, and its corporate headquarters is located
in Omaha, Nebraska.      Berkshire s operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are essentially no
centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing, legal or human resources) and there is minimal involvement by Berkshire s corporate headquarters in the day-to-day business activities of the operating
businesses. Berkshire s corporate office management participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the operating
businesses.       Insurance and Reinsurance Businesses       Berkshire s insurance and reinsurance business activities are conducted through over 60 domestic and foreign-based insurance entities. Berkshire s insurance businesses provide insurance and reinsurance of
property and casualty risks world-wide and also reinsure life, accident and health risks world-wide.      In primary (or direct) insurance
activities, the insurer assumes the risk of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks. Such risks may relate to property, casualty (or liability), life, accident, health, financial or other perils that may arise from
an insurable event. In reinsurance activities, the reinsurer assumes defined portions of risks that other primary insurers or reinsurers have assumed in their own insuring activities.      Reinsurance contracts are normally classified as treaty or facultative contracts. Treaty reinsurance refers to reinsurance coverage for all or a portion
of a specified class of risks ceded by the primary insurer, while facultative reinsurance involves coverage of specific individual risks. Reinsurance contracts are generally classified as quota-share or excess. Under quota-share (proportional or
pro-rata) reinsurance, the reinsurer shares proportionally in the original premiums, losses and expenses of the primary insurer or reinsurer. Excess (or non-proportional) reinsurance provides for the indemnification of the primary insurer or
reinsurer for all or a portion of the loss in excess of an agreed upon amount or  retention.  Both quota-share and excess reinsurance may provide for aggregate limits of indemnification.      Except for regulatory considerations, there are virtually no barriers to entry into the insurance and reinsurance industry. Competitors may be domestic
or foreign, as well as licensed or unlicensed. The number of competitors within the industry is not known. Insurers and reinsurers compete on the basis of reliability, financial strength and stability, ratings, underwriting consistency, service,
business ethics, price, performance, capacity, policy terms and coverage conditions.      Insurers and reinsurers based in the United States
are subject to regulation by their states of domicile and by those states in which they are licensed or write policies on a non-admitted basis. The primary focus of regulation is to assure that insurers are financially solvent and that policyholder
interests are otherwise protected. States establish minimum capital levels for insurance companies and establish guidelines for permissible business and investment activities. States have the authority to suspend or revoke a company s authority
to do business, as conditions warrant. States regulate the payment of dividends by insurance companies to their shareholders. Dividends and capital distributions of extraordinary amounts are subject to prior regulatory approval.      Insurers may market, sell and service insurance policies in the states that they are licensed. These insurers are referred to as admitted insurers.
Admitted insurers are generally required to obtain regulatory approval of their policy forms and premium rates. Non-admitted insurance markets have developed to provide insurance that is otherwise unavailable from the admitted insurance markets of a
state. Non-admitted insurance, often referred to as  excess and surplus  lines, is procured by either state-licensed surplus lines brokers who place risks with insurers not licensed in that state or by insureds  direct procurement
from non-admitted insurers. Non-admitted insurance is subject to considerably less regulation with respect to policy rates and forms. Reinsurers are normally not required to obtain regulatory approval of premium rates and policy forms.   
  The insurance regulators of every state participate in the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ). The NAIC adopts forms,
instructions and accounting procedures for use by U.S. insurers and reinsurers in preparing and filing  
       
   1   

Table of Contents  

annual statutory financial statements. However, an insurer s state of domicile has ultimate authority over these matters. In addition to its activities
relating to the annual statement, the NAIC develops or adopts statutory accounting principles, model laws, regulations and programs for use by its members. Such matters deal with regulatory oversight of solvency, compliance with financial regulation
standards and risk-based capital reporting requirements.      Berkshire s insurance companies maintain capital strength at exceptionally
high levels. This strength differentiates Berkshire s insurance companies from their competitors. Collectively, the aggregate statutory surplus of Berkshire s U.S. based insurers was approximately $51 billion at December 31, 2008. All
of Berkshire s major insurance subsidiaries are rated AAA by Standard   Poor s Corporation, the highest Financial Strength Rating assigned by Standard   Poor s, and nearly all are rated A++ (superior) by A.M. Best
with respect to their financial condition and operating performance.      The insurance industry experienced severe losses from the
September 11, 2001 terrorist attack. On November 26, 2002, the Terrorism Risk Insurance Act of 2002, which established within the Department of the Treasury a Terrorism Insurance Program ( Program ) for commercial property and
casualty insurers by providing Federal reinsurance of insured terrorism losses was signed into law. In December 2005, the Program was extended to December 31, 2007 through the passage of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Extension Act of 2005 and in
December 2007, the Program was further extended to December 31, 2014 through the passage of the Terrorism Risk Insurance Program Reauthorization Act of 2007. Hereinafter the 2002, 2005 and 2007 Acts are collectively referred to as TRIA. Under
TRIA, the Department of the Treasury is charged with certifying  acts of terrorism  as having been a terrorist act undertaken on behalf of a foreign person or interest which resulted in an insured loss in excess of $5 million. TRIA
currently establishes that the industry insured loss for a certified event must exceed $100 million. To be eligible for Federal reinsurance, insurers must make available insurance coverage for acts of terrorism, by providing policyholders with clear
and conspicuous notice of the amount of premium that will be charged for this coverage and of the Federal share of any insured losses resulting from any act of terrorism. Assumed reinsurance is specifically excluded from TRIA participation.
Beginning in 2006, TRIA also excluded certain forms of direct insurance (such as commercial auto, burglary, theft, surety and certain professional liability lines). Terrorism exclusions that were contained within reinsurance contracts remain in
effect. Reinsurers are not required to offer terrorism coverage and are not eligible for Federal reinsurance of terrorism losses.      In the
event of a certified act of terrorism, the Federal government will reimburse insurers (conditioned on their satisfaction of policyholder notification requirements) for 85% of their insured losses in excess of a company deductible. Under the December
2007 Program extension, the deductible is 20% of the aggregate direct subject earned premium for relevant commercial lines business in the immediately preceding calendar year. Berkshire s aggregate deductible in 2009 will be approximately $425
million. There is also an aggregate limit of $100 billion on the amount of the Federal government coverage for each TRIA year.      For many
years, the insurance industry has been subject to claims arising from exposure to asbestos. The magnitude of such losses has caused many manufacturers to file for protection under the U.S. Bankruptcy Code. In recent years, increasing numbers of
claims have been filed, including claims based upon exposure to asbestos, even though no related illness has been identified. Consequently, the U.S. Congress has periodically introduced legislation to assure that resources are available to indemnify
claimants suffering from asbestos-related illnesses and to manage the overall cost of those claims. To date, no legislation has passed. It is highly uncertain as to whether or not any legislation will be enacted and, if enacted, how the provisions
of such laws will affect Berkshire.      Regulation of the insurance industry outside of the United States is subject to the differing laws and
regulations of each country in which the insurer has operations or writes premiums. Some jurisdictions impose complex regulatory requirements on insurance businesses while other jurisdictions impose fewer requirements. In certain foreign countries,
reinsurers are required to be licensed by governmental authorities. These licenses may be subject to modification, suspension or revocation dependent on such factors as amount and types of reserves and minimum capital and solvency tests. The
violation of regulatory requirements may result in fines, censures and/or criminal sanctions in various jurisdictions. Berkshire subsidiaries have historically provided insuring capacity to several syndicates at Lloyd s of London. Such capacity
entitles Berkshire to a share of the risks and rewards of the activities of the syndicates in proportion to the amount of capacity provided. This business is subject to regulation by the U.K. s Financial Services Authority which maintains
comprehensive rules and regulations covering the legal, financial and operating activities of managing agents and syndicates.        Berkshire s insurance underwriting operations are comprised of the following sub-groups: (1) GEICO and its subsidiaries, (2) General Re and its subsidiaries, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group and
(4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Except for certain retroactive reinsurance products that generate significant amounts of up-front premiums along with estimated    
       
   2   

Table of Contents  

claims   expected to be paid over very long periods of time creating  float  (see Investments section below), Berkshire expects to 
 achieve a net underwriting profit over time and to reject inadequately priced risks. Underwriting profit is earned premiums less associated incurred losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting and policy acquisition expenses. Underwriting
profit does not include investment income earned from  float  produced by the timing of collecting premiums and paying losses, loss adjustment expenses and underwriting and policy acquisition expenses. Additional information related to
each of these four underwriting groups follows.         GEICO  GEICO is headquartered in Chevy Chase, Maryland and its principal
insurance subsidiaries include: Government Employees Insurance Company, GEICO General Insurance Company, GEICO Indemnity Company and GEICO Casualty Company. These companies primarily offer private passenger automobile insurance to individuals in 49
states and the District of Columbia. In addition, GEICO insures motorcycles, all-terrain vehicles, recreational vehicles and small commercial fleets and acts as an agent for other insurers who offer homeowners, boat and life insurance to
individuals. GEICO markets its policies primarily through direct response methods in which applications for insurance are submitted directly to the companies via the Internet, by telephone or through the mail.      GEICO competes for private passenger auto insurance customers with other companies that sell directly to the customer as well as with companies that use
a traditional agency sales force. The automobile insurance business is highly competitive in the areas of price and service. Some insurance companies exacerbate price competition by selling their products for a period of time at less than adequate
rates. This arises as a result of underestimating ultimate claim costs and/or overestimating the amount of investment income expected to be earned from the cash flow generated as a result of premiums being received before claims are paid. GEICO will
not knowingly follow that strategy.      As a result of an aggressive advertising campaign and competitive rates, new business sales and
voluntary policies-in-force have increased every year since 2004. Voluntary auto policies-in-force have increased about 63% over the past five years. GEICO is currently the third largest private passenger auto insurer in the United States in terms
of premium volume. According to A.M. Best data for 2007, the five largest automobile insurers have a combined 48.8% market share, with GEICO s share being 7.1%. Seasonal variations in GEICO s insurance business are not significant.
However, extraordinary weather conditions or other factors may have a significant effect upon the frequency or severity of automobile claims.      Private passenger auto insurance is stringently regulated by state insurance departments. As a result, it is difficult for insurance companies to differentiate their products. Competition for preferred-risk private passenger automobile
insurance, which is substantial, tends to focus on price and level of customer service provided. Price tends to be the primary focus for other risks. GEICO s cost-efficient direct response marketing methods and emphasis on customer satisfaction
enable it to offer competitive rates and value to customers. GEICO primarily uses its own claims staff to manage and settle claims.      The
name and reputation of GEICO is a material asset and management protects it and other service marks through appropriate registrations.       General Re  Berkshire acquired General Re Corporation ( General Re ) in 1998. General Re was established in 1980 to serve as the holding company of General Reinsurance Corporation and its affiliates. General Re
affiliates also include K lnische R ckversicherungs Gesellschaft AG ( Cologne Re ), a major international reinsurer based in Germany. General Re held a 95% ownership interest in Cologne Re at the end of 2008 and expects to
acquire the remaining outstanding shares in 2009. General Re subsidiaries currently conduct business activities globally in 55 cities and provide insurance and reinsurance coverages throughout the world. General Re provides property/casualty
insurance and reinsurance, life/health reinsurance and other reinsurance intermediary and risk management, underwriting management and investment management services. General Re is one of the largest reinsurers in the world based on premium
volume and shareholder capital.        Property/Casualty Reinsurance        General Re s property/casualty reinsurance business in North America is conducted through General Reinsurance Corporation, domiciled in Delaware and licensed in the District of Columbia and all states but Hawaii
where it is an accredited reinsurer. Property/casualty operations in North America are headquartered in Stamford, Connecticut, and are also conducted through 16 branch offices in the U.S. and Canada. Reinsurance activities are marketed directly to
clients without involving a broker or intermediary. Coverages are written primarily on an excess basis and under treaty and facultative contracts. In 2008, approximately 30% of net written premiums in North America related to casualty reinsurance
coverages and 52% related to property reinsurance coverages.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

   General Re s property/casualty business in North America also includes a few smaller specialty
insurers (primarily the General Star and Genesis companies domiciled in Connecticut, North Dakota and Ohio). These specialty insurers underwrite primarily liability and workers  compensation coverages on an excess and surplus basis and excess
insurance for self-insured programs. In 2008, the specialty insurers represented approximately 18% of General Re s North American property/casualty net written premiums.      General Re s international property/casualty reinsurance business operations are conducted through internationally-based subsidiaries on a direct
basis (via Cologne Re as well as several other General Re subsidiaries in 25 countries) and through brokers (primarily via Faraday, which owns the managing agent of Syndicate 435 at Lloyd s of London and provides capacity and participates in
the results of Syndicate 435). Through Faraday, General Re participates in 100% of the results of Lloyd s Syndicate 435. Coverages are written on both a quota-share and excess basis for multiple lines of property, aviation and casualty
reinsurance coverage. In 2008, international-based property/casualty operations principally wrote direct reinsurance in the form of treaties with lesser amounts written on a facultative basis.        Life/Health Reinsurance        Through a subsidiary
of Cologne Re, life, health, long-term care and disability reinsurance coverages are written on an individual and group basis. Most of this business is written on a proportional treaty basis, with the exception of the U.S. group health and
disability business which is predominately written on an excess treaty basis. Lesser amounts of life and disability business are written on a facultative basis. The life/health business is marketed on a direct basis. In 2008, approximately 43% of
life/health net premiums were written in the United States, 29% were written in Western Europe and the remaining 28% were written throughout the rest of the world.       Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group  The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group ( BHRG ) operates from offices located in Stamford, Connecticut. Business activities are conducted through a group of
subsidiary companies, led by National Indemnity Company ( NICO ) and Columbia Insurance Company ( Columbia ). BHRG provides principally excess and quota-share reinsurance to other property and casualty insurers and reinsurers.
The level of BHRG s underwriting activities often fluctuates significantly from year to year depending on the perceived level of price adequacy in specific insurance and reinsurance markets.      For many years BHRG has written catastrophe excess of loss treaty reinsurance contracts. BHRG also writes individual policies for primarily excess
property risks on both a primary and facultative reinsurance basis, referred to as  individual risk,  which includes policies covering terrorism, natural catastrophe and aviation risks. A catastrophe excess policy provides protection to
the counterparty from the accumulation of primarily property losses arising from a single loss event or series of events. Catastrophe and individual risk policies may provide significant amounts of indemnification per contract and a single loss
event may produce losses under a number of contracts.      BHRG generally does not cede risks assumed under catastrophe excess reinsurance
contracts or individual risk contracts to third parties due to, in part, to perceived uncertainties in recovering amounts from other reinsurers that are financially weaker. As a result, catastrophe and individual risk business produces extremely
volatile periodic underwriting results. The extraordinary financial strength of NICO and Columbia are believed to be the primary reasons why BHRG has become a major provider of such coverages.      BHRG has entered into several retroactive reinsurance contracts over the past five years. Retroactive reinsurance contracts afford protection to ceding
companies against the adverse development of claims arising under policies issued in prior years. Coverage under such contracts is usually provided on an excess basis and is normally subject to a large aggregate limit of indemnification. Significant
amounts of environmental and latent injury claims may arise under the contracts. In March 2007, an agreement became effective between NICO and Equitas, a London based entity established to reinsure and manage the 1992 and prior years  non-life
liabilities of the Names or Underwriters at Lloyd s of London. Under the agreement, NICO is providing up to $7 billion of new excess reinsurance to Equitas.      In BHRG s retroactive reinsurance business, the concept of time-value-of-money is an important element in establishing prices and contract terms, since the payment of losses under the insurance contracts are
often expected to occur over lengthy periods of time. Losses payable under the contracts are normally expected to exceed premiums and therefore, produce underwriting losses. This business is accepted, in part, because of the large amounts of
policyholder funds ( float ) generated for investment, the economic benefit of which will be reflected through investment income in future periods.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

   BHRG also underwrites traditional non catastrophe insurance and reinsurance coverages, referred to as
multi-line business. The type and volume of such business conducted is dependent on changes in market conditions, including changes in prevailing premium rates and coverage terms as perceived by management, and therefore can change rapidly. In 2004
and 2005, BHRG increased its overall volume of aviation and workers  compensation business. In 2006 and in 2007, volume from the aviation and workers  compensation programs declined but was largely offset by increases from property
business written on a quota-share basis and new property program business. For the five-year period beginning January 1, 2008, BHRG is assuming a 20% quota-share of property and casualty business underwritten by Swiss Reinsurance Company and
its subsidiaries. This reinsurance contract represented over 40% of the premiums written by BHRG in 2008. BHRG has negotiated the acquisition of certain property and casualty insurance businesses in run-off, including the North American insurance
subsidiaries of Converium Holdings AG, which were acquired in 2006 and the reinsurance subsidiaries of ING Groep N.V. which were acquired in 2008.      In December 2007, BHRG formed a monoline financial guarantee insurance company, Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corporation ( BHAC ). BHAC commenced operations during the first quarter of 2008 and is licensed in 49 states. As of
December 31, 2008, BHAC had approximately $1 billion in capital and has received the highest rating available from two credit rating agencies. BHRG is pursuing opportunities to write financial guarantee insurance on municipal bonds.   
   Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group  The Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group is a collection of primary insurance operations that provide a wide
variety of insurance coverages to insureds located principally in the United States. NICO and certain affiliates underwrite motor vehicle and general liability insurance to commercial enterprises on both an admitted and excess and surplus basis.
This business is written nationwide primarily through insurance agents and brokers and is based in Omaha, Nebraska.      U.S. Investment
Corporation ( USIC ), through its three subsidiaries led by U.S. Liability Insurance Company, is a specialty insurer that underwrites commercial, professional and personal lines of insurance on an admitted and excess and surplus basis.
Policies are marketed in all 50 states and the District of Columbia through wholesale insurance agents. USIC companies underwrite and market approximately 95 distinct specialty property and casualty insurance products.      In 2005, Berkshire acquired Medical Protective Corporation ( MedPro ) which is based in Fort Wayne, Indiana. Through its subsidiary, the
Medical Protective Company, MedPro is a national leader in primary medical professional liability coverage and risk solutions to physicians, dentists, professional corporations and healthcare facilities. As one of the nation s first providers
of medical professional liability insurance, MedPro has provided insurance coverage to healthcare providers for over 100 years. MedPro s insurance policies are distributed through a nationwide network of employee market managers and appointed
agents.      In 2006, Berkshire acquired Applied Underwriters, Inc.
( Applied ), a leading provider of payroll and insurance services to small and medium-sized employers. Applied, through its subsidiaries, including two workers  compensation insurance companies, principally markets SolutionOne     , a product that bundles a variety of related insurance coverages and business services into a seamless package that is designed to reduce the risks and remove the burden of administrative and
regulatory requirements faced by small to medium-sized employers. The buyer of SolutionOne      receives an integrated product that is higher in quality and more cost effective than traditional
multi-provider solutions.      In 2007, Berkshire acquired Boat America Corporation, which owns Seaworthy Insurance Company and controls the
Boat Owners Association of the United States (collectively  BoatU.S. ). BoatU.S. provides insurance, safety and other services to recreational watercraft owners and enthusiasts.      Other insurance operations include several companies referred to as the  Homestate Companies,  based in California, Colorado and Nebraska and
with branch offices in several other states. These companies market various commercial coverages for standard risks to insureds in their state of domicile and a number of other states. Also included is Central States Indemnity Company of Omaha
located in Omaha, Nebraska, which provides credit and income protection insurance and related services marketed primarily to credit and debit card holders nationwide. The Kansas Bankers Surety Company is an insurer of primarily crime, fidelity,
errors and omissions, officers  and directors  liability and related insurance coverages directed toward small and medium-sized banks throughout the Midwest United States.         
   5   

Table of Contents  

    Property and casualty loss reserves       Berkshire s property and casualty insurance companies establish reserves for the estimated unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to claims occurring on or before the balance sheet date. Such
estimates include provisions for reported claims or case estimates, provisions for incurred-but-not-reported ( IBNR ) claims and legal and administrative costs to settle claims. The estimates of unpaid losses and amounts recoverable under
reinsurance are established and continually reviewed by using a variety of actuarial, statistical and analytical techniques. Reference is made to  Critical Accounting Policies,  included in Item 7 of this Report.      The table on the following page presents the development of Berkshire s consolidated net unpaid losses for property/casualty contracts from 1998
through 2008. Data in the table related to acquisitions is included from the acquisition date forward.      The first section of the table
reconciles the estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses recorded at the balance sheet date for each of the indicated years from the gross liability reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheet to the net amount, after
reductions for amounts recoverable under ceded reinsurance, deferred charges on retroactive reinsurance contracts and loss reserve discounts.      Certain workers  compensation loss reserves are discounted for both statutory and GAAP reporting purposes at an interest rate of 4.5% per annum for claims occurring before 2003 and at 1% per annum for claims occurring after
2002. In addition, deferred charges are recorded as assets at the inception of retroactive reinsurance contracts for the excess of the unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses over the premiums received. The deferred charges are subsequently
amortized over the expected claim payment period. Deferred charge amortization and loss reserve discount accretion are recorded as components of insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred.      The second section of the table shows the re-estimated net unpaid losses, net of reserve discounts and deferred charges, based on experience as of the
end of each succeeding year. The re-estimated amount reflects the effect of loss payments and re-estimation of remaining unpaid reserves. The line labeled  cumulative deficiency (redundancy)  represents the aggregate increase (decrease) in
the initial estimates from the original balance sheet date through December 31, 2008. These amounts have been reported in earnings over time as components of losses and loss adjustment expenses and include accumulated reserve discount accruals
and deferred charge amortization.      The redundancies or deficiencies shown in each column should be viewed independently of the other
columns because redundancies or deficiencies arising in earlier years may be included as components of redundancies or deficiencies in the more recent years. Liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts are treated as occurrences in
the year the contract was entered into, as opposed to when the underlying losses actually occurred, which is prior to the contract date. Due to the significance of the deferred charges and reserve discounts, the cumulative changes in such balances
which are included in the cumulative deficiency/redundancy amounts are also provided.      The third part of the table shows the cumulative
amount of net losses and loss adjustment expenses paid with respect to recorded net liabilities as of the end of each succeeding year. While the information in the table provides a historical perspective on the adequacy of unpaid losses and loss
adjustment expenses established in previous years, and their subsequent payments, readers are cautioned against extrapolating redundancies or deficiencies of the past on current unpaid loss balances.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

   Berkshire management believes that the reserves established as of December 31, 2008 are reasonable
and adequate. However, due to the inherent uncertainties in the reserving process, it cannot be assured that such balances will ultimately prove to be adequate. Dollar amounts are in millions.       

*  
  The amounts of re-estimated liabilities in the table above related to these operations are based on the applicable foreign currency exchange rates as of the end of the re-estimation
period. The cumulative foreign exchange effect represents the cumulative effect of changes in foreign exchange rates from the original balance sheet date to the end of the re-estimation period.         Investments  Invested assets of insurance businesses derive from shareholder capital as well as funds provided from policyholders through
insurance and reinsurance business ( float ). Float is an approximation of the amount of net policyholder funds available for investment. That term denotes the sum of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses, unearned premiums and other
policyholder liabilities, less the aggregate amount of premium balances receivable, losses recoverable from reinsurance ceded, deferred policy acquisition costs, deferred charges on reinsurance contracts and related deferred income taxes.
     The amount of float has grown from approximately $44 billion at the end of 2003 to approximately $58 billion at the end of 2008, through
internal growth as well as through business acquisitions. BHRG and General Re accounted for approximately 75% of total float as of December 31, 2008. Equally important as the amount of the float is its cost, represented by Berkshire s
periodic net underwriting gain or loss. The increases in the amount of float plus the substantial amounts of shareholder capital devoted to insurance and reinsurance activities have generated meaningful increases in the levels of investments and
investment income over the past five years.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

   Investment portfolios of insurance subsidiaries include ownership of equity securities of other publicly
traded companies which are concentrated in relatively few companies and large amounts of fixed maturity securities and cash and cash equivalents. Fixed maturity investments consist of obligations of the U.S. Government, U.S. states and
municipalities, mortgage-backed securities issued primarily by the three major U.S. Government and Government-sponsored agencies, as well as obligations of foreign governments and corporate obligations. Investment portfolios are primarily managed by
Berkshire s corporate office. Generally, there are no targeted investment allocation rates established by management with respect to investment activities. Rather, management may increase or decrease investments in response to perceived changes
in opportunities for income or price appreciation relative to risks associated with the issuers of the securities.       Utilities and Energy Businesses  
     Berkshire currently owns an 88.2% (87.4% diluted) voting common stock interest in MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company
( MidAmerican ), an international energy company. Following the repeal of the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 and approval by the appropriate Federal and state regulatory authorities, on February 9, 2006, Berkshire
converted its non-voting convertible preferred stock investment in MidAmerican to common stock. Prior to the conversion, Berkshire owned a 9.7% voting interest and an 83.4% (80.5% diluted) economic interest in MidAmerican.      MidAmerican s businesses are managed as separate operating units. MidAmerican s domestic regulated energy interests are comprised of two
regulated utility companies serving over 3 million retail customers and two interstate natural gas pipeline companies with approximately 17,000 miles of pipeline in operation and design capacity of about 7.0 billion cubic feet of natural gas
per day. Its United Kingdom electricity distribution subsidiaries serve about 3.8 million electricity end users. In addition, MidAmerican s interests include a diversified portfolio of domestic independent power projects, a hydroelectric
facility in the Philippines and the second-largest residential real estate brokerage firm in the United States.       Energy Businesses  
      General Matters       PacifiCorp, acquired by MidAmerican in March 2006, is a public utility company headquartered in Portland, Oregon, serving regulated retail electric customers in portions of Utah, Oregon, Wyoming, Washington, Idaho and California. The
combined service territory s diverse regional economy ranges from rural, agricultural and mining areas to urban, manufacturing and government service centers. No single segment of the economy dominates the service territory, which helps
mitigate PacifiCorp s exposure to economic fluctuations. In addition to retail sales, PacifiCorp sells electric energy to other utilities, municipalities and marketers on a wholesale basis.      As a vertically integrated electric utility, PacifiCorp owns approximately 10,200 net megawatts ( MW ) of generation capacity. There are
seasonal variations in PacifiCorp s business. Peak customer demand is typically highest in the summer across PacifiCorp s service territory when air conditioning and irrigation systems are heavily used. The service territory also has a
winter peak, which is typically lower than the summer peak and is primarily due to heating requirements.      MidAmerican Energy Company
( MEC ) is a public utility company headquartered in Des Moines, Iowa, serving regulated retail electric and natural gas customers primarily in Iowa and also in portions of Illinois, South Dakota and Nebraska. MEC has a diverse customer
base consisting of residential, agricultural and a variety of commercial and industrial customer groups. In addition to retail sales, MEC sells regulated electric energy to markets operated by regional transmission organizations and regulated
electric energy and natural gas to other utilities, municipalities and marketers on a wholesale basis and sells non-regulated electric and natural gas services in deregulated markets.      As a vertically integrated electric and gas utility, MEC owns approximately 6,400 net MW of generation capacity. There are seasonal variations in
MEC s business that are principally related to the use of electricity for air conditioning and natural gas for heating. Typically, 35-40% of MEC s regulated electric revenues are reported in the summer months while 45-55% of MEC s
regulated natural gas revenues are earned in the winter months.      Northern Natural Gas Company ( Northern Natural ) is based in
Omaha, Nebraska and operates 15,200 miles of natural gas pipeline making it one of the largest interstate natural gas pipeline systems in the United States reaching from southern Texas to Michigan s Upper Peninsula. Northern Natural has access
to supplies from every major mid-continent basin, as well as the Rocky Mountain and Canadian basins and provides transportation services to utilities and numerous other end-use customers. Kern River Gas Transmission Company ( Kern River )
is based in Salt Lake City, Utah and operates approximately 1,700 miles of natural gas pipeline. Kern River transports natural gas from the supply areas in the Rocky Mountains to  
       
   8   

Table of Contents  

consuming markets in Utah, Nevada and California for major oil and natural gas companies, electric generating companies, energy marketing and trading
companies and natural gas distribution utilities. Northern Natural also operates three underground natural gas storage facilities and two liquefied natural gas storage peaking units. Northern Natural s system experiences significant seasonal
swings in demand, with the highest demand and revenue typically occurring during the months of November through March.      MidAmerican,
through Northern Electric Distribution Limited ( Northern Electric ) and Yorkshire Electricity Distribution PLC ( Yorkshire Electricity ), owns a substantial United Kingdom electricity distribution network that delivers
electricity to end users in northeast England covering approximately 10,000 square miles. The distribution companies primarily charge supply companies regulated tariffs for the use of electrical infrastructure.       Regulatory Matters       PacifiCorp and
MEC are subject to comprehensive regulation by Federal agencies, state utility commissions and other state and local regulatory agencies. The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission ( FERC ), an independent agency with broad authority to
implement provisions of the Federal Power Act and the Energy Policy Act and to assess civil penalties, regulates rates for interstate sales of electricity at wholesale, transmission and expansion of electric power, electric system reliability,
accounting, securities issuances and other matters, including construction and operation of hydroelectric projects. MEC is also subject to regulation by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission pursuant to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954, as amended, with
respect to the operation of the Quad Cities Station.      Both PacifiCorp and MEC have a right to serve retail customers within their service
territories and, in turn, the obligation to provide service to those customers. Historically, state utility commissions have established rates on a cost-of-service basis, which are designed to allow a utility an opportunity to recover its costs of
providing services and to earn a reasonable return on its investment. The rates of MidAmerican s public utility subsidiaries are generally based on the cost of providing traditional bundled services, including generation, transmission and
distribution services.      Northern Natural and Kern River are subject to regulation by various Federal and state agencies. As owners of
interstate natural gas pipelines and gas storage facilities, their rates, services and operations are subject to regulation by the FERC. The FERC administers, most significantly, the Natural Gas Act and the Natural Gas Policy Act of 1978 giving it
jurisdiction over the construction and operation of United States pipelines and related facilities used in the transportation, storage and sale of natural gas in interstate commerce, including the extension, expansion or abandonment of such
facilities. The FERC also has jurisdiction over the rates, charges, terms and conditions of service for the transportation and storage of natural gas in interstate commerce. Additionally, interstate pipeline companies are subject to regulation by a
Federal agency within the United States Department of Transportation pursuant to the Natural Gas Pipeline Safety Act of 1968, as amended, which establishes safety requirements in the design, construction, operation and maintenance of interstate
natural gas transportation facilities, and the Federal Pipeline Safety Improvement Act of 2002, which implemented additional safety and pipeline integrity regulations for high consequence areas.      Northern Electric and Yorkshire Electricity charge fees for use of their distribution systems that are controlled by a formula prescribed by the British
electricity regulatory body, the Office of Gas and Electricity Markets. The distribution price control formula is generally reviewed and reset at five-year intervals and was last reset on April 1, 2005.       Environmental Matters       MidAmerican
and its businesses are subject to Federal, state, local and foreign laws and regulations with regard to air and water quality, renewable portfolio standards, climate change, hazardous and solid waste disposal and other environmental matters. In
addition to imposing continuing compliance obligations, these laws and regulations authorize the imposition of substantial penalties for noncompliance including fines, injunctive relief and other sanctions.      The Federal Clean Air Act, as well as state laws and regulations impacting air emissions, provides a framework for protecting and improving the
nation s air quality and controlling mobile and stationary sources of air emissions. These laws and rules will likely impact the operation of MidAmerican s generating facilities and require them to reduce emissions at those facilities
through the installation of additional emission control equipment or to purchase additional emission allowances.      Renewable portfolio
standards have been established by certain state governments and generally require electricity providers to obtain a minimum percentage of their power from renewable energy resources by a certain date. Utah, Oregon, Washington, California and Iowa
have all passed renewable portfolio standards. Most significantly, PacifiCorp must meet minimum requirements for electricity sold to retail customers from renewable energy resources of at least 20% by 2025 in Utah, at least 25% by 2025 in Oregon and
at least 15% by 2020 in Washington.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

   As a result of increased attention to global climate change in the United States, there are significant
future environmental regulations under consideration to increase the deployment of clean energy technologies and regulate emissions of greenhouse gases at the state, regional and federal levels. Congress and federal policy makers are considering
climate change legislation and a variety of national climate change policies. President Obama has expressed support for an economy-wide greenhouse gas cap-and-trade program that would reduce emissions 80% below 1990 levels by 2050. Alternatively, or
in conjunction with a cap, policy makers have discussed the possibility of imposing a tax on greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, nongovernmental organizations have become more active in initiating citizen suits under existing environmental and
other laws and the Environmental Protection Agency ( EPA ) issued an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking in 2008 to consider issues associated with regulating greenhouse gas emissions under the Clear Air Act. The United States Supreme
Court has ruled that the EPA has the authority under the Clean Air Act to regulate emissions of greenhouse gases from motor vehicles and that the EPA must make a determination relating to the danger posed by greenhouse gas emissions.      While debate continues at the national level over the direction of domestic climate policy, several states have developed state-specific laws or regional
legislative initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. MidAmerican believes in implementing public policy to address climate change in a manner that informs all constituents of cost ramifications and attempts to minimize such costs. MidAmerican
believes that research and development must be undertaken on a large scale and in a coordinated manner to obtain technologies that reduce carbon emissions while still providing reasonably priced energy and also that the development and deployment of
low-carbon electricity technologies must precede the imposition of significant emission reduction requirements or taxes or fees on emissions. In addition, MidAmerican has engaged in several voluntary programs designed to reduce or avoid greenhouse
gas emissions. The impact of any pending judicial proceedings and any pending or enacted Federal and state climate change legislation and regulation cannot be determined at this time; however, adoption of stringent limits on greenhouse gas emissions
could significantly adversely impact MidAmerican s fossil-fueled facilities and therefore, its financial results.       Non-Energy
Businesses       MidAmerican also owns HomeServices of America, Inc. ( HomeServices ), the second largest full-service residential
real estate brokerage firm in the United States. HomeServices also offers integrated real estate services, including mortgage origination, title and closing services, property and casualty insurance, home warranties and other home-related services.
It operates under 21 residential real estate brand names with about 16,000 agents and approximately 300 broker offices in 19 states. HomeServices  principal sources of revenue are dependent on residential real estate sales, which are generally
lower in the first and last quarters of each year. This business is subject to the general real estate market conditions, which after several years of favorable conditions, have deteriorated considerably in 2007 and 2008.       Manufacturing, Service and Retailing Businesses       The
Registrant s numerous and diverse manufacturing, service and retailing businesses are described below.       Marmon  On
March 18, 2008, Berkshire acquired 60% of Marmon Holdings, Inc. ( Marmon ), a private company owned by trusts for the benefit of members of the Pritzker Family of Chicago for $4.5 billion. In the second quarter of 2008, Berkshire
acquired additional shares of Marmon and owned 63.6% at December 31, 2008. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, Berkshire will acquire the remaining minority interests in Marmon between 2011 and 2014 for consideration to be based on the
future earnings of Marmon.      Marmon consists of approximately 130 manufacturing and service businesses that operate independently within
eleven diverse business sectors. These sectors are  Building Wire , providing copper electrical building wire for residential, commercial and industrial construction;  Construction Services , providing the leasing and operation of mobile
cranes primarily to the energy, mining and petrochemical markets;  Distribution Services , supplying specialty metal pipe and tubing, bar and sheet products to markets including construction, industrial, aerospace and many others;  Engineered
Wire   Cable , providing electrical and electronic wire and cable for energy related markets and other industries;  Flow Products , producing copper, aluminum and brass products and materials for the plumbing, heating, air
conditioning, refrigeration, construction, automotive and industrial markets;  Food Service Equipment,  supplying commercial food preparation equipment for restaurants and shopping carts for retail stores;  Highway Technologies , primarily
serving the heavy-duty highway transportation industry with trailers, fifth wheel coupling devices and undercarriage products such as brake parts and suspension systems, and also serving the light vehicle aftermarket with clutches and related
products;  Industrial Products , consisting of metal fasteners for the building, furniture, cabinetry, industrial and other markets, safety products such as gloves for industrial markets, portable lighting equipment for mining and safety
markets, and overhead electrification equipment for mass transit systems, and custom-machined brass,  
       
   10   

Table of Contents  

aluminum and copper forgings for the construction, valve and other industries;  Retail Store Fixtures , providing shelving and other merchandising
displays and related services for retail stores worldwide;  Transportation Services   Engineered Products , including manufacturing, leasing and maintenance of railroad tank cars, leasing of intermodal tank containers, in-plant rail
services, manufacturing of bi-modal railcar movers, wheel, axle and gear sets for light rail transit and gear products for locomotives, manufacturing of steel tank heads, and services, equipment and technology for processing and distributing sulfur;
and  Water Treatment  equipment including residential water softening, purification and refrigeration filtration systems, treatment systems for industrial markets including power generation, oil and gas, chemical, and pulp and paper, gear
drives for irrigation systems and cooling towers, and air-cooled heat exchangers.      Marmon operates more than 250 manufacturing,
distribution and service facilities that are primarily located in North America, Europe and China, and employs approximately 18,000 people worldwide.       McLane Company  Berkshire acquired McLane Company, Inc. ( McLane ) in 2003 from Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. ( Wal-Mart ). McLane provides wholesale distribution and logistics services in all
50 states and internationally in Brazil to customers that include discount retailers, convenience stores, quick service restaurants, drug stores and supermarket chains. From 1990 to 2003, McLane was an integral part of the Wal-Mart distribution
network. Under Berkshire s ownership, McLane continues to provide wholesale distribution services to Wal-Mart which accounts for approximately 33% of McLane s revenues. McLane s business model is based on a high volume of sales, low
profit margins, rapid inventory turnover and tight expense control. Operations are divided into two business units: grocery distribution and foodservice operations.      McLane s grocery distribution unit, based in Temple, Texas, enjoys the dominant market share within the convenience store industry and serves most of the national convenience store chains and major oil company
retail outlets. Grocery operations provide products to more than 40,000 retail locations nationwide, including Wal-Mart. McLane s grocery distribution unit operates 23 facilities in 19 states, which average approximately 400,000 square feet per
facility. In addition, McLane s grocery operations provide third-party logistics services from four distribution facilities in Brazil that average approximately 325,000 square feet per facility.      McLane s foodservice operations, based in Carrollton, Texas, focus on serving the quick service restaurant industry with high quality,
timely-delivered products. Operations are conducted through 18 facilities in 16 states which average approximately 180,000 square feet per facility. The foodservice distribution unit is considered one of the five largest restaurant systems suppliers
in the United States, servicing more than 18,000 chain restaurants nationwide.       Shaw Industries  Shaw Industries Group, Inc.
( Shaw ), headquartered in Dalton, Georgia, is the world s largest carpet manufacturer based on both revenue and volume of production. Shaw designs and manufactures over 3,000 styles of tufted and woven carpet and rugs and laminate
flooring for residential and commercial use under about 30 brand and trade names and under certain private labels. Shaw s manufacturing operations are fully integrated from the processing of raw materials used to make fiber through the
finishing of carpet. Shaw s carpet and laminate are sold in a broad range of prices, patterns, colors and textures. Shaw acquired the Anderson Family of Companies ( Anderson ) in September of 2007. Anderson is a fully integrated
producer of hardwood flooring known for their quality, craftsmanship and innovation. The Anderson business compliments Shaw s laminate and existing flooring business.      Shaw sells its wholesale products to over 40,000 retailers, distributors and commercial users throughout the United States, Canada and Mexico. Shaw also
exports to various overseas markets. Shaw provides installation services and sells ceramic tile and hardwood flooring. Shaw s wholesale products are marketed domestically by over 1,900 salaried and commissioned sales personnel directly to
retailers and distributors and to large national accounts. Shaw s 12 carpet full-service distribution facilities, three hard surface and four rug full-service distribution facilities and 30 redistribution centers, along with centralized
management information systems, enable it to provide prompt delivery of its products to both its retail customers and wholesale distributors.      Substantially all carpet manufactured by Shaw is tufted carpet made from nylon, polypropylene and polyester. In the tufting process, yarn is inserted by multiple needles into a synthetic backing, forming loops which may be cut or left
uncut, depending on the desired texture or construction. During 2008 Shaw processed approximately 97% of its requirements for carpet yarn in its own yarn processing facilities. The availability of raw materials continues to be good although costs
have been adversely impacted by the high petro-chemical and natural gas prices. The raw material increases are periodically passed along to customers. Raw material prices began to decline during the fourth quarter of 2008 but continued volatility is
expected in 2009.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

   The floor covering industry is highly competitive with more than 100 companies engaged in the manufacture
and sale of carpet in the United States and numerous manufacturers engaged in hard surface floor covering production and sales. According to industry estimates, carpet accounts for approximately 60% of the total United States production of all
flooring types. The principal competitive measures within the floor covering industry are quality, style, price and service.       Other
Manufacturing, Service and Retailing Businesses        Apparel Manufacturing  Berkshire s apparel manufacturing businesses
include manufacturers of a variety of clothing and footwear. Businesses engaged in the manufacture and distribution of clothing products include Fruit of the Loom ( FOL ), Russell Corporation ( Russell ), Vanity Fair Brands
( VFB ), Garan and Fechheimer Brothers. Berkshire s footwear businesses include H.H. Brown Shoe Group and Justin Brands.      Berkshire acquired FOL in 2002, Russell in August 2006 and VFB in April 2007. As a combined
business, headquartered in Bowling Green, Kentucky, FOL, Russell and VFB ( FOL Inc. ) is primarily a vertically integrated manufacturer and distributor of basic apparel, underwear and bras. Products, under the  Fruit of the Loom       and  JERZEES       labels, are primarily sold in the mass merchandise and wholesale markets. With the addition of VFB, FOL Inc.
has expanded its intimate apparel line that is sold under the  Vanity Fair     , Vassarette     , Bestform     , Lily of France     , and Curvation       brands. FOL Inc. also markets and sells athletic uniforms,
apparel, sports equipment and balls to team dealers; college licensed tee shirts and fleecewear to college bookstores and mid-tier merchants; and athletic apparel, sports equipment and balls to sporting goods retailers under the  Russell
Athletic       and  Spalding       brands. FOL Inc. markets and sells running footwear and apparel to specialty retailers under
the Brooks      brand. Other brands include  American Athletic     , Cross Creek    
 , Mossy Oak     , Moving Comfort     , Bike     , Dudley     , Discus     , Sherrin     , Gemma     , Lou     , Intima     , and Variance     . 
     FOL Inc. maintains the number one market share brand of men s and boy s
underwear and Russell Athletic        is the leading provider of team uniforms. FOL Inc., under the  Spalding       brand, is
the official basketball and backboard licensee of the National Basketball Association and is the world s leading seller of basketballs.      For basic apparel, underwear and certain athletic products FOL Inc. performs most of its own spinning, knitting, cloth finishing, cutting, sewing and packaging. For the North American market which comprised more than 80% of FOL Inc. s
net sales in 2008, the majority of capital-intensive spinning and cloth manufacturing operations are located in highly automated facilities in the United States with a portion of cloth manufacturing performed offshore. Labor-intensive sewing and
finishing operations are located in lower labor cost facilities in Central America and the Caribbean. For the European market, products are either outsourced to third-party contractors in Europe or Asia or sewn in Morocco from textiles internally
produced in the Caribbean and Morocco. A new textile facility in Morocco started production in 2008 and will replace the Caribbean textile production in 2009. FOL Inc. s bras, athletic equipment, footwear, sporting goods and other athletic
apparel lines are generally sourced from third-party contractors located primarily in Asia.      Cotton and polyester fibers are the main raw
materials used in the manufacturing of FOL Inc. s products and are purchased from a limited number of third-party suppliers and manufacturers. Raw materials are subject to price volatility caused by weather, supply conditions, government
regulations, economic climate and other unpredictable factors. Management believes there are currently readily available alternative sources of supply. However, if relationships with suppliers cannot be maintained or delays occur in obtaining
alternative sources of supply, production could be adversely affected, which could have a corresponding adverse effect on results of operations. FOL Inc. s markets are highly competitive, consisting of many domestic and foreign manufacturers
and distributors. Competition is generally based upon price, product style, quality and customer service.      Garan designs, manufactures and sells apparel primarily for children and to a lesser degree for men and women. Products are primarily sold under its own trademark  Garanimals       and private labels of its customers. Garan s production facilities are primarily located in Central America. Substantially all of Garan s products are sold through its distribution centers in the U.S. to
major national chain stores, department stores and specialty stores. In 2008, over 90% of Garan s sales were to Wal-Mart. Fechheimer Brothers manufactures, distributes and sells uniforms, principally for the public service and safety markets,
including police, fire, postal and military markets. Fechheimer Brothers is based in Cincinnati, Ohio.      Justin Brands and H.H. Brown Shoe Group manufacture and distribute work, rugged outdoor and casual shoes and western-style footwear under a number of brand names, including Justin, Born     , Sofft     , Carolina      and Double HH Boots    
 . Significant portions of the shoes sold by Berkshire s shoe businesses are manufactured or purchased from sources outside the United States. Products are principally sold in the United States through a variety of channels including
department stores, footwear chains, specialty stores, catalogs and the Internet, as well as through company-owned retail stores.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

    Building Products Manufacturing  Berkshire entered the building products business in 2000 with
the acquisition of Acme Building Brands ( Acme ). Acme, headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas, manufactures and distributes clay bricks ( Acme Brick ), concrete block ( Featherlite ) and cut limestone ( Texas Quarries ). In
addition, Acme distributes a number of other building products of other manufacturers, including glass block, floor and wall tile and other masonry products. Acme also sells ceramic floor and wall tile, as well as marble, granite and other stones
through its subsidiary, American Tile. Products are sold primarily in the Southwest United States through company-operated sales offices. Acme distributes products primarily to homebuilders and masonry and general contractors.      Acme operates 24 clay brick manufacturing facilities located in seven states, seven concrete block facilities in Texas and two stone quarry fabrication
facilities located in Texas and Minnesota. In addition, Acme operates a glass block fabrication facility, a concrete bagging facility and a stone burnishing facility all located in Texas. The demand for Acme s products is seasonal, with higher
sales in the warmer weather months and is subject to the level of construction which can be cyclical. Acme also owns and leases properties and mineral rights that supply raw materials used in many of its manufactured products. Raw materials supply
is believed to be adequate into the foreseeable future.        Benjamin
Moore   Co. ( Benjamin Moore ), headquartered in Montvale, New Jersey, is a leading formulator, manufacturer and retailer of a broad range of architectural coatings, available principally in the United States and Canada. Products
include water-thinnable and solvent-thinnable general purpose coatings (paints, stains and clear finishes) for use by the general public, contractors and industrial and commercial users. Products are marketed under various registered brand names,
including  Regal      ,  Superspec      ,  Moorcraft Superhide      ,  Moorgard      ,  Aura      ,  Coronado Paint      ,  Insl-x       and  Lenmar      .         Benjamin Moore relies primarily on an independent dealer network for the distribution of its
products. The network consists of over 3,600 retailers with over 5,100 storefronts in the United States and Canada. Benjamin Moore also owns and manages several multiple-outlet stores and stand-alone stores in various parts of the United States and
Canada serving primarily contractors and general consumers. Included in the 5,100 storefronts at December 31, 2008 were 98 Benjamin Moore majority-owned stores. The independent retailer channel offers a broad array of products including
 Benjamin Moore      and Insl-x       brands and other competitor coatings, wallcoverings, window treatments and sundries. Benjamin
Moore also has four color stations located in regional malls that serve as brand marketing tools.      Johns Manville ( JM ), founded
in 1858, has been serving the building products industry for nearly 150 years and is a leading manufacturer and marketer of premium-quality products for building insulation, mechanical insulation, commercial roofing and roof insulation, as well as
fibers and nonwovens for commercial, industrial and residential applications. JM serves markets that include aerospace, automotive and transportation, air handling, appliance, HVAC, pipe and equipment filtration, waterproofing, building, flooring,
interiors and wind energy. Fiber glass is the basic material in a majority of JM s products, although JM also manufactures a significant portion of its products with other materials to satisfy the broader needs of its customers. JM regards its
patents and licenses as valuable, however it does not consider any of its businesses to be materially dependent on any single patent or license. JM is headquartered in Denver, Colorado, and operates 40 manufacturing facilities in North America,
Europe and China and conducts research and development at several other facilities.      JM sells its products through a wide variety of
channels including contractors, distributors, retailers, manufacturers and fabricators. JM holds leadership positions in all the key markets that it serves and typically competes with a few large national competitors and several smaller, regional
competitors. JM s products compete primarily on the basis of value, product differentiation and customization and breadth of product line.      Berkshire acquired MiTek Inc. ( MiTek ) in 2001. MiTek is headquartered in Chesterfield,
Missouri and is a leading provider of engineered connector products, engineering software and services and computer-driven manufacturing machinery to the truss fabrication segment of the building components industry. Primary customers are truss
fabricators who manufacture pre-fabricated roof and floor trusses and wall panels for the residential building market as well as the light commercial and institutional construction industry. MiTek also participates in the light gauge steel framing
market under the  Ultra-Span       name and manufactures assembly line machinery used by the lead acid battery industry. MiTek operates on five continents with sales into approximately 80
countries. MiTek has 41 manufacturing facilities located in eleven countries and 59 sales/engineering offices located in 15 countries.      Demand for products of Berkshire s building products businesses is affected to varying degrees by commercial construction and industrial activity in the U.S. and Europe and the level of U.S. housing construction. For several years,
U.S. housing construction was strong, resulting in strong demand for building products and high manufacturing capacity utilization. Since the second half of 2006, housing construction activity has declined resulting in lower demand for certain
building  
       
   13   

Table of Contents  

products and decreased manufacturing capacity utilization. The declines in construction activity accelerated over 2008. There have also been declines in
European commercial construction and industrial activity.      The building products businesses are subject to a variety of Federal, state and
local environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations regulate the discharge of materials into the air, land and water and govern the use and disposal of hazardous substances.       Other Manufacturing Businesses       Berkshire acquired an 80% interest in ISCAR Metalworking Companies ( IMC ) in 2006. IMC, based in Tefen, Israel, is one of the world s three largest multinational manufacturers of consumable precision carbide metal cutting
tools for applications in a broad range of industrial end markets under the brand names ISCAR, TaeguTec, Ingersoll, Unitac, UOP It.te.di and Outiltec. IMC s manufacturing facilities are located in Israel, United States, Germany, Italy, France,
Switzerland, South Korea, China, India, Japan and Brazil.      IMC has five primary product lines: milling tools, gripping tools,
turning/thread tools, drilling tools and tooling. The main products are split within each product line between consumable cemented tungsten carbide inserts and steel tool holders. Inserts comprise the vast majority of sales and earnings. Metal
cutting inserts are used by industrial manufactures to cut metals and are consumed during their use in cutting applications. IMC manufactures hundreds of different inserts within each product line that are highly engineered and tailored to maximize
productivity and meet the technical requirements of customers.      IMC s products are sold through a global sales and marketing network
with representatives in virtually every major manufacturing center around the world staffed with highly skilled engineers and technical personnel. IMC s customer base is very diverse, with its primary customers being large, multinational
businesses in the automotive, aerospace, engineering and machines industries. IMC operates a regional central warehouse system with locations in Israel, United States, Belgium, Japan and Brazil. Additional small quantities of products are maintained
at local IMC offices in order to provide on-time customer support and inventory management.      IMC competes in the metal cutting tools
segment of the global metalworking tools market. The segment includes hundreds of participants who range from small, private manufactures of specialized products for niche applications and markets to larger, global multinationals with a wide
assortment of products and extensive distribution networks.      In 2005, Berkshire acquired Forest River, Inc. ( Forest River ), a
manufacturer of recreational vehicles, utility, cargo and office trailers, busses and pontoon boats, headquartered in Elkhart, Indiana. Its products are sold in the United States and Canada through an independent dealer network. Forest River has
manufacturing facilities in six states. Beginning in 2007, Forest River also provides wholesale financing for its dealers, broker services for retail financing needs of dealers and provides temporary housing to the Federal and state governments for
disaster relief efforts.      The Scott Fetzer Companies are a diversified group of 21 businesses that manufacture and distribute a wide
variety of products for residential, industrial and institutional use. The two most significant of these businesses are Kirby home cleaning systems and Campbell Hausfeld products. Albecca Inc. ( Albecca ), headquartered in Norcross,
Georgia, does business primarily under the  Larson-Juhl  name. Albecca designs, manufactures and distributes a complete line of high quality, branded custom framing products, including wood and metal moulding, matboard, foamboard, glass,
equipment and other framing supplies in the U.S., Canada and 15 countries outside of North America. CTB International Corp., headquartered in Milford, Indiana, is a leading designer, manufacturer and marketer of systems used in the grain industry
and in the production of poultry, hogs and eggs.       Service Businesses       FlightSafety International Inc. ( FSI ) is headquartered at LaGuardia Airport in Flushing, New York. FSI engages primarily in the business of
providing high technology training to operators of aircraft. FSI s training activities include: advanced pilot training in the operation of aircraft and air traffic control procedures; aircrew training for military and other government
personnel; aircraft maintenance technician training; and ab-initio (primary) pilot training to qualify individuals for private and commercial pilots  licenses. FSI also develops classroom instructional systems and materials for use in its
training business and for sale to others.      A significant part of FSI s training programs derives from the use of simulators, which
incorporate computer-based technology to replicate the operation of particular aircraft. Simulators reproduce, with a high degree of accuracy, certain sights,  
       
   14   

Table of Contents  

movements and aircraft control responses experienced by the operator of the aircraft. FSI utilizes 459 training devices, including 288 civil aviation
simulators. FSI s training businesses are conducted primarily in the United States, with facilities located in 20 states. FSI also operates training facilities in Canada, France and the United Kingdom. FSI also designs and manufactures full
motion flight simulators, visual displays and other training equipment for use in its training business and for sale to others. Manufacturing facilities are located in Oklahoma and Missouri.      NetJets Inc. ( NJ ) is the world s leading provider of fractional ownership
programs for general aviation aircraft. The fractional aircraft ownership concept permits customers to acquire a specific percentage of a certain aircraft type and allows them to utilize the aircraft for a specified number of flight hours per annum.
In addition, NJ provides management, ground support and flight operation services. NJ is subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Aviation Administration, which address aircraft registration, maintenance requirements, pilot qualifications
and airport operations, including flight planning and scheduling as well as security issues. NJ also maintains an  exclusive alliance  with an independent company, Marquis Jet Partners, Inc. ( Marquis ). Under this alliance,
Marquis leases and purchases fractional interests and management services from NJ and resells them to its customers in the form of a prepaid Marquis Jet Card, which entitles the customer to 25 hours of flight time. This element of NJ s business
continues to grow and currently approximates 18% of NJ revenues.      The fractional ownership concept is designed to meet the needs of
customers who cannot justify the purchase of an entire aircraft based upon expected usage. In addition, fractional ownership programs are available for corporate flight departments seeking to outsource their general aviation needs or looking for
additional capacity for peak periods and for others that previously chartered aircraft. NJ places great emphasis on safety and customer service. Its programs are designed to offer customers guaranteed availability of aircraft, lower and predictable
operating costs and increased liquidity.      NJ is currently believed to be the world s largest purchaser of general aviation aircraft
and maintains about 700 aircraft (comprised of 14 types of aircraft) in its fleet. NJ s executive offices are located in Woodbridge, New Jersey, while most of its logistical and flight operations are based at Port Columbus International Airport
in Columbus, Ohio. NJ s European operations are based in Lisbon, Portugal.      In March 2007, Berkshire acquired TTI, Inc., an electronic
component distributor headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas. TTI, Inc. is a global specialty distributor of passive, interconnect and discrete components, which are readily adaptable to a wide variety of end-users over a broad range of industries.
TTI s customer base includes original equipment manufacturers, contract manufacturers, military, industrial users and commercial customers. TTI s business model is organized between its core business of supporting high volume production
business and its catalog division which supports lower volume purchases with a broader customer base and higher margins. TTI operates distribution centers in North America, Europe and Asia. TTI operates from more than 50 locations throughout North
America, Europe and Asia.      Business Wire provides electronic dissemination of full-text news releases daily to the media, the Internet,
online services and databases and the global investment community in 150 countries and 45 languages. Roughly 90% of the company s revenue comes from the core business of news distribution. The Pampered Chef, LTD ( TPC ) is the largest
direct seller of high quality kitchen tools in the United States. Products are researched, designed and tested by TPC and manufactured by third-party suppliers. The Buffalo News publishes three editions on Saturday and Sunday and five editions each
weekday from its headquarters in Buffalo, New York. International Dairy Queen services a system of about 5,700 stores operating under the names  Dairy Queen, Orange Julius  and  Karmelkorn  that offer various dairy desserts, beverages,
prepared foods, blended fruit drinks, popcorn and other snack foods.       Retailing Businesses  Berkshire s retailing
businesses principally consist of several independently managed home furnishings and jewelry operations. Information regarding each of these operations follows.      The home furnishings businesses are the Nebraska Furniture Mart ( NFM ), R.C. Willey Home Furnishings ( R.C. Willey ), Star Furniture Company ( Star ) and Jordan s Furniture, Inc.
( Jordan s ). NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan s each offer a wide selection of furniture, bedding and accessories. In addition, NFM and R.C. Willey sell a full line of major household appliances, electronics, computers and
other home furnishings. NFM, R.C. Willey, Star and Jordan s also offer customer financing to complement their retail operations. An important feature of each of these businesses is their ability to control costs and to produce high business
volume from offering significant value to their customers.      NFM operates its business from a very large retail complex with over 500,000
square feet of retail space and sizable warehouse and administrative facilities in Omaha, Nebraska. NFM s customers are drawn from a radius around Omaha of approximately 300 miles. NFM is the largest furniture retailer in the area. In 2000, NFM
acquired Homemakers Furniture  
       
   15   

Table of Contents  

located in Des Moines, Iowa. Homemakers has two facilities that include approximately 205,000 square feet of retail space. In 2003, NFM opened a new store in
Kansas City, Kansas. This store, which anchors a retail and entertainment district, includes approximately 445,000 square feet of retail space, 625,000 square feet of warehouse/administration space and draws customers from a significant radius
around Kansas City.      R.C. Willey, based in Salt Lake City, Utah, is the dominant home furnishings retailer in the Intermountain West region
of the United States. R.C. Willey operates 11 retail stores, two retail clearance facilities and three distribution centers. These facilities include approximately 1.5 million square feet of retail space with eight stores located in Utah, one
store in Idaho, three stores in Nevada and one store in California. In June 2006, R.C. Willey opened a store in Rocklin, California to serve the Sacramento, California market. R.C. Willey also opened a new distribution center during 2006 in
Roseville, California to serve the northern California and Reno, Nevada markets.      Star s retail facilities include about 700,000
square feet of retail space in 11 locations. Star s retail facilities are located in Texas with eight in Houston. Star maintains a dominant position in each of its markets. Jordan s operates a furniture retail business from four locations
with approximately 520,000 square feet of retail space in Massachusetts and New Hampshire. Jordan s is believed to be the largest furniture retailer, as measured by sales, in the Massachusetts and New Hampshire areas. Jordan s is well
known in its markets for its unique store arrangements and advertising campaigns.      Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc. ( Borsheims )
operates from a single store located in Omaha, Nebraska. Borsheims is a high volume retailer of fine jewelry, watches, crystal, china, stemware, flatware, gifts and collectibles. Helzberg s Diamond Shops, Inc. ( Helzberg ), based in
North Kansas City, Missouri, operates a chain of about 250 retail jewelry stores in 39 states. Most of Helzberg s stores are located in malls, lifestyle centers or power strip centers, and all stores operate under the name  Helzberg
Diamonds . The Ben Bridge Corporation ( Ben Bridge Jeweler ), based in Seattle, Washington, operates a chain of 78 upscale retail jewelry stores in 12 states, primarily in the Western United States. Principal products include finished
jewelry and timepieces. Ben Bridge Jeweler stores are located primarily in major shopping malls. Berkshire s retail jewelry operations are subject to seasonality with approximately 40% of annual revenues being earned in the fourth quarter.
     Also included in Berkshire s group of retailing businesses is See s Candies ( See s ), which produces boxed
chocolates and other confectionery products with an emphasis on quality and distinctiveness in two large kitchens in Los Angeles and San Francisco, California. See s revenues are highly seasonal with approximately 50% of total annual revenues
being earned in the months of November and December.       Finance and Financial Products       Clayton Homes, Inc. ( Clayton ), headquartered near Knoxville, Tennessee, is a vertically integrated manufactured housing company. At
December 31, 2008, Clayton operated 35 manufacturing plants in 12 states. Clayton s homes are marketed in 48 states through a network of 1,541 retailers, including 430 company-owned sales centers. Financing is offered to purchasers of
Clayton s manufactured homes as well as those purchasing homes from selected independent retailers. Such financing is provided through its wholly owned finance subsidiaries. Clayton is also currently developing 20 housing subdivisions in five
states.      Clayton competes at the manufacturing, retail and finance levels on the basis of price, service, delivery capabilities and product
performance and considers the ability to make financing available to retail purchasers a major factor affecting the market acceptance of its product. Retail sales are facilitated by Clayton s offering of various finance and insurance programs.
Finance programs include home note and mortgage originations at company-owned sales centers and select independent retailers. Underwriting guidelines have been developed and include minimum gross income, debt to income limits and credit score
requirements. A proprietary credit scoring system is used to evaluate applicants. A majority of loans are fully verified and documented as to income, employment and credit history. Approximately 50% of the originations are home-only loans and the
remaining 50% have land as additional collateral. The average down payment is about 20%, which may be from cash or land equity. Each loan with land will have an independent appraisal in order to establish the value of the land. Originations are all
fixed rate and fixed term, with an average term of about 265 months. Loans outstanding also include bulk purchases of contracts and mortgages from banks and other lenders. Clayton also provides inventory financing to certain independent retailers
and services housing contracts and mortgages that were not purchased or originated. The bulk contract purchases and servicing arrangements may relate to the portfolios of other lenders or finance companies, governmental agencies, or other entities
that purchase and hold housing contracts and mortgages. Clayton also acts as agent on physical damage insurance policies, home buyer protection plan policies and other programs.         
   16   

Table of Contents  

   XTRA Corporation ( XTRA ), headquartered in St. Louis, Missouri, is a leading transportation
equipment lessor operating under the XTRA Lease brand name. XTRA manages a diverse fleet of approximately 110,000 units located at 74 facilities throughout the United States and five facilities in Canada. The fleet includes over-the-road and storage
trailers, chassis, temperature controlled vans and flatbed trailers. XTRA is one of the two largest lessors (in terms of units available) of over-the-road trailers in North America. Transportation equipment customers lease equipment to cover
cyclical, seasonal and geographic needs and as a substitute for purchasing. Therefore, as a provider of marginal capacity of transportation equipment, XTRA s utilization rates (the number of units on lease to total units available) and
operating results tend to be cyclical. In addition, transportation providers often use leasing to maximize their asset utilization and reduce capital expenditures. By maintaining a large fleet, XTRA is able to provide customers with a broad
selection of equipment and quick response times.      BH Finance invests in fixed-income financial instruments pursuant to proprietary
strategies with the objective of earning above average investment returns. BH Finance also enters into derivative contracts and assumes foreign currency, equity price and credit default risk. Management recognizes and accepts that losses may occur
due to the nature of these activities as well as the markets in general. This business is conducted from Berkshire s corporate headquarters. CORT Business Services Corporation is the leading national provider of rental furniture, accessories
and related services in the  rent-to-rent  segment of the furniture rental industry.      Berkshire and its subsidiaries employed
approximately 246,000 persons at December 31, 2008.       Additional information with respect to Berkshire s businesses       The amounts of revenue, earnings before taxes and identifiable assets attributable to the aforementioned business segments are included in Note 21 to
Registrant s Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. Additional information regarding Registrant s investments in fixed maturity and equity securities and other investments
is included in Notes 3, 4 and 5 to Registrant s Consolidated Financial Statements.      Berkshire Hathaway Inc. maintains a website
( http://www.berkshirehathaway.com ) where its annual reports, certain corporate governance documents, press releases, interim shareholder reports and links to its subsidiaries  websites can be found. Berkshire s periodic reports
filed with the SEC, which include Form 10-K, Form 10-Q, Form 8-K and amendments thereto, may be accessed by the public free of charge from the SEC and through Berkshire. Electronic copies of these reports can be accessed at the SEC s website
( http://www.sec.gov ) and indirectly through Berkshire s website ( http://www.berkshirehathaway.com ). Copies of these reports may also be obtained, free of charge, upon written request to: Berkshire Hathaway Inc., 3555 Farnam
Street, Omaha, NE 68131, Attn: Corporate Secretary. The public may read or obtain copies of these reports from the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 450 Fifth Street N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549 (1-800-SEC-0330).         
   17   

Table of Contents  

Item 1A.   
   Risk Factors         Berkshire is subject to certain risks
in its business operations which are described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing Berkshire. Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known or that are currently deemed immaterial may also impair
our business operations.       The Company s tolerance for risk in its insurance businesses may result in significant underwriting losses.
      Berkshire believes it has been and continues to be willing to assume more risk than any other insurer has knowingly assumed. Berkshire
estimates it could incur a probable maximum loss of approximately $7 billion from a single loss event and does so willingly if properly paid for the risk assumed. Berkshire has also written some coverages for losses arising from acts of terrorism.
In all cases, however, Berkshire attempts to avoid writing groups of policies from which losses might seriously aggregate. However, it is possible that despite Berkshire s efforts, losses may aggregate in ways that were not anticipated. The
tolerance for huge losses may in certain future periods result in such losses, which may result in a high degree of volatility in periodic reported earnings.       The degree of estimation error inherent in the process of estimating property and casualty insurance loss reserves may result in significant underwriting losses.       In the insurance business, premiums are charged today for promises to pay covered losses in the future. The principal cost associated with premium revenue
is claims. However, it will literally take decades before all losses that have occurred as of the balance sheet date will be reported and settled. Although Berkshire believes that loss reserve balances are adequate to cover losses, Berkshire will
not truly know whether the premiums charged for the coverages provided were sufficient until well after the balance sheet date. Except for certain product lines, Berkshire s objective is to generate underwriting profits over the long-term.
Estimating insurance claim costs is inherently imprecise. Reserve estimates are large ($56.6 billion at December 31, 2008) so adjustments to reserve estimates can have a material effect on periodic reported earnings.       Insurance subsidiaries  investments are unusually concentrated and fair values are subject to loss in value.       Compared to other insurers, Berkshire s insurance subsidiaries keep an unusually high percentage of their assets in common stocks and diversify their
portfolios far less than is conventional. A significant decline in the general stock market or in the price of major investments may produce a large decrease in Berkshire s shareholders  equity and under certain circumstances may require
the recognition of such losses in the statement of earnings. Decreases in values of equity investments could have a material adverse effect on Berkshire s book value per share. During 2008, several crises affecting the financial system and
capital markets of the U.S. resulted in very large price declines in the general stock market and in Berkshire s equity and fixed maturity investments, particularly in the fourth quarter of 2008. The aggregate fair value of Berkshire s
investments decreased significantly in 2008 and could continue into the future.       Derivative contracts may require significant future cash settlement
payments and result in significant losses.       Berkshire assumes significant risk of loss from its credit default and equity index put
option contracts. Although Berkshire has received considerable premiums as compensation for accepting these risks, there is no assurance that the premiums received will exceed the future cash settlement payments. While the risks under the credit
default contracts are limited to specified entities, the deterioration of the U.S. economy has increased the likelihood of credit defaults and payments to counterparties under many of Berkshire s contracts. Berkshire s risk under the
equity index put option contracts is based on declines in equity prices of stocks comprising various indexes worldwide. Although these contracts do not expire before 2019, Berkshire could be subject to significant future settlement payments at
expiration if equity prices do not increase from current levels.      The credit default and equity index put option contracts are recorded at
fair value in the Consolidated Balance Sheet and the periodic changes in fair value are reported in earnings. The valuations of these contracts and the impact on Berkshire s earnings can be particularly significant reflecting the volatility of
credit and equity markets.       Berkshire is dependent for its investment and capital allocation decisions on a few key people.       Investment decisions and all major capital allocation decisions are made for Berkshire s businesses by Warren E. Buffett, Chairman of the Board of
Directors and CEO, age 78, in consultation with Charles T. Munger, Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors, age 85. If for any reason the services of Berkshire s key personnel, particularly Mr. Buffett, were to become unavailable to
Berkshire, there could be a material adverse effect on the Company. However, Berkshire s Board of Directors has  
       
   18   

Table of Contents  

identified three current Berkshire subsidiary managers who are capable of being CEO. Berkshire s Board has agreed on a replacement for Mr. Buffett
should a replacement be needed currently. The Board continually monitors this matter and could alter its current view in the future. Management believes that the Board s succession plan, together with the outstanding managers running
Berkshire s numerous and highly diversified operating units helps to mitigate this risk.       The past growth rate in Berkshire stock is not an
indication of future results.       In the years since Berkshire s present management acquired control of Berkshire, its book value per
share has grown at a highly satisfactory rate. Because of the large size of Berkshire s capital base (shareholders  equity of approximately $109.3 billion as of December 31, 2008), Berkshire s book value per share very likely
will not increase in the future at a rate even close to its past rate.       Competition       Each of Berkshire s operating businesses faces intense competitive pressures within its respective markets. Such competition may come from domestic
operators and international operators. While Berkshire s businesses are managed with the objective of achieving long-term sustainable growth by developing and strengthening competitive advantages. Many factors, including market and technology
changes, may erode competitive advantages or prevent their strengthening. Accordingly, future operating results will depend to some degree on whether the operating units are successful in protecting or enhancing their competitive advantages.
      Unfavorable economic and political conditions could hurt Berkshire s operating businesses.       Berkshire s operating businesses are subject to normal economic cycles affecting the economy in general or the industries in which they operate. To
the extent that the current economic recession in the U.S. and worldwide continue for a prolonged period of time, one or more of Berkshire s significant operations could be materially harmed. In addition, Berkshire s utilities and energy
businesses and manufactured housing finance operations regularly utilize debt as a component of their capital structures. These businesses depend on having access to borrowed funds through the capital markets. To the extent that access to the credit
is restricted or the cost of funding increases, these operations could be adversely affected.      Historically, Berkshire has derived a
relatively small amount of its revenues and earnings from international markets and its international business was concentrated in the insurance businesses, which are conducted primarily in Western Europe, Japan, Australia and other regions where
relatively stable political and economic conditions have prevailed. As a result of Berkshire s recent business acquisitions, including IMC, Berkshire may be subject to increased risks from unstable political conditions and civil unrest in
international markets. IMC s headquarters are located in Israel and substantial business operations are conducted in Israel and South Korea.      Unstable economic and political conditions, civil unrest and political activism, particularly in the Middle East, could adversely impact Berkshire s businesses, including internationally based businesses. Further, terrorism activities
deriving from unstable conditions could produce significant losses to Berkshire s worldwide operations, including operations based in the United States. Business operations could be adversely affected directly through the loss of human
resources and destruction of production facilities.       Risks unique to utilities and energy businesses       For the most part, Berkshire s utilities and energy businesses, which generate, transmit and distribute electricity and transport and distribute
natural gas, are highly regulated by numerous Federal, state and local governmental authorities in the United States, the United Kingdom and other jurisdictions in which they operate. The regulatory process determines the terms and conditions of
providing utility service, including the rates that may be charged to customers. The results of this process may not allow recovery of all costs incurred by the utilities. Regulations also address safety, environmental, capital structure and
operational compliance. Adverse new legislation or regulations or reinterpretations of existing regulations as well as the nature of the regulatory process may have a significant impact on financial results.      The utilities and energy business requires significant amounts of capital to construct, operate and maintain sufficient generation, transmission and
distribution systems. Usually, large amounts of borrowed funds are required to capitalize these businesses and additional borrowed funds may not be available at economically favorable terms. Additionally, such systems may need to be operational for
very long periods of time in order to justify the financial investment. The risk of operational or financial failure of capital projects is not necessarily recoverable through rates that are charged to customers.         
   19   

Table of Contents  

    Berkshire s Class B Common Stock is not convertible and has a lower vote and stock price than its Class A
Common Stock.       Each share of Class A Common Stock is convertible into thirty shares of Class B Common Stock, but shares of Class B
Common Stock are not convertible into shares of Class A Common Stock or any other security. Although a share of Class B Common Stock may sell below one-thirtieth of the market price for a share of Class A Common Stock, it is unlikely that
a share of Class B Common Stock will sell significantly above one-thirtieth of the market price for a share of Class A Common Stock because higher prices than that would cause arbitrage activity to ensue. Also, holders of Class A Common
Stock are entitled to one vote, but holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled to only one two-hundredth of a vote for each Class B share on matters submitted to a vote of Berkshire stockholders.       

Item 1B.   
   Unresolved Staff Comments         None.       

Item 2.   
   Description of Properties         The physical properties
used by the Registrant and its significant business segments are summarized below:       
       
   20   

Table of Contents  

21   

Table of Contents  

    Utilities and Energy Businesses       MidAmerican s energy properties consist of the physical assets necessary to generate, transmit, store, distribute and supply energy and consist
mainly of electric generation, transmission and distribution facilities, gas distribution facilities, natural gas pipelines, storage facilities, compressor stations and meter stations, along with the related rights-of-way. A majority of these
properties are pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise provide the security for the related subsidiary debt. MidAmerican or its affiliates own or have interests in the following types of electric generation facilities at December 31,
2008:       

(1)        
      Facility Net Capacity (MW) represents (except for wind-powered generation
facilities, which are nameplate ratings) either: 1) PacifiCorp the total capability of a generating unit as demonstrated by actual operating or test experience, less power generated and used for auxiliaries and other station uses, and is
determined using average annual temperatures; 2) MEC the total plant accredited net generating capacity from the summer of 2008 where MW may vary depending on operating conditions and plant design; or 3) CalEnergy the contract capacity for
most facilities.        

(2)        
      Net MW Owned indicates MidAmerican s ownership of Facility Net Capacity
(MW).           PacifiCorp and MEC own electric transmission and distribution systems, including approximately 18,200
miles of transmission lines and approximately 1,300 substations, gas distribution facilities including approximately 22,000 miles of gas mains and service pipelines and an estimated 219 million tons of recoverable coal reserves in mines owned
or leased in Wyoming, Utah and Colorado.      Northern Natural operates approximately 15,200 miles of natural gas pipelines, consisting of
approximately 6,400 miles of mainline transmission pipelines and approximately 8,800 miles of branch and lateral pipelines. Northern Natural s system includes delivery points in the northern end of the system (Michigan, Illinois, Iowa,
Minnesota, Nebraska, Wisconsin and South Dakota) and the natural gas supply and delivery service area at the southern end of the system (Kansas, Oklahoma, Texas and New Mexico). Storage services are provided through the operation of one underground
natural gas storage field in Iowa, two underground natural gas storage facilities in Kansas and two liquefied natural gas storage peaking units, one in Iowa and one in Minnesota.      Kern River operates approximately 1,700 miles of natural gas pipelines consisting of a mainline section and common facilities. Kern River owns the entire
mainline section, which extends from the pipeline s point of origination in Wyoming through the Central Rocky Mountains area into California.      Northern Electric s and Yorkshire Electricity s electricity distribution network includes approximately 18,000 miles of overhead lines, approximately 39,000 miles of underground cables and approximately 700 major substations.
        
   22   

Table of Contents  

Item 3.   
   Legal Proceedings         Berkshire and its subsidiaries
are parties in a variety of legal actions arising out of the normal course of business. In particular, such legal actions affect Berkshire s insurance and reinsurance businesses. Such litigation generally seeks to establish liability directly
through insurance contracts or indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries. Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. Berkshire does not believe that such normal and routine litigation will have a
material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Berkshire and certain of its subsidiaries are also involved in other kinds of legal actions, some of which assert or may assert claims or seek to impose fines and penalties in
substantial amounts.       a) Governmental Investigations       Berkshire, General Re Corporation ( General Re ) and certain of Berkshire s insurance subsidiaries, including General Reinsurance Corporation ( General Reinsurance ) and National Indemnity
Company ( NICO ) have been continuing to cooperate fully with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia and the New York State
Attorney General ( NYAG ) in their ongoing investigations of non-traditional products. General Re originally received subpoenas from the SEC and NYAG in January 2005. Berkshire, General Re, General Reinsurance and NICO have been providing
information to the government relating to transactions between General Reinsurance or NICO (or their respective subsidiaries or affiliates) and other insurers in response to the January 2005 subpoenas and related requests and, in the case of General
Reinsurance (or its subsidiaries or affiliates), in response to subpoenas from other U.S. Attorneys conducting investigations relating to certain of these transactions. In particular, Berkshire and General Re have been responding to requests from
the government for information relating to certain transactions that may have been accounted for incorrectly by counterparties of General Reinsurance (or its subsidiaries or affiliates). The government has interviewed a number of current and former
officers and employees of General Re and General Reinsurance as well as Berkshire s Chairman and CEO, Warren E. Buffett, in connection with these investigations.      In one case, a transaction initially effected with American International Group ( AIG ) in late 2000 (the  AIG Transaction ), AIG has corrected its prior accounting for the transaction on the
grounds, as stated in AIG s 2004 10-K, that the transaction was done to accomplish a desired accounting result and did not entail sufficient qualifying risk transfer to support reinsurance accounting. General Reinsurance has been named in
related civil actions brought against AIG. As part of their ongoing investigations, governmental authorities have also inquired about the accounting by certain of Berkshire s insurance subsidiaries for certain assumed and ceded finite
reinsurance transactions.      In June 2005, John Houldsworth, the former Chief Executive Officer of Cologne Reinsurance Company (Dublin)
Limited ( CRD ), a subsidiary of General Re, and Richard Napier, a former Senior Vice President of General Re who had served as an account representative for the AIG account, each pleaded guilty to a federal criminal charge of conspiring
with others to misstate certain AIG financial statements in connection with the AIG Transaction and entered into a partial settlement agreement with the SEC with respect to such matters.      On February 25, 2008, Ronald Ferguson, General Re s former Chief Executive Officer, Elizabeth Monrad, General Re s former Chief Financial
Officer, Christopher Garand, a former General Reinsurance Senior Vice President and Robert Graham, a former General Reinsurance Senior Vice President and Assistant General Counsel, were each convicted in a trial in the U.S. District Court for the
District of Connecticut on charges of conspiracy, mail fraud, securities fraud and making false statements to the SEC in connection with the AIG Transaction. These individuals have the right to appeal their convictions. Following their convictions,
each of these individuals agreed to a judgment of a forfeiture allegation which required them to be jointly and severally liable for a payment of $5 million to the U.S. Government. This $5 million amount, which represented the fee received by
General Reinsurance in connection with the AIG Transaction, was paid by General Reinsurance in April 2008. Each of these individuals, who had previously received a  Wells  notice in 2005 from the SEC, is also the subject of an SEC
enforcement action for allegedly aiding and abetting AIG s violations of the antifraud provisions and other provisions of the federal securities laws in connection with the AIG Transaction. The SEC case is presently stayed. Joseph Brandon, who
resigned as the Chief Executive Officer of General Re effective on April 14, 2008, also received a  Wells  notice from the SEC in 2005.      Berkshire understands that the government is evaluating the actions of General Re and its subsidiaries, as well as those of their counterparties, to determine whether General Re or its subsidiaries conspired with
others to misstate counterparty financial statements or aided and abetted such misstatements by the counterparties. Berkshire believes that government authorities are continuing to evaluate possible legal actions against General Re and its
subsidiaries.      Various state insurance departments have issued subpoenas or otherwise requested that General Reinsurance, NICO and their
affiliates provide documents and information relating to non-traditional products. The Office of the Connecticut Attorney  
       
   23   

Table of Contents  

General has also issued a subpoena to General Reinsurance for information relating to non-traditional products. General Reinsurance, NICO and their
affiliates have been cooperating fully with these subpoenas and requests.      CRD is also providing information to and cooperating fully with
the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority in its inquiries regarding the activities of CRD. The Office of the Director of Corporate Enforcement in Ireland is conducting a preliminary evaluation in relation to CRD concerning, in particular,
transactions between CRD and AIG. CRD is cooperating fully with this preliminary evaluation.       b) Civil Litigation        Litigation Related to ROA       General
Reinsurance and several current and former employees, along with numerous other defendants, have been sued in thirteen federal lawsuits involving Reciprocal of America ( ROA ) and related entities. ROA was a Virginia-based reciprocal
insurer and reinsurer of physician, hospital and lawyer professional liability risks. Nine are putative class actions initiated by doctors, hospitals and lawyers that purchased insurance through ROA or certain of its Tennessee-based risk retention
groups. These complaints seek compensatory, treble, and punitive damages in an amount plaintiffs contend is just and reasonable.      General
Reinsurance is also subject to actions brought by the Virginia Commissioner of Insurance, as Deputy Receiver of ROA, the Tennessee Commissioner of Insurance, as Receiver for purposes of liquidating three Tennessee risk retention groups, a state
lawsuit filed by a Missouri-based hospital group that was removed to federal court and another state lawsuit filed by an Alabama doctor that was also removed to federal court. The first of these actions was filed in March 2003 and additional actions
were filed in April 2003 through June 2006. In the action filed by the Virginia Commissioner of Insurance, the Commissioner asserts in several of its claims that the alleged damages are believed to exceed $200 million in the aggregate as against all
defendants.      All of these cases are collectively assigned to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Tennessee for pretrial
proceedings. General Reinsurance filed motions to dismiss all of the claims against it in these cases and, in June 2006, the court granted General Reinsurance s motion to dismiss the complaints of the Virginia and Tennessee receivers. The court
granted the Tennessee receiver leave to amend her complaint, and the Tennessee receiver filed her amended complaint on August 7, 2006. General Reinsurance has filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint in its entirety and that motion was
granted, with the court dismissing the claim based on an alleged violation of RICO with prejudice and dismissing the state law claims without prejudice. One of the other defendants filed a motion for the court to reconsider the dismissal of the
state law claims, requesting that the court retain jurisdiction over them. That motion is pending.      The Tennessee Receiver subsequently
filed three Tennessee state court actions against General Reinsurance, essentially asserting the same state law claims that had been dismissed without prejudice by the Federal court. General Reinsurance removed those actions to Federal court, and
the Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation ultimately transferred these actions to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Tennessee.      The Virginia receiver has moved for reconsideration of the dismissal and for leave to amend his complaint, which was opposed by General Reinsurance. The court affirmed its original ruling but has given the Virginia
receiver leave to amend. In September 2006, the court also dismissed the complaint filed by the Missouri-based hospital group. The Missouri-based hospital group has filed a motion for reconsideration of the dismissal and for leave to file an amended
complaint. General Reinsurance has filed its opposition to that motion and awaits a ruling by the court. The court has also not yet ruled on General Reinsurance s motions to dismiss the complaints of the other plaintiffs. The parties have
commenced discovery.      General Reinsurance filed a Complaint and a motion in federal court to compel the Tennessee and Virginia receivers to
arbitrate their claims against General Reinsurance. The receivers filed motions to dismiss the Complaint. These motions are pending.       Actions related to AIG       General Reinsurance is a defendant in In re American International Group Securities Litigation, Case
No. 04-CV-8141-(LTS), United States District Court, Southern District of New York, a putative class action (the  AIG Securities Litigation ) asserted on behalf of investors who purchased publicly-traded securities of AIG between
October 1999 and March 2005. The complaint, originally filed in April 2005, asserts various claims against AIG and certain of its officers, directors, investment banks and other parties, including Messrs. Ferguson, Napier and Houldsworth (whom the
Complaint  
       
   24   

Table of Contents  

defines, together with General Reinsurance, as the  General Re Defendants ). The Complaint alleges that the General Re Defendants violated
Section 10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 in connection with the AIG Transaction. The Complaint seeks damages and other relief in unspecified amounts. General Reinsurance has answered the Complaint, denying liability and
asserting various affirmative defenses. Discovery is ongoing, with a current discovery cut-off of December 1, 2009. Lead plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification on February 20, 2008. Various defendants, including General
Reinsurance, have filed oppositions to class certification. The court has not yet ruled on the motion. On May 29, 2008, General Reinsurance filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings. Plaintiffs filed an opposition to that motion on
June 30, 2008. The court has not ruled on that motion. The lead plaintiffs and General Reinsurance have reached agreement concerning the terms of a settlement that would resolve all claims against the General Re Defendants in exchange for a
payment by General Reinsurance of $72 million. This settlement remains subject to court approval.      A member of the putative class in the
litigation described in the preceding paragraph has asserted similar claims against General Re and Mr. Ferguson in a separate complaint, Florida State Board of Administration v. General Re Corporation, et al., Case No. 06-CV-3967, United
States District Court, Southern District of New York. The claims against General Re and Mr. Ferguson closely resemble those asserted in the class action. The complaint does not specify the amount of damages sought. General Re has answered the
Complaint, denying liability and asserting various affirmative defenses. No trial date has been established. The parties are coordinating discovery and other proceedings among this action, a similar action filed by the same plaintiff against AIG and
others, the class action described in the preceding paragraph, and the shareholder derivative actions described in the next two paragraphs.      On July 27, 2005, General Reinsurance received a Summons and a Verified and Amended Shareholder Derivative Complaint in In re American International Group, Inc. Derivative Litigation, Case No. 04-CV-08406, United States District
Court, Southern District of New York. The complaint, brought by several alleged shareholders of AIG, seeks damages, injunctive and declaratory relief against various officers and directors of AIG as well as a variety of individuals and entities with
whom AIG did business, relating to a wide variety of allegedly wrongful practices by AIG. The allegations relating to General Reinsurance focus on the AIG Transaction, and the complaint purports to assert causes of action in connection with that
transaction for aiding and abetting other defendants  breaches of fiduciary duty and for unjust enrichment. The complaint does not specify the amount of damages or the nature of any other relief sought. Subsequently, this derivative litigation
was stayed by stipulation between the plaintiffs and AIG. That stay remains in place.      In August 2005, General Reinsurance received a
Summons and First Amended Consolidated Shareholders  Derivative Complaint in In re American International Group, Inc. Consolidated Derivative Litigation, Case No. 769-N, Delaware Chancery Court. In June 2007, AIG filed an Amended Complaint
in the Delaware Derivative Litigation asserting claims against two of its former officers, but not against General Reinsurance. On September 28, 2007, AIG and the shareholder plaintiffs filed a Second Combined Amended Complaint, in which AIG
asserted claims against certain of its former officers and the shareholder plaintiffs asserted claims against a number of other defendants, including General Reinsurance and General Re. The claims asserted in the Delaware complaint are substantially
similar to those asserted in the New York derivative complaint, except that the Delaware complaint makes clear that the plaintiffs are asserting claims against both General Reinsurance and General Re. General Reinsurance and General Re filed a
motion to dismiss on November 30, 2007. Various parties moved to stay discovery and/or all proceedings in the Delaware derivative litigation. At a hearing held on February 12, 2008, the Court ruled that discovery would be stayed pending
the resolution of the claims asserted against AIG in the AIG Securities Litigation. The briefing on the motions filed by General Reinsurance and General Re was completed by September 8, 2008. The court heard argument on certain other
defendants  motions to dismiss on November 7, 2008 and issued a decision on February 10, 2009 granting some defendants  motions and denying others. The court has not yet heard oral argument on the motions filed by General
Reinsurance and General Re and has not ruled on those motions.       FAI/HIH Matter       In December 2003, the Liquidators of both FAI Insurance Limited ( FAI ) and HIH Insurance Limited ( HIH ) advised GRA and Cologne Re
that they intended to assert claims arising from insurance transactions GRA entered into with FAI in May and June 1998. In August 2004, the Liquidators filed claims in the Supreme Court of New South Wales in order to avoid the expiration of a
statute of limitations for certain plaintiffs. The focus of the Liquidators  allegations against GRA and Cologne Re are the 1998 transactions GRA entered into with FAI (which was acquired by HIH in 1999). The Liquidators contend, among other
things, that GRA and Cologne Re engaged in deceptive conduct that assisted FAI in improperly accounting for such transactions as reinsurance, and that such deception led to HIH s acquisition of FAI and caused various losses to FAI and HIH. The
Liquidator of HIH served its Complaint on GRA and Cologne Re in June 2006 and discovery has been ongoing. The FAI Liquidator dismissed his complaint against GRA and Cologne Re. GRA and Cologne Re recently entered into a settlement in principle with
the HIH Liquidator. The parties are still formulating a settlement deed, which will be subject to court approval.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

Item 4.   
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders         None       Executive Officers of the Registrant       Following is a list of the Registrant s executive officers:       
    Each executive officer serves, in accordance with the by-laws of the Registrant, until the first
meeting of the Board of Directors following the next annual meeting of shareholders and until his respective successor is chosen and qualified or until he sooner dies, resigns, is removed or becomes disqualified. Mr. Buffett and Mr. Munger
also serve as directors of the Registrant.       Part II        

Item 5.   
   Market for Registrant s Common Stock and Related Security Holder Matters          Market Information       Berkshire s Class A and Class B Common Stock are listed for trading on
the New York Stock Exchange, trading symbol: BRK.A and BRK.B. The following table sets forth the high and low sales prices per share, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite List during the periods indicated:       
     Shareholders       Berkshire had approximately 4,200 record holders of its Class A Common Stock and 13,900 record holders of its Class B Common Stock at February 15, 2009. Record owners included nominees holding at least
530,000 shares of Class A Common Stock and 14,500,000 shares of Class B Common Stock on behalf of beneficial-but-not-of-record owners.       Dividends
      Berkshire has not declared a cash dividend since 1967.       
  
   26   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
   Selected Financial Data          Selected Financial Data for the Past
Five Years        (dollars in millions except per share data)    

(1)        
      Insurance premiums earned in 2007 included $7.1 billion from a single
reinsurance transaction with Equitas.              

(2)        
      On February 9, 2006, Berkshire Hathaway converted its non-voting preferred
stock of MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company ( MidAmerican ) to common stock and upon conversion, owned approximately 83.4% (80.5% diluted) of the voting common stock interests. Accordingly, the Consolidated Financial Statements for each
of the last three years reflect the consolidation of the accounts of MidAmerican. Berkshire s investment in MidAmerican was accounted for pursuant to the equity method in 2004 and 2005.      

(3)        
      The amount of investment and derivative gains and losses for any given period
has no predictive value, and variations in amount from period to period have no practical analytical value. After-tax investment and derivative gains/losses were $(4.65) billion in 2008, $3.58 billion in 2007, $1.71 billion in 2006, $3.53 billion in
2005 and $2.26 billion in 2004. Investment and derivative gains/losses in 2008 include non-cash pre-tax losses of $5.0 billion ($3.25 billion after-tax) relating to long duration equity index put option contracts and $1.8 billion ($1.2 billion
after-tax) relating to other-than-temporary impairments of certain investment securities. Investment and derivative gains/losses in 2005 include a non-cash pre-tax gain of $5.0 billion ($3.25 billion after-tax) relating to the exchange of Gillette
stock for Procter   Gamble stock.               

(4)        
      Net earnings for the year ended December 31, 2005 includes a pre-tax
underwriting loss of $3.4 billion in connection with Hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Wilma that struck the Gulf coast and Southeast regions of the United States. Such loss reduced net earnings by approximately $2.2 billion.                 
   27   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations          Results of Operations       Net earnings for each of the past three years are disaggregated in the table
that follows. Amounts are after deducting income taxes and minority interests and are in millions.       
    Berkshire s operating businesses are managed on an unusually decentralized basis. There are
essentially no centralized or integrated business functions (such as sales, marketing, purchasing, legal or human resources) and there is minimal involvement by Berkshire s corporate headquarters in the day-to-day business activities of the
operating businesses. Berkshire s corporate office management participates in and is ultimately responsible for significant capital allocation decisions, investment activities and the selection of the Chief Executive to head each of the
operating businesses. The business segment data (Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements) should be read in conjunction with this discussion.      During 2008, a series of crises occurred in the U.S. financial and capital markets systems, as well as in the credit and housing markets. These conditions accelerated into an economic recession, as evidenced by
declining consumer confidence, lower consumer spending, bankruptcies and significant job losses. The declining economic conditions worsened over the last half of 2008 and in the fourth quarter in particular. Equity and debt markets have seen major
declines in market prices on a worldwide basis as well, which have negatively impacted the fair value of Berkshire s investments and derivative contracts. During 2008, the net after-tax unrealized gains in Berkshire s equity investment
portfolio declined by approximately $13.9 billion. In addition, during 2008, after-tax investment and derivative losses of $4.6 billion were included in earnings and primarily related to non-cash fair value adjustments of certain derivative contract
liabilities and non-cash other-than-temporary impairment charges with respect to certain investments offset to a degree by net realized gains from investment sales.      Berkshire s insurance, manufacturing, service, retailing and finance and financial products businesses were impacted by the recession in different ways and to varying degrees. Operating results in 2008 for most
of Berkshire s manufacturing, service and retailing businesses were generally lower than in 2007. It is likely that the current economic conditions will persist through 2009 and in to 2010 before meaningful improvements become evident.
Berkshire s operating companies have taken and will continue to take cost reduction actions in response to the current economic situation, including curtailing production, reducing capital expenditures, closing facilities and reducing
employment to partially compensate for the declines in demand for goods and services. Berkshire has historically attempted to manage its financial condition such that it can weather cyclical economic conditions. Management believes that the economic
franchises of Berkshire s business operations will remain intact and that operating results will ultimately return to more normal historical levels.        Insurance Underwriting        Berkshire engages in both primary insurance and reinsurance of
property and casualty risks. In primary insurance activities, Berkshire subsidiaries assume defined portions of the risks of loss from persons or organizations that are directly subject to the risks. In reinsurance activities, Berkshire subsidiaries
assume defined portions of similar or dissimilar risks that other insurers or reinsurers have subjected themselves to in their own insuring activities. Berkshire s principal insurance and reinsurance businesses are: (1) GEICO,
(2) General Re, (3) Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group and (4) Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group. Through General Re, Berkshire also reinsures life and health risks.      Berkshire s management views insurance businesses as possessing two distinct operations   underwriting and investing. Underwriting decisions
are the responsibility of the unit managers; investing, with limited exceptions, is the responsibility of Berkshire s Chairman and CEO, Warren E. Buffett. Accordingly, Berkshire evaluates performance of underwriting operations without any
allocation of investment income.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)            
  
   Periodic underwriting results can be affected significantly by changes in estimates for unpaid losses
and loss adjustment expenses, including amounts established for occurrences in prior years. See the Critical Accounting Policies section of this discussion for information concerning the loss reserve estimation process. In addition, the timing and
amount of catastrophe losses produce significant volatility in periodic underwriting results. Berkshire s property and casualty reinsurance operations benefited from relatively minor levels of catastrophe losses in 2007 and 2006. During 2008,
Berkshire s underwriting results include estimated losses of approximately $900 million from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. The impact on earnings of these losses was substantially offset by unrealized foreign currency transaction gains during the
last half of 2008 that arose from the valuation of certain non-U.S. Dollar denominated reinsurance liabilities as a result of the significant strengthening of the U.S. Dollar.      A key marketing strategy followed by all of the insurance businesses is the maintenance of extraordinary capital strength. Statutory surplus of
Berkshire s insurance businesses was approximately $51 billion at December 31, 2008. This superior capital strength creates opportunities, especially with respect to reinsurance activities, to negotiate and enter into insurance and
reinsurance contracts specially designed to meet the unique needs of insurance and reinsurance buyers. Additional information regarding Berkshire s insurance and reinsurance operations follows.      A summary follows of underwriting results from Berkshire s insurance businesses for the past three years. Amounts are in millions.       
     GEICO       GEICO provides primarily private passenger automobile coverages to insureds in 49 states and the District of Columbia. GEICO policies are marketed mainly by direct response methods in which customers apply for
coverage directly to the company via the Internet, over the telephone or through the mail. This is a significant element in GEICO s strategy to be a low-cost insurer. In addition, GEICO strives to provide excellent service to customers, with
the goal of establishing long-term customer relationships.      GEICO s underwriting results for the past three years are summarized
below. Dollars are in millions.       
       
   29   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)        
    GEICO (Continued)             Premiums earned in 2008 increased 5.7% over 2007, reflecting an 8.2% increase in voluntary auto policies-in-force partially
offset by lower average premiums per policy. Average premiums per policy declined during 2007 but leveled off in 2008. The weakening economy could result in downward pressure on average premiums per policy in 2009 to the extent that consumers raise
deductibles and reduce coverages to save money. Policies-in-force over the last twelve months increased 6.6% in the preferred risk auto line and increased 13.1% in the standard and nonstandard auto lines. Voluntary auto new business sales in 2008
increased 2.0% compared to 2007. Voluntary auto policies-in-force at December 31, 2008 were 665,000 higher than at December 31, 2007.      Losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred in 2008 increased 9.5% over 2007. The loss ratio was 74.8% in 2008 versus 72.2% in 2007. Incurred losses from catastrophe events for 2008 were $87 million compared to $34 million for 2007.
Overall, the increase in the loss ratio reflected higher average claim severities and lower average premiums per policy, partially offset by lower average claims frequencies. Claims frequencies in 2008 for physical damage coverages decreased in the
seven to nine percent range from 2007 and frequencies for injury coverages decreased in the four to six percent range. Physical damage severities in 2008 increased in the six to eight percent range and injury severities increased in the five to
eight percent range over 2007.      Underwriting expenses in 2008 increased $61 million (2.8%) over 2007. Policy acquisition expenses
increased 8.5% in 2008 to $1,508 million, primarily due to increased advertising and policy issuance costs. The increase in policy acquisition expenses was partially offset by lower other underwriting expenses, including lower interest on deferred
compensation liabilities.      Premiums earned in 2007 increased 6.8% over 2006, due to higher numbers of policies-in-force, partially offset
by lower premiums per policy as a result of overall lower rates. Losses and loss adjustment expenses in 2007 increased 10.0% over 2006, reflecting the aforementioned decline in average premiums per policy. In 2007, claims frequencies for physical
damage coverages increased in the two to four percent range over 2006 while frequencies for injury coverages decreased in the three to five percent range. Physical damage severities increased in the second half of 2007 at an annualized rate of two
to four percent. Injury severities also increased in the latter part of 2007 at an annualized rate of three to six percent.       General Re
      General Re conducts a reinsurance business offering property and casualty and life and health coverages to clients worldwide. Property
and casualty reinsurance is written in North America on a direct basis through General Reinsurance Corporation and internationally through Cologne Re (based in Germany) and other affiliates. Property and casualty reinsurance is also written through
brokers with respect to Faraday in London. Life and health reinsurance is written worldwide through Cologne Re. General Re strives to generate underwriting gains in essentially all of its product lines. Underwriting performance is not evaluated
based upon market share and underwriters are instructed to reject inadequately priced risks. General Re s underwriting results are summarized for the past three years in the following table. Amounts are in millions.       
       
   30   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)        
    General Re (Continued)              Property/casualty       Premiums written in 2008 declined 2.7% from 2007, which declined 2.9% versus 2006. Premiums written in 2008 included $205 million with respect to a reinsurance-to-close transaction that increased General Re s
economic interest in the runoff of Lloyd s Syndicate 435 s 2000 year of account from 39% to 100%. A similar transaction in 2007 generated $114 million of premiums written and increased General Re s economic interest in the runoff of
Lloyd s Syndicate 435 s 2001 year of account from 60% to 100%. Neither of the reinsurance-to-close transactions had any impact on net underwriting results because premiums earned were offset by corresponding increases to loss reserves and
losses incurred. There was no similar transaction in 2006.      Premiums earned in 2008 declined 5.0% from 2007, which declined 2.6% from 2006.
Excluding the effects of the previously mentioned reinsurance-to-close transactions and exchange rates, premiums earned declined 8.2% in 2008 compared to 2007 and 10.1% in 2007 compared to 2006. The overall comparative declines in written and earned
premiums reflect continued underwriting discipline by declining to accept business where pricing is considered inadequate with respect to the risk. Competitive conditions currently prevailing within the industry could lead to continued declines in
business written in 2009.      Pre-tax underwriting results in 2008 included $275 million in underwriting gains from property business
partially offset by $112 million in underwriting losses from casualty/workers  compensation business. The property business produced underwriting losses of $120 million for the 2008 accident year, offset by $395 million of gains from favorable
run-off of prior years  losses. The current accident year results include $174 million of catastrophe losses from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and $56 million of catastrophe losses from European storms. The timing and magnitude of catastrophe and
large individual losses produce significant volatility in periodic underwriting results. The pre-tax underwriting losses from casualty/workers  compensation business in 2008 included $117 million of workers  compensation loss reserve
discount accretion and retroactive reinsurance deferred charge amortization, offset in part by favorable run-off in other casualty lines. The casualty results were adversely impacted by legal costs incurred in connection with the ongoing regulatory
investigations of finite reinsurance.      Pre-tax underwriting results in 2007 included $519 million in underwriting gains from property
business, partially offset by $44 million in underwriting losses from casualty/workers  compensation business. The property business produced underwriting gains of $90 million for the 2007 accident year and $429 million from favorable
run-off of prior years  losses. The pre-tax underwriting losses from casualty business in 2007 included $120 million of loss reserve discount accretion and deferred charge amortization, as well as legal costs associated with the finite
reinsurance investigations. These charges were largely offset by underwriting gains in other casualty business.      Pre-tax underwriting
results in 2006 included $708 million in underwriting gains from property business, partially offset by $335 million in underwriting losses from casualty/workers  compensation business, which included legal and estimated settlement costs
associated with the finite reinsurance regulatory investigations. The 2006 property results benefited from a lack of catastrophe losses and favorable runoff of prior years  claim reserves. The underwriting losses from casualty business in 2006
included $137 million in reserve discount accretion and deferred charge amortization, increases in prior years  workers  compensation reserves of $103 million and increases in asbestos and environmental reserves.       Life/health       Premiums earned in 2008
increased 4.8% over 2007, which increased 4.1% over 2006. Adjusting for the effects of foreign currency exchange rates, premiums earned increased 2.2% over 2007 which were relatively unchanged when compared to 2006. The increase in premiums earned
in 2008 was primarily from life business in North America. Underwriting results for the life/health operations produced pre-tax underwriting gains in each of the past three years driven by gains from the life business primarily as a result of lower
mortality rates.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)            
  
    Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group       The Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group ( BHRG ) underwrites excess-of-loss reinsurance and quota-share coverages for insurers and reinsurers
worldwide. BHRG s business includes catastrophe excess-of-loss reinsurance and excess direct and facultative reinsurance for large or otherwise unusual discrete property risks referred to as individual risk. Retroactive reinsurance policies
provide indemnification of losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to past loss events. Other multi-line refers to other business written on both a quota-share and excess basis, participations in and contracts with Lloyd s syndicates
as well as property, aviation and workers  compensation programs. BHRG s underwriting results are summarized in the table below. Amounts are in millions.       
    Catastrophe and individual risk contracts may provide exceptionally large limits of
indemnification, often several hundred million dollars and occasionally in excess of $1 billion, and cover catastrophe risks (such as hurricanes, earthquakes or other natural disasters) or other property risks (such as aviation and aerospace,
commercial multi-peril or terrorism). The timing and magnitude of losses produce extraordinary volatility in periodic underwriting results of BHRG s catastrophe and individual risk business. BHRG does not cede these risks to mitigate volatility
as management accepts such potential volatility provided that the long-term prospect of achieving underwriting profits is reasonable.      Premiums earned from catastrophe and individual risk contracts in 2008 declined 39% from 2007, which decreased 28% versus 2006. Catastrophe and individual risk premiums written were approximately $1.1 billion in 2008, $1.2 billion in 2007
and $2.4 billion in 2006. The decreases in premium volume were principally attributable to increased industry capacity for catastrophe reinsurance, which has produced increased price competition and fewer opportunities to write business at prices
considered adequate by BHRG management. The level of catastrophe and individual risk business written in a given period will vary significantly based upon market conditions and management s assessment of the adequacy of premium rates.
     During 2008, Berkshire entered into a contract under which it received a payment of $224 million and agreed to purchase, under certain
conditions, up to $4 billion of revenue bonds issued by the Florida Hurricane Catastrophe Fund Finance Corporation. Berkshire s obligation was conditioned upon, among other things, the occurrence of a specified amount of hurricane losses
in Florida during a period that expired on December 31, 2008. The minimum amount of hurricane losses required to trigger Berkshire s acquisition of the bonds was not met and the consideration received was earned as of December 31, 2008 and
is included in the underwriting results of the catastrophe and individual risk business.      Underwriting results in 2008 for the catastrophe
and individual risk business also included approximately $270 million of estimated losses from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. The underwriting results from catastrophe and individual risk business in 2007 and 2006 reflected no significant losses
from catastrophe events occurring in those years. In 2006, BHRG incurred losses of approximately $200 million attributable to prior years  events, primarily Hurricane Wilma which occurred in the fourth quarter of 2005.      Retroactive policies normally provide very large, but limited indemnification of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses with respect to past loss
events that are expected to be paid over long periods of time. Underwriting losses from retroactive reinsurance include the amortization of deferred charges established on the contracts. At the inception of a contract, deferred charges represent the
difference between the premium received and the estimated ultimate losses payable. Deferred charges are amortized over the estimated claims payment period using the interest method. The amortization charges are based on the estimated timing and
amount of loss payments and are recorded as a component of losses and loss adjustment expenses.      Premiums earned from retroactive
reinsurance in 2007 included $7.1 billion from the Equitas reinsurance agreement which became effective on March 30, 2007. See Note 13 to the accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements. Otherwise,  
       
   32   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)        
    Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group (Continued)            
 premiums earned from retroactive contracts were relatively minor over the past three years. Unamortized deferred charges of BHRG s retroactive contracts
(including the Equitas contract) were $3.7 billion at December 31, 2008 and $3.8 billion at December 31, 2007. Gross unpaid losses under retroactive contracts were approximately $16.6 billion at December 31, 2008 and $17.3 billion at
December 31, 2007.      Underwriting losses from retroactive reinsurance policies in each year were primarily attributable to recurring
deferred charge amortization. Underwriting losses from retroactive policies in 2007 included deferred charge amortization of $156 million on contracts written in 2007 (primarily the Equitas contract). Underwriting losses from retroactive reinsurance
in 2006 were net of gains of approximately $145 million which primarily derived from contracts that were commuted or amended during that year.      Other multi-line premiums earned in 2008 increased $1.31 billion (50%) over 2007. Premiums earned in 2008 included $1.83 billion from a quota-share contract with Swiss Reinsurance Company Ltd. and its major property/casualty affiliates
( Swiss Re ) that became effective January 1, 2008. Under the agreement, BHRG assumes a 20% quota-share of the premiums and related losses and expenses on substantially all property/casualty risks of Swiss Re written over the five
year period ending December 31, 2012. BHRG s written premium under this agreement in 2008 was $2.65 billion. Actual premiums assumed over the remainder of the five year period could vary significantly depending on Swiss Re s response
to market conditions and opportunities that arise over the contract term. Excluding the premiums from the Swiss Re quota-share contract, other multi-line premiums earned in 2008 declined 20% versus 2007 principally attributable to lower premium
volume from workers  compensation programs.      Other multi-line business produced a pre-tax underwriting gain of $962 million in 2008.
This gain included $930 million of foreign currency transaction gains (including approximately $615 million in the fourth quarter) arising from the conversion of certain reinsurance liabilities denominated and settled in foreign currencies
(primarily the U.K. Pound Sterling and the Euro) into U.S. Dollars as of the balance sheet date. The value of these currencies versus the U.S. Dollar generally increased over the past several years resulting in accumulated liabilities and
transaction losses. Over the last half of 2008, these currencies declined sharply versus the U.S. Dollar, resulting in gains that exceeded the previously recorded losses.      Excluding the effects of the currency gains/losses, other multi-line business produced a pre-tax underwriting gain of $32 million in 2008 compared to
$435 million in 2007. Pre-tax underwriting results in 2008 included approximately $435 million of estimated catastrophe losses from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike. There were no significant catastrophe losses in 2007, which also benefited from
relatively low property loss ratios and favorable loss experience on workers  compensation business.      Other multi-line premiums earned
in 2007 were relatively unchanged from 2006, reflecting significant increases in property business and significant decreases in casualty excess reinsurance. In addition, as of the beginning of 2007, the management of certain workers 
compensation business was transferred to the Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group and the related underwriting results have been excluded from BHRG since that date.      In December 2007, BHRG formed a monoline financial guarantee insurance company, Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corporation ( BHAC ). BHAC commenced operations during the first quarter of 2008 and is licensed
in 49 states. As of December 31, 2008, BHAC had approximately $1 billion in capital and has received the highest rating available from two credit rating agencies. BHRG is pursuing opportunities to write financial guarantee insurance on
municipal bonds. In its first year of operation, BHAC produced $595 million of written premiums. The impact of this new business on 2008 underwriting results was minimal, since the coverage periods related to the insured bonds extend over 40 years
into the future.      In January 2009, BHRG agreed to cover certain Swiss Re entities for adverse loss development of its property and casualty
loss reserves up to 5 billion Swiss Francs in excess of its December 31, 2008 loss reserves less 2 billion Swiss Francs. BHRG will receive a premium of 2 billion Swiss Francs for providing this coverage.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Insurance Underwriting    (Continued)            
  
    Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group       Berkshire s primary insurance group consists of a wide variety of independently managed insurance businesses that principally write liability
coverages for commercial accounts. These businesses include: Medical Protective Corporation ( MedPro ), a provider of professional liability insurance to physicians, dentists and other healthcare providers; National Indemnity
Company s primary group operation ( NICO Primary Group ), a writer of commercial motor vehicle and general liability coverages; U.S. Investment Corporation, whose subsidiaries underwrite specialty insurance coverages; a group of
companies referred to internally as  Homestate  operations, providers of standard commercial multi-line insurance; Central States Indemnity Company, a provider of credit and disability insurance to individuals nationwide through financial
institutions; Applied Underwriters, a provider of integrated workers  compensation solutions; and BoatU.S., (acquired in August 2007) which writes insurance for owners of boats and small watercraft.      Earned premiums by the primary insurance businesses were $1,950 million in 2008, $1,999 million in 2007 and $1,858 million in 2006. Roughly 33% of the
premiums earned in each year were from MedPro. In 2008, premiums earned by the NICO Primary Group declined by approximately 30%, which was partially offset by increased premiums earned from the Homestate operations and BoatU.S. Pre-tax underwriting
gains as percentages of premiums earned were approximately 11% in 2008, 14% in 2007 and 18% in 2006. The decline in underwriting gains in 2008 from 2007 reflected declines in underwriting gains from the NICO Primary Group and Homestate operations,
which were primarily due to less favorable loss reserve development of prior years  occurrences as well as relatively higher losses for current year occurrences.        Insurance Investment Income        A summary of the net investment income of Berkshire s
insurance operations for the past three years follows. Amounts are in millions.       
    Investment income consists of interest earned on cash equivalents and fixed maturity investments
and dividends earned on equity investments. Pre-tax investment income earned in 2008 was relatively unchanged from 2007. Investment income earned in 2007 increased $442 million (10%) over 2006. The increase in 2007 over 2006 reflected increased
invested assets, higher short-term interest rates in the United States and increased dividend rates on certain equity investments.      In
2008, dividend income increased $534 million, reflecting increased investments in equity securities and increased dividend rates with respect to certain securities. The increase in dividends earned was offset by a decline in interest earned,
reflecting lower levels of related fixed maturity investments and generally lower interest rates applicable to cash equivalents and short-term investments. In October 2008, Berkshire subsidiaries acquired the Wrigley, Goldman Sachs and General
Electric securities for an aggregate cost of $14.5 billion. See Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Interest and dividends from these securities will be approximately $1.4 billion per annum, which is substantially greater than
earnings currently expected from short-term investments.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Insurance Investment Income    (Continued)              
   A summary of investments held in Berkshire s insurance businesses follows. Amounts are in
millions.       

*  
   Other investments include the investments in Wrigley, Goldman Sachs and General Electric as well as investments in Burlington Northern and Moody s, which as of
December 31, 2008 are accounted for under the equity method. In 2007 and 2006, investments in Burlington Northern and Moody s are included in equity securities.         Fixed maturity investments as of December 31, 2008 were as follows. Amounts are in millions.       
    All U.S. government obligations are rated AAA by the major rating agencies and approximately 90%
of all state, municipal and political subdivisions, foreign government obligations and mortgage-backed securities were rated AA or higher. Non-investment grade securities represent securities that are rated below BBB- or Baa3.      Invested assets derive from shareholder capital and reinvested earnings as well as net liabilities under insurance contracts or  float.  The
major components of float are unpaid losses, unearned premiums and other liabilities to policyholders less premiums and reinsurance receivables, deferred charges assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts and deferred policy acquisition costs.
Float approximated $58 billion at December 31, 2008, $59 billion at December 31, 2007 and $51 billion at December 31, 2006. The increase in float in 2007 was principally due to the Equitas reinsurance transaction. The cost of float,
as represented by the ratio of underwriting gain or loss to average float, was negative for the last three years, as Berkshire s insurance businesses generated underwriting gains in each year.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)            
     Utilities and Energy ( MidAmerican )        Revenues and earnings of MidAmerican for each of the past three years are summarized below. Amounts are in millions.       

*    
   Includes interest earned by Berkshire (net of related income taxes).          

**    
   Net of $58 million deferred income tax benefit in 2007 as a result of the reduction in the United Kingdom corporate income tax rate from 30% to 28% which was enacted during the
third quarter of 2007 and became effective in 2008.         Berkshire currently owns an 88.2% (87.4% diluted) interest in
MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company ( MidAmerican ), an international energy company. MidAmerican s domestic regulated energy interests are comprised of two regulated utility companies (MidAmerican Energy Company ( MEC ) and
PacifiCorp) serving over 3 million retail customers and two interstate natural gas pipeline companies (Northern Natural Gas and Kern River) with approximately 17,000 miles of pipeline in operation and design capacity of about 7.0 billion cubic
feet of natural gas per day. In the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), electricity distribution subsidiaries serve about 3.8 million electricity end users. The rates that MidAmerican s utilities, electricity distribution and natural gas
pipeline businesses may charge customers for energy and other services are generally subject to regulatory approval. Rates are based in large part on the costs of business operations, including a return on capital. To the extent these operations are
not allowed to include such costs in the approved rates, operating results will be adversely affected. In addition, MidAmerican s other businesses include a diversified portfolio of independent power projects and the second-largest residential
real estate brokerage firm in the United States.      MEC s revenues in 2008 increased $417 million (10%) over 2007. The
increase reflects (1) increased regulated natural gas revenues from cost based price increases that are largely passed on to customers, (2) increased non-regulated gas revenues due primarily to higher prices and, to a lesser degree,
increased volume and (3) increased wholesale regulated electricity revenues driven by volume increases. Earnings before corporate interest and income taxes ( EBIT ) of MEC in 2008 increased $13 million (3%) versus 2007, resulting
primarily from higher operating margins on wholesale regulated electricity and slightly higher margins from regulated gas sales, partially offset by increased interest expense and lower miscellaneous income.      PacifiCorp s revenues in 2008 increased $239 million (6%) over 2007. The increase was primarily related to higher retail revenues due to
regulator approved rate increases as well as increased customer growth and usage. PacifiCorp s EBIT in 2008 increased $11 million (2%) versus 2007, as higher revenues were substantially offset by increased fuel costs and interest expense.
        
   36   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Utilities and Energy ( MidAmerican )    (Continued)              
   Natural gas pipelines revenues in 2008 increased $133 million (12%) over 2007. The increase
reflected increased transportation revenue as a result of stronger market conditions in the Northern Natural Gas system, the impact of system expansion projects and changes related to the Kern River system current rate proceeding. EBIT in 2008 of
the gas pipeline businesses increased $122 million (26%) over 2007. The increase in EBIT reflects the impact of increased revenues.      U.K. utility revenues in 2008 declined $113 million (10%) versus 2007 primarily from the effect of the significant strengthening of the U.S. Dollar versus the U.K. Pound Sterling over the second half of 2008. EBIT in
2008 was relatively unchanged from 2007 as the revenue decline was offset primarily by lower operating costs and interest expense.      Real
estate brokerage revenues in 2008 declined $364 million (24%) compared to 2007 due to significant declines in transaction volume as well as lower average home sales prices. Real estate brokerage activities generated a loss before interest
and taxes of $45 million in 2008 versus EBIT of $42 million in 2007. The loss in 2008 reflected the continuing weak U.S. housing markets.      In the fourth quarter of 2008, EBIT from other activities included a gain of $917 million from MidAmerican s investments in Constellation Energy as well as a fee of $175 million received as a result of the termination of the planned
acquisition of Constellation Energy. EBIT from other activities in 2006 included gains of $117 million primarily from the disposal of equity securities. There were no significant securities gains in 2007.      MEC s revenues in 2007 increased $806 million (23%) over 2006. MEC s non-regulated energy sales in 2007 exceeded 2006 by $597 million
primarily due to improved market opportunities. MEC s regulated wholesale and retail electricity sales in 2007 exceeded 2006 by $155 million, which reflected the impact of new generating assets and improved opportunities in wholesale markets as
well as higher retail demand due to warmer temperatures and increases in the number of retail customers. EBIT of MEC in 2007 increased $64 million (18%), reflecting the margins on the increases in regulated and non-regulated energy sales, partially
offset by higher facilities operating and maintenance costs.      PacifiCorp s revenues in 2007 increased $1,348 million (45%) and
EBIT increased $336 million (94%) versus 2006. Revenues and EBIT of PacifiCorp for 2006 are included beginning as of the acquisition date (March 21, 2006). In 2007, PacifiCorp s revenues and EBIT were favorably impacted by
regulatory-approved rate increases and higher customer usage in retail markets, as well as increased margins on wholesale electricity sales, partially offset by higher fuel and purchased power costs.      Revenues from natural gas pipelines in 2007 increased $116 million (12%) over 2006 due primarily to favorable market conditions and because revenues
in 2006 reflected the impact of estimated rate case refunds to customers. EBIT in 2007 from natural gas pipelines increased $97 million (26%) over 2006 mainly due to comparatively higher revenue and lower depreciation due to expected changes in
depreciation rates in connection with a current rate proceeding.      Revenues from U.K. utilities in 2007 increased over the comparable 2006
period primarily attributable to the strengthening of the U.K. Pound Sterling versus the U.S. Dollar as well as higher gas production and electricity distribution revenues. EBIT from the U.K. utilities in 2007 was essentially unchanged compared
to 2006 as higher maintenance and depreciation costs and the write-off of unsuccessful gas exploration costs offset the impact of higher revenues.      Revenues and EBIT in 2007 from real estate brokerage declined 12% and 43%, respectively, compared to 2006, primarily due to significantly lower transaction volume as a result of the slowdown in U.S. residential real estate activity.
        
   37   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)            
     Manufacturing, Service and Retailing        A summary of revenues and earnings of Berkshire s manufacturing, service and retailing businesses for each of the past three years follows. Amounts
are in millions.       

*    
   Management evaluates the results of NetJets using accounting standards for recognition of revenue and planned major maintenance expenses that were generally accepted when
Berkshire acquired NetJets but are no longer acceptable due to subsequent changes adopted by the FASB. Revenues and pre-tax earnings for the other service businesses shown above reflect these prior revenue and expense recognition methods. Revenues
shown above exceeded the amounts reported in Berkshire s Consolidated Financial Statements by $130 million in 2008, $709 million in 2007 and $781 million in 2006. Pre-tax earnings in this table exceeded (was less than) the amounts included
in the Consolidated Financial Statements by ($4 million) in 2008, $48 million in 2007 and $79 million in 2006.          Marmon
      Berkshire acquired a 60% interest in Marmon Holdings, Inc. ( Marmon ) on March 18, 2008. During the second quarter of
2008, Berkshire acquired additional shares and currently has a 63.6% interest. Marmon s operating results are included in Berkshire s consolidated results and in the preceding table from the date of the initial acquisition. Marmon consists
of approximately 130 manufacturing and service businesses that operate independently within 11 diverse business sectors. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for an additional description of Marmon s operations. For the twelve
months ending December 31, 2008, Marmon s consolidated revenues and operating income were $6,960 million and $977 million, respectively, compared to $6,934 million and $946 million, respectively in 2007.       McLane Company       McLane Company, Inc.,
( McLane ) is a wholesale distributor of grocery and non-food products to retailers, convenience stores and restaurants. McLane s business is marked by high sales volume and very low profit margins. McLane s revenues of $29,852
million in 2008 increased $1,773 million (6%) compared to 2007 which increased $2,386 million (9%) compared to 2006. The revenue increases in both 2008 and 2007 reflected additional grocery and foodservice customers as well as manufacturer
price increases and state excise tax increases.      Pre-tax earnings in 2008 increased $44 million over 2007, which was relatively unchanged
from 2006. The increase in 2008 reflected the increased sales and to a lesser degree a slight increase in gross margins. The gross margin rate was 5.91% in 2008 compared to 5.79% in 2007. The comparative increase in the gross margin rate reflected
price changes related to certain categories of grocery products and the impact of a heavy liquids sales surcharge. Operating expenses in 2008 as a percentage of revenues were relatively unchanged compared to 2007. Approximately one-third of
McLane s annual revenues are from Wal-Mart. A curtailment of purchasing by Wal-Mart could have a material adverse impact on McLane s earnings.       Shaw Industries       Shaw Industries ( Shaw ) is the world s largest manufacturer of
tufted broadloom carpets and is a full-service flooring company. Shaw revenues of $5,052 million in 2008 declined $321 million (6%) compared to 2007. The revenue decrease was primarily due to a reduction in year-to-date residential carpet sales
volume, partially offset by higher average selling prices and  
       
   38   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Manufacturing, Service and Retailing    (Continued)        
    Shaw Industries (Continued)            
 revenues from recent acquisitions. The decrease in residential carpet volume in 2008 reflected the significant downturn in residential real estate activity
that began in 2006 and was exacerbated by the credit crises during 2007 and 2008.      In 2008, pre-tax earnings declined $231 million
(53%) to $205 million. The decline was attributable to both lower sales volume and higher product costs. Increases in petrochemical based raw material costs along with reduced manufacturing efficiencies caused the product cost increase. The
gross margin rate for 2008 was approximately 3 percentage points lower as compared to 2007. Pre-tax earnings in 2008 also included $52 million of charges in the fourth quarter related to asset writedowns and plant closure costs. To offset the
impact of rising raw material and production costs, Shaw instituted multiple sales price increases in 2008 and closed certain manufacturing facilities. Management expects residential real estate activity and, as a result, Shaw s sales volume to
remain weak during 2009.      Revenues of $5,373 million in 2007 declined $461 million (8%) compared to 2006. In 2007, carpet volume
decreased 10% versus 2006 due to lower sales in residential markets, partially offset by a modest increase in commercial market volume. In 2007, pre-tax earnings decreased $158 million (27%) compared to 2006. The decline reflects the
aforementioned lower sales volume and higher product costs. These factors combined to produce declines in gross margin dollars in 2007 of approximately 17% versus 2006. Selling, general and administrative costs in 2007 declined approximately 6%
compared with 2006, reflecting lower sales volume and expense control efforts.       Other manufacturing       Berkshire s other manufacturing businesses include a wide array of businesses. Included in this group are several manufacturers of building products
(Acme Building Brands, Benjamin Moore, Johns Manville and MiTek) and apparel (led by Fruit of the Loom which includes the Russell athletic apparel and sporting goods business and the Vanity Fair Brands women s intimate apparel business). Also
included in this group are Forest River, a leading manufacturer of leisure vehicles, CTB International ( CTB ), a manufacturer of equipment for the livestock and agricultural industries and ISCAR Metalworking Companies ( IMC ),
an industry leader in the metal cutting tools business with operations worldwide. There are also numerous other manufacturers of consumer and commercial products in this diverse group.      Revenues of other manufacturing businesses in 2008 of $14,127 million declined $332 million (2%) versus 2007. The most significant declines were
from Forest River, the building products businesses and the apparel businesses. These were somewhat offset by increased revenues from IMC and from Richline, a jewelry manufacturer acquired during the second half of 2007. Pre-tax earnings of other
manufacturing businesses of $1,675 million in 2008, declined $362 million (18%) versus 2007. Pre-tax earnings declined or were flat in nearly all of Berkshire s other manufacturing operations with the exception of IMC. Pre-tax
earnings from Forest River declined 56%, due to lower sales volume. Pre-tax earnings from apparel declined 34%, primarily due to lower sales volume and costs incurred to consolidate certain operations of Russell and Vanity Fair Brands. Pre-tax
earnings from building products declined 28%, as a result of lower sales volumes and decreased manufacturing efficiencies as a consequence of the housing and credit crises.      Revenues in 2007 from other manufacturing activities were $14,459 million, an increase of $2,471 million (21%) over 2006. The comparative increase
was primarily attributable to the businesses acquired since mid-2006 as well as a significant increase from CTB. Revenues from the building products businesses declined $292 million in 2007 as demand was negatively affected by the slowdown in
housing construction activity. Pre-tax earnings were $2,037 million in 2007, an increase of $281 million (16%) over 2006. The increases were primarily due to full-year inclusion in 2007 of IMC and increased earnings of CTB, partially offset by
a 22% decline in earnings of the building products businesses.       Other service       Berkshire s other service businesses include NetJets, the world s leading provider of fractional ownership programs for general aviation
aircraft, and FlightSafety, a provider of high technology training to operators of aircraft. Among the other businesses included in this group are: TTI, a leading electronic components distributor (acquired March 2007); Business Wire, a leading
distributor of corporate news, multimedia and regulatory filings; The Pampered Chef, a direct seller of high quality kitchen tools; International Dairy Queen, a licensor and service provider to about 5,700 stores that offer prepared dairy treats and
food; The Buffalo News, a publisher of a daily and Sunday newspaper; and businesses that provide management and other services to insurance companies.         
   39   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Manufacturing, Service and Retailing    (Continued)        
    Other service (Continued)             In 2008, revenues of the group were $8,435 million, an increase of $643 million (8%) over 2007. The inclusion
of twelve months of revenues from TTI in 2008 versus nine months in 2007 accounted for over 80% of the revenue increase. Excluding the impact of TTI, other service revenues in 2008 increased 2% over 2007.      Pre-tax earnings of $971 million in 2008, were relatively unchanged from 2007. The impact from the TTI acquisition and increased earnings of
FlightSafety was offset by lower earnings from NetJets and Pampered Chef. In the fourth quarter of 2008, NetJets, and to a lesser degree Pampered Chef, experienced a significant reduction in revenue as general economic conditions worsened. This
resulted in lower customer usage and demand which negatively affected operating margins. In addition, NetJets incurred charges of $54 million to writedown the aircraft fleet.      Revenues from the other service businesses in 2007 increased $1,981 million (34%) and pre-tax earnings increased $310 million (47%) as compared
to 2006. The increase in revenues and pre-tax earnings in 2007 versus 2006 was attributable to the impact of business acquisitions (primarily TTI and Business Wire) as well as increased revenues and pre-tax earnings from FlightSafety and NetJets.
Both of these businesses benefited in 2007 from higher equipment (simulators and aircraft) utilization rates and from increased customer demand.       Retailing       Berkshire s retailing operations consist of four home furnishings (Nebraska Furniture Mart, R.C. Willey,
Star Furniture and Jordan s) and three jewelry (Borsheims, Helzberg and Ben Bridge) retailers. See s Candies is also included in this group. Retailing revenues were $3,104 million in 2008, a decrease of $293 million (9%) versus 2007.
Pre-tax earnings of $163 million in 2008 declined $111 million (41%) compared to 2007. Seven of the eight retail operations experienced revenue declines and all eight of these operations had declines in earnings compared to 2007. During the
first nine months of 2008, as the impact of the economic recession in the U.S. worsened, consumer spending declined. In the fourth quarter of 2008, the decline accelerated and conditions for most retailers throughout the U.S. deteriorated. Fourth
quarter of 2008 revenues and pre-tax earnings of Berkshire s retailers declined 17% and 33%, respectively, versus the fourth quarter of 2007.        Finance and Financial Products        A summary of revenues and earnings from Berkshire s finance and financial
products businesses follows. Amounts are in millions.       
    Revenues from manufactured housing and finance activities (Clayton Homes) in 2008 decreased
$105 million (3%) from 2007. The decrease included a 9% decline from home sales, reflecting declines in units sold and average selling prices. In addition, revenues in 2007 included approximately $90 million from the housing communities
division which was sold in the first quarter of 2008. Partially offsetting these declines was an increase in interest income from installment loans. The increase in interest income reflects higher average installment loan balances in 2008 versus
2007. Installment loan balances were approximately $12.6 billion as of December 31, 2008, an increase of approximately $1.5 billion since December 31, 2007. The increase was principally due to loan portfolio acquisitions.
     Pre-tax earnings of Clayton Homes in 2008 declined $320 million (61%) from 2007. Pre-tax earnings in 2008 included a
$125 million increase in the provision for estimated loan losses due to changes in loan collection and recovery assumptions,  
       
   40   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Finance and Financial Products    (Continued)              
  
 $25 million of losses arising from Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and $38 million from asset writedowns and plant closure costs. Pre-tax earnings in 2008 also
reflected the impact of lower home sales and higher interest expense from increased borrowings and an increase in interest rates. Partially offsetting these declines was a $22 million gain from the sale of the housing community division in the
first quarter of 2008.      Revenues and pre-tax earnings from furniture and transportation equipment leasing activities in 2008 declined
$37 million (5%) and $24 million (22%), respectively, compared to 2007. The declines primarily reflected lower rental income driven by relatively low utilization rates for over-the-road trailer and storage units, partially offset by the
impact of a small furniture rental business acquisition in 2008. Significant cost components of this business are fixed (depreciation and facility expenses), so earnings declined disproportionately to revenues. Revenues and pre-tax earnings for 2007
decreased $70 million (8%) and $71 million (39%), respectively, as compared to 2006, primarily for the reasons previously stated.      Earnings from other finance business activities consisted primarily of interest income earned on fixed maturity investments and from a small portfolio of commercial real estate loans. Pre-tax earnings in 2007 reflected a charge of
approximately $67 million from the adverse effects of changes in mortality assumptions on certain life annuity contract liabilities. In 2006, pre-tax earnings included income of $67 million from an equity purchase commitment fee.        Investment and Derivative Gains/Losses        A summary of investment and derivative gains and losses follows. Amounts are in millions.       
    Investment gains or losses are recognized upon the sales of investments, recognition of non-cash
other-than-temporary-impairment losses or as otherwise required under GAAP. The timing of realized gains or losses from sales can have a material effect on periodic earnings. However, such gains or losses usually have little, if any, impact on total
shareholders  equity because most equity and fixed maturity investments are carried at fair value with any unrealized gain or loss included as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income. The other-than-temporary-impairment losses
recorded in 2008 were primarily attributable to investments in certain equity securities. Berkshire considers several factors in determining impairment losses including the current and expected long-term business prospects of the issuer, the length
of time and relative magnitude of the price decline and its ability and intent to hold the investment until the price recovers.      Derivative
gains/losses in 2008 primarily represented the non-cash changes in fair value of credit default and equity index put option contracts. Changes in the fair values of these contracts are reflected in earnings and can be significant, reflecting the
volatility of equity and credit markets. Management does not view the periodic gains or losses from the changes in fair value as meaningful given the long-term nature of these contracts and the volatile nature of equity and credit markets over short
periods of time. Therefore, the ultimate amount of cash basis gains or losses may not be known for years.         
   41   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Investment and Derivative Gains/Losses    (Continued)              
   Losses from credit default contracts in 2008 derived primarily from valuation increases due to
significant widening of credit default spreads during the fourth quarter of 2008 with respect to the non-investment grade issuers included in the high yield index contracts and the credit default spreads of certain states and municipalities. The
estimated fair value of credit default contracts at December 31, 2008 was $4.1 billion, an increase of $2.3 billion from December 31, 2007. The year-to-date increase included fair value pre-tax losses of $1.8 billion and premiums
from contracts entered into in 2008 of $633 million, partially offset by loss payments of $152 million. In January 2009, there were defaults by six companies included in the high yield indexes. Estimated payments in the first quarter of 2009 related
to these defaults are expected to be approximately $750 million.      The estimated fair value of equity index put option contracts at
December 31, 2008 was $10.0 billion, an increase of approximately $5.4 billion from December 31, 2007 and an increase of $3.3 billion from September 30, 2008. The year-to-date increase included pre-tax losses of $5.0 billion due
to changes in fair values and premiums from new contracts. There have been no loss payments under equity index put option contracts. Berkshire s losses from equity index put option contracts in 2008 reflected index value declines of between
30% and 45% in 2008 across the four indexes. During the fourth quarter of 2008 these indexes declined between 10% and 22%. These contracts expire beginning in 2019 with the last expiration in 2028. Any loss payments under these contracts will
be based on the net decline in the underlying index below the strike price in each contract as of the expiration date of the contract.       Financial
Condition       Berkshire s balance sheet continues to reflect significant liquidity. Consolidated cash and invested assets, excluding
assets of utilities and energy and finance and financial products businesses, was approximately $122.0 billion at December 31, 2008 (including cash and cash equivalents of $24.3 billion) and $141.2 billion at December 31,
2007 (including cash and cash equivalents of $37.7 billion). Berkshire s invested assets are held predominantly in its insurance businesses. The decline in cash and invested assets is primarily due to a significant reduction in the
carrying amount of equity securities resulting from the worldwide economic crisis.      Berkshire acquired a 60% interest in Marmon Holdings,
Inc. ( Marmon ) for $4.5 billion on March 18, 2008. In the second quarter of 2008, Berkshire acquired additional shares and currently owns 63.6% of Marmon. Berkshire has agreed to acquire the remaining minority shareholders 
interests in Marmon between 2011 and 2014 for consideration based on Marmon s future earnings.      During the fourth quarter of 2008,
Berkshire invested $6.5 billion in subordinated notes and preferred stock of the Wm. Wrigley, Jr. Company in connection with Mars, Incorporated s acquisition of that entity. In addition, Berkshire invested $5 billion in Goldman Sachs
perpetual preferred stock and common stock warrants and $3 billion in General Electric Company perpetual preferred stock and common stock warrants. These investments were funded with available cash.      Notes payable and other borrowings of the insurance and other businesses were $4.3 billion (includes about $2.3 billion issued or guaranteed by
Berkshire Hathaway Inc.) at December 31, 2008, an increase of $1.7 billion from December 31, 2007, primarily due to increases in short-term borrowings (principally NetJets) and debt of businesses acquired in 2008, (principally Marmon).
     MidAmerican s capital expenditures were $3.9 billion in 2008 and are forecasted to be approximately $3.3 billion in 2009.
MidAmerican expects to fund these capital expenditures with cash flows from operations and debt proceeds. Certain of its borrowings are secured by certain assets of its regulated utility subsidiaries. Notes payable and other borrowings of
MidAmerican maturing in 2009 are $1.26 billion with an additional $1.26 billion due before the end of 2011. Berkshire has committed until February 28, 2011 to provide up to $3.5 billion of additional capital to MidAmerican to
permit the repayment of its debt obligations or to fund MidAmerican s regulated utility subsidiaries. Berkshire has not and does not intend to guarantee the repayment of debt by MidAmerican or any of its subsidiaries.      Assets of the finance and financial products businesses as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 consisted primarily of loans and finance receivables, fixed
maturity securities and cash and cash equivalents. Liabilities were $30.7 billion as of December 31, 2008 and $22.0 billion at December 31, 2007. The increase from 2007 primarily relates to an increase of $7.7 billion in derivative
contract liabilities (see Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and the preceding section of Management s  
       
   42   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)          Financial Condition   (Continued)            
  
 Discussion for additional information). As of December 31, 2008, notes payable and other borrowings of $13.4 billion included $10.8 billion of
medium-term notes issued by BHFC. During 2008, BHFC issued debt of $5.0 billion and repaid $3.1 billion of notes. BHFC notes are guaranteed by Berkshire and mature at various dates extending through 2018. The proceeds from these notes were
used to finance originated and acquired loans of Clayton Homes.      During 2008, credit markets became increasingly restricted as a
consequence of the ongoing worldwide credit crisis. As a result, the availability of credit to corporations has declined significantly and interest rates for new issues increased relative to government obligations, even for companies with strong
credit histories and ratings. Although management believes that the credit crisis is temporary and that Berkshire has ample liquidity and capital to withstand these conditions, restricted access to credit markets over longer periods could have a
significant negative impact on operations, particularly the utilities and energy business and certain finance and financial products operations. Management believes that it currently maintains ample liquidity to cover its contractual obligations and
provide for contingent liquidity needs.      During 2008, Berkshire s consolidated shareholders  equity declined from
$120.7 billion at the end of 2007 to $109.3 billion at December 31, 2008. This reduction was largely due to significant price declines in Berkshire s equity investments and an increase in the fair value of the liabilities arising
from Berkshire s equity index put option contracts. The worldwide economic crisis has continued during the first part of 2009 and prices of Berkshire s equity investments have declined further and the fair values of liabilities arising
from equity index put option contracts have increased further. Berkshire estimates that its consolidated shareholders  equity has been reduced by approximately $8 billion since the end of 2008.       Contractual Obligations       Berkshire and its
subsidiaries have contractual obligations which will result in cash payments to counterparties in future periods. Contractual obligations arise under financing and other agreements, which are reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements and
other long-term contracts to acquire goods or services in the future, which are not currently reflected in the financial statements. Such obligations, including future minimum rentals under operating leases, will be reflected in future periods as
the goods are delivered or services provided. Amounts due as of the balance sheet date for purchases where the goods and services have been received and a liability incurred are not included to the extent that such amounts are due within one year of
the balance sheet date.      Contractual obligations for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses arising under property and casualty
insurance contracts are estimates. The timing and amount of such payments are contingent upon the outcome of claim settlement activities that will occur over many years. The amounts presented in the following table have been estimated based upon
past claim settlement activities and therefore are subject to significant estimation error. The factors affecting the ultimate amount of claims are discussed in the following section regarding Berkshire s critical accounting policies. In
addition, certain losses and loss adjustment expenses for property and casualty loss reserves are ceded to others under reinsurance contracts and therefore are recoverable. Such recoverables are not reflected in the table.      A summary of contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008 follows. Amounts are in millions.       

(1)        
      Includes interest.     

(2)        
      Principally relates to future aircraft, coal, electricity and natural gas
purchases.              
       
   43   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)            
    Critical Accounting Policies       Certain accounting policies require management to make estimates and judgments concerning transactions that will be settled several years in the future. Amounts recognized in the financial statements from such
estimates are necessarily based on numerous assumptions involving varying and potentially significant degrees of judgment and uncertainty. Accordingly, the amounts currently reflected in the financial statements will likely increase or decrease in
the future as additional information becomes available.        Property and casualty losses        A summary of Berkshire s consolidated liabilities for unpaid property and casualty losses is presented in the table below. Except for certain
workers  compensation reserves, liabilities for unpaid property and casualty losses (referred to in this section as  gross unpaid losses ) are reflected in the Consolidated Balance Sheets without discounting for time value, regardless
of the length of the claim-tail. Amounts are in millions.       

*    
   Net of reinsurance recoverable and deferred charges reinsurance assumed and before foreign currency translation effects.         Berkshire records liabilities for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses under property and casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts based upon
estimates of the ultimate amounts payable under the contracts with respect to losses occurring on or before the balance sheet date. The timing and amount of loss payments is subject to a great degree of variability and is contingent upon, among
other things, the timing of claim reporting from insureds and cedants and the determination of the ultimate amount through the loss adjustment process. A variety of techniques are used in establishing the liabilities for unpaid losses. Regardless of
the techniques used, significant judgments and assumptions are necessary in projecting the ultimate amounts payable in the future. As a result, uncertainties are imbedded in and permeate the actuarial loss reserving techniques and processes used.
     As of any balance sheet date, not all claims that have occurred have been reported and not all reported claims have been settled. Loss and
loss adjustment expense reserves include provisions for reported claims (referred to as  case reserves ) and for claims that have not been reported (referred to as incurred but not yet reported ( IBNR ) reserves). The time period
between the loss occurrence date and settlement payment date is referred to as the  claim-tail.  Property claims usually have fairly short claim-tails and, absent litigation, are reported and settled within a few years of occurrence.
Casualty losses usually have very long claim-tails, occasionally extending for decades. Casualty claims are more susceptible to litigation and can be significantly affected by changing contract interpretations. The legal environment further
contributes to extending claim-tails.      Receivables are recorded with respect to losses ceded to other reinsurers and are estimated in a
manner similar to liabilities for insurance losses. In addition to the factors cited above, reinsurance recoverables may ultimately prove to be uncollectible if the reinsurer is unable to perform under the contract. Reinsurance contracts do not
relieve the ceding company of its obligations to indemnify its own policyholders.      Berkshire s insurance businesses utilize loss
reserving techniques that are believed to best fit the particular business. Additional information regarding reserving processes of the significant businesses (GEICO, General Re and BHRG) follows.       GEICO       GEICO s gross unpaid
losses and loss adjustment expense reserves as of December 31, 2008 were $7,336 million. As of December 31, 2008, gross reserves included $5,265 million of reported average, case and case development reserves and $2,071 million of IBNR
reserves.         
   44   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Property and casualty losses    (Continued)        
    GEICO (Continued)             GEICO predominantly writes private passenger auto insurance which has a relatively short claim-tail. The key assumptions
affecting GEICO s reserves include projections of ultimate claim counts ( frequency ) and average loss per claim ( severity ), which includes loss adjustment expenses.      GEICO s reserving methodologies produce reserve estimates based upon the individual claims (or a  ground-up  approach), which yields an
aggregate estimate of the ultimate losses and loss adjustment expenses. Ranges of loss estimates are not determined in the aggregate.      Actuaries establish and evaluate unpaid loss reserves using recognized standard actuarial loss development methods and techniques. The significant reserve components (and percentage of gross reserves) are: (1) average reserves (20%),
(2) case and case development reserves (55%) and (3) IBNR reserves (25%). Each component of loss reserves is affected by the expected frequency and average severity of claims. Such amounts are analyzed using statistical techniques on
historical claims data and adjusted when appropriate to reflect perceived changes in loss patterns. Data is analyzed by policy coverage, rated state, reporting date and occurrence date, among other factors. A brief discussion of each reserve
component follows.      Average reserve amounts are established for reported auto damage claims and new liability claims prior to the
development of an individual case reserve. The average reserves are established as a reasonable estimate for incurred claims for which claims adjusters have insufficient time and information to make specific claim estimates and for a large number of
minor physical damage claims that are paid within a relatively short time after being reported. Average reserve amounts are driven by the estimated average severity per claim and the number of new claims opened.      Claims adjusters generally establish individual liability claim case loss and loss adjustment expense reserve estimates as soon as the specific facts and
merits of each claim can be evaluated. Case reserves represent the amounts that in the judgment of the adjusters are reasonably expected to be paid in the future to completely settle the claim, including expenses. Individual case reserves are
revised as more information becomes known.      For most liability coverages, case reserves alone are an insufficient measure of the ultimate
cost due in part to the longer claim-tail, the greater chance of protracted litigation and the incompleteness of facts available at the time the case reserve is established. Therefore, additional case development reserve estimates are established,
usually as a percentage of the case reserve. As of December 31, 2008, case development reserves averaged approximately 20% of total established case reserves. In general, case development factors are selected by a retrospective analysis of the
overall adequacy of historical case reserves. Case development factors are reviewed and revised periodically.      For unreported claims, IBNR
reserve estimates are calculated by first projecting the ultimate number of claims expected (reported and unreported) for each significant coverage by using historical quarterly and monthly claim counts to develop age-to-age projections of the
ultimate counts by accident quarter. Reported claims are subtracted from the ultimate claim projections to produce an estimate of the number of unreported claims. The number of unreported claims is multiplied by an estimate of the average cost per
unreported claim to produce the IBNR reserve amount. Actuarial techniques are difficult to apply reliably in certain situations, such as to new legal precedents, class action suits or recent catastrophes. Consequently, supplemental IBNR reserves for
these types of events may be established through the collaborative effort of actuarial, claims and other management.      For each of its major
coverages, GEICO tests the adequacy of the total loss reserves using one or more actuarial projections based on claim closure models, paid loss triangles and incurred loss triangles. Each type of projection analyzes loss occurrence data for claims
occurring in a given period and projects the ultimate cost.      Loss reserve estimates recorded at the end of 2007 developed downward by
approximately $205 million when reevaluated at December 31, 2008 producing a corresponding increase to pre-tax earnings in 2008. These downward reserve developments represented approximately 2% of earned premiums in 2008 and approximately 3% of
the prior year-end reserve amount. Reserving assumptions at December 31, 2008 were modified appropriately to reflect the most recent frequency and severity results. Future reserve development will depend on whether frequency and severity turn
out to be more or less than anticipated.      Within the automobile line of business the reserves with the most uncertainty are for liability
coverages, due to the longer claim-tails. Approximately 90% of GEICO s reserves as of December 31, 2008 were for automobile liability, of which bodily  
       
   45   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Property and casualty losses    (Continued)        
    GEICO (Continued)            
 injury ( BI ) coverage accounted for approximately 55%. Management believes it is reasonably possible that the average BI severity will change by
at least one percentage point from the severity used. If actual BI severity changes one percentage point from what was used in establishing the reserves, the reserves would develop up or down by approximately $112 million resulting in a
corresponding decrease or increase in pre-tax earnings. Many of the same economic forces that would likely cause BI severity to be different from expected would likely also cause severities for other injury coverages to differ in the same direction.
     GEICO s exposure to highly uncertain losses is believed to be limited to certain commercial excess umbrella policies written during a
period from 1981 to 1984. Remaining reserves associated with such exposure are currently a relatively insignificant component of GEICO s total reserves (approximately 2%) and there is minimal apparent asbestos or environmental liability
exposure. Related claim activity over the past year was insignificant.       General Re and BHRG       General Re s and BHRG s property and casualty loss reserves derive primarily from assumed reinsurance. There are additional uncertainties unique
to loss reserving processes for reinsurance. The nature, extent, timing and perceived reliability of information received from ceding companies varies widely depending on the type of coverage, the contractual reporting terms (which are affected by
market conditions and practices) and other factors. Due to the lack of standardization of contract terms and conditions, the wide variability of coverage needs of individual clients and the tendency for those needs to change rapidly in response to
market conditions, the ongoing economic impact of such uncertainties, in and of themselves, cannot be reliably measured.      The nature and
extent of loss information provided under many facultative, per occurrence excess contracts or retroactive contracts may not differ significantly from the information received under a primary insurance contract. This occurs when company personnel
either work closely with the ceding company in settling individual claims or manage the claims themselves. Loss information from aggregate excess-of-loss contracts, including catastrophe losses and quota-share treaties, is often less detailed.
Occasionally loss information is reported in summary format rather than on an individual claim basis. Loss data is provided through periodic reports and may include the amount of ceded losses paid where reimbursement is sought as well as case loss
reserve estimates. Ceding companies infrequently provide IBNR estimates to reinsurers.      Each of Berkshire s reinsurance businesses has
established practices to identify and gather needed information from clients. These practices include, for example, comparison of expected premiums to reported premiums to help identify delinquent client periodic reports and claim reviews to
facilitate loss reporting and identify inaccurate or incomplete claim reporting. These practices are periodically evaluated and changed as conditions, risk factors and unanticipated areas of exposures are identified.      The timing of claim reporting to reinsurers is delayed in comparison with primary insurance. In some instances there are multiple reinsurers assuming and
ceding parts of an underlying risk causing multiple contractual intermediaries between General Re or BHRG and the primary insured. In these instances, the delays in reporting can be compounded. The relative impact of reporting delays on the
reinsurer varies depending on the type of coverage, contractual reporting terms and other factors. Contracts covering casualty losses on a per occurrence excess basis may experience longer delays in reporting due to the length of the claim-tail as
regards to the underlying claim. In addition, ceding companies may not report claims to the reinsurer until they believe it is reasonably possible that the reinsurer will be affected, usually determined as a function of its estimate of the claim
amount as a percentage of the reinsurance contract retention. However, the timing of reporting large per occurrence excess property losses or property catastrophe losses may not vary significantly from primary insurance.      Under contracts where periodic premium and claims reports are required from ceding companies, such reports are generally required at quarterly intervals
which in the U.S. range from 30 to 90 days after the end of the accounting period. In continental Europe, reinsurance reporting practices vary. Fewer clients report premiums, losses and case reserves on a quarterly basis. In certain countries,
clients report annually, generally 90 to 180 days after the end of the annual period. The extended reporting lag does not result in a significant increase in risk or uncertainty as the actuarial reserving methodologies are adjusted to compensate for
the delays.         
   46   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Property and casualty losses    (Continued)        
    General Re and BHRG (Continued)             Premium and loss data is provided through at least one intermediary (the primary insurer), so there is a risk that the loss
data provided is incomplete, inaccurate or outside the coverage terms. Information provided by ceding companies is reviewed for completeness and compliance with the contract terms. Reinsurance contracts generally allow for Berkshire s
reinsurance subsidiaries to have access to the cedant s books and records with respect to the subject business and provide them the ability to conduct audits to determine the accuracy and completeness of information. Audits are conducted when
management deems it appropriate.      In the normal course of business, disputes with clients arise concerning whether certain claims are
covered under the reinsurance policies. Most coverage disputes are resolved by the company s claims department personnel and the appropriate client personnel or by independent outside counsel. If disputes cannot be resolved, contracts generally
specify whether arbitration, litigation, or alternative dispute resolution will be invoked. There are no coverage disputes at this time for which an adverse resolution would likely have a material impact on Berkshire s results of operations or
financial condition.      In summary, the scope, number and potential variability of assumptions required in estimating ultimate losses from
reinsurance contracts of General Re and BHRG are more uncertain than primary property and casualty insurers due to the factors previously discussed.       General Re       General Re s gross and net unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and gross
reserves by major line of business as of December 31, 2008 are summarized below. Amounts are in millions.       

(2)        
      Includes directors and officers and errors and omissions
coverage.              

(3)        
      Includes medical malpractice and umbrella coverage.             General Re s process of establishing loss reserve estimates is based upon a
ground-up approach, beginning with case estimates and supplemented by additional case reserves ( ACRs ) and IBNR reserves. Critical judgments in establishing loss reserves involve the establishment of ACRs by claim examiners, the
expectation of ultimate loss ratios which drive IBNR reserve amounts and the case reserve reporting trends compared to the expected loss reporting patterns. Recorded reserve amounts are subject to  tail risk  where reported losses develop
beyond the maximum expected loss emergence pattern time period.      General Re does not routinely determine loss reserve ranges because it
believes that the techniques necessary have not sufficiently developed and the myriad of assumptions required render such resulting ranges to be unreliable. In addition, counts of claims or average amounts per claim are not utilized because clients
do not consistently provide reliable data in sufficient detail.      Upon notification of a reinsurance claim from a ceding company, claim
examiners make independent evaluations of loss amounts. In some cases, examiners  estimates differ from amounts reported by ceding companies. If the examiners  estimates are significantly greater than the ceding company s estimates,
the claims are further investigated. If deemed appropriate, ACRs are established above the amount reported by the ceding company. As of December 31, 2008, ACRs aggregated $3.1 billion before discounts and were concentrated in workers 
compensation reserves, and to a lesser extent in professional liability reserves. Examiners also periodically conduct detailed claim reviews of individual clients and case reserves are often increased as a result. In 2008, claim examiners conducted
about 340 claim reviews.         
   47   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Property and casualty losses    (Continued)        
    General Re (Continued)             Actuaries classify all loss and premium data into segments ( reserve cells ) primarily based on product (e.g.,
treaty, facultative and program) and line of business (e.g., auto liability, property, etc.). For each reserve cell, premiums and losses are aggregated by accident year, policy year or underwriting year (depending on client reporting practices) and
analyzed over time. These loss aggregations are internally called loss triangles which serve as the primary basis for IBNR reserve calculations. Over 300 reserve cells are reviewed for North American business and approximately 900 reserve cells are
reviewed with respect to international business.      Loss triangles are used to determine the expected case loss emergence patterns for most
coverages and, in conjunction with expected loss ratios by accident year, are further used to determine IBNR reserves. Additional calculations form the basis for estimating the expected loss emergence pattern. The determination of the expected loss
emergence pattern is not strictly a mechanical process. In instances where the historical loss data is insufficient, estimation formulas are used along with reliance on other loss triangles and judgment. Factors affecting loss development triangles
include but are not limited to the following: changes in client claims practices, changes in claim examiners  use of ACRs or the frequency of client company claim reviews, changes in policy terms and coverage (such as client loss retention
levels and occurrence and aggregate policy limits), changes in loss trends and changes in legal trends that result in unanticipated losses, as well as other sources of statistical variability. These factors influence the selection of the expected
loss emergence patterns.      Expected loss ratios are selected by reserve cell, by accident year, based upon reviewing forecasted losses and
indicated ultimate loss ratios that are predicted from aggregated pricing statistics. Indicated ultimate loss ratios are calculated using the selected loss emergence pattern, reported losses and earned premium. If the selected emergence pattern is
not accurate, then the indicated ultimate loss ratios will not be accurate and this can affect the selected loss ratios and hence the IBNR reserve. As with selected loss emergence patterns, selecting expected loss ratios is not a strictly mechanical
process and judgment is used in the analysis of indicated ultimate loss ratios and department pricing loss ratios.      IBNR reserves are
estimated by reserve cell, by accident year, using the expected loss emergence patterns and the expected loss ratios. The expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios are the critical IBNR reserving assumptions and are updated annually.
Once the annual IBNR reserves are determined, actuaries calculate expected case loss emergence for the upcoming calendar year. This calculation does not involve new assumptions and uses the prior year-end expected loss emergence patterns and
expected loss ratios. The expected losses are then allocated into interim estimates that are compared to actual reported losses in the subsequent year. This comparison provides a test of the adequacy of prior year-end IBNR reserves and forms the
basis for possibly changing IBNR reserve assumptions during the course of the year.      In 2008, for prior years  workers 
compensation losses, reported claims were less than expected claims by about $93 million. However, further analysis of the workers  compensation reserve cells by segment indicated the need for additional IBNR. These developments precipitated
about $116 million of a net increase in nominal IBNR reserve estimates for unreported occurrences. After deducting $117 million for the change in net reserve discounts during the year, workers  compensation losses from prior years reduced
pre-tax earnings in 2008 by $140 million. To illustrate the sensitivity of changes in expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios for General Re s significant excess-of-loss workers  compensation reserve cells, an increase of
ten points in the tail of the expected emergence pattern and an increase of ten percent in the expected loss ratios would produce a net increase in nominal IBNR reserves of approximately $623 million and $339 million on a discounted basis as of
December 31, 2008. The increase in discounted reserves would produce a corresponding decrease in pre-tax earnings. Management believes it is reasonably possible for the tail of the expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios to
increase at these rates.      Other casualty and general liability reported losses (excluding mass tort losses) were favorable in 2008 relative
to expectations. Casualty losses tend to be long-tail and it should not be assumed that favorable loss experience in a year means that loss reserve amounts currently established will continue to develop favorably. For General Re s significant
other casualty and general liability reserve cells (including medical malpractice, umbrella, auto and general liability), an increase of five points in the tails of the expected emergence patterns and an increase of five percent in expected loss
ratios (one percent for large international proportional reserve cells) would produce a net increase in nominal IBNR reserves and a corresponding reduction in pre-tax earnings of approximately $805 million. Management believes it is reasonably
possible for the tail of the expected loss emergence patterns and expected loss ratios to increase at these rates in any of the individual aforementioned reserve cells. However, given the diversification in worldwide business, more likely outcomes
are believed to be less than $805 million.         
   48   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Property and casualty losses    (Continued)        
    General Re (Continued)             Property losses were lower than expected in 2008 but the nature of property loss experience tends to be more volatile
because of the effect of catastrophes and large individual property losses. In response to favorable claim developments and another year of information, estimated remaining World Trade Center losses were reduced by $25 million.      In certain reserve cells within excess directors and officers and errors and omissions ( D O and E O ) coverages, IBNR reserves are
based on estimated ultimate losses without consideration of expected emergence patterns. These cells often involve a spike in loss activity arising from recent industry developments making it difficult to select an expected loss emergence pattern.
For General Re s large D O and E O reserve cells an increase of ten points in the tail of the expected emergence pattern (for those cells where emergence patterns are considered) and an increase of ten percent in the expected loss
ratios would produce a net increase in nominal IBNR reserves and a corresponding reduction in pre-tax earnings of approximately $250 million. Management believes it is reasonably possible for the tail of the expected loss emergence patterns and
expected loss ratios to increase at these rates.      Overall industry-wide loss experience data and informed judgment are used when internal
loss data is of limited reliability, such as in setting the estimates for mass tort, asbestos and hazardous waste (collectively,  mass tort ) claims. Unpaid mass tort reserves at December 31, 2008 were approximately $1.8 billion gross
and $1.2 billion net of reinsurance. Such reserves were approximately $1.8 billion gross and $1.2 billion net of reinsurance as of December 31, 2007. Mass tort net claims paid were about $69 million in 2008. In 2008, ultimate loss estimates for
asbestos and environmental claims were increased by $45 million. In addition to the previously described methodologies, General Re considers  survival ratios  based on net claim payments in recent years versus net unpaid losses as a rough
guide to reserve adequacy. The three year survival ratio was approximately fourteen years as of December 31, 2008. The insurance industry s comparable survival ratio for asbestos and pollution reserves was approximately nine years.
Estimating mass tort losses is very difficult due to the changing legal environment. Although such reserves are believed to be adequate, significant reserve increases may be required in the future if new exposures or claimants are identified, new
claims are reported or new theories of liability emerge.       BHRG       BHRG s unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses as of December 31, 2008 are summarized as follows. Amounts are in millions.       
    In general, the methodologies used to establish loss reserves vary widely and encompass many of
the common methodologies employed in the actuarial field today. Certain traditional methodologies such as paid and incurred loss development techniques, incurred and paid loss Bornhuetter-Ferguson techniques and frequency and severity techniques are
utilized as well as ground-up techniques where appropriate. Additional judgments must also be employed to consider changes in contract conditions and terms as well as the incidence of litigation or legal and regulatory change.      As of December 31, 2008, BHRG s gross loss reserves related to retroactive reinsurance policies were predominantly casualty losses. Retroactive
policies include excess-of-loss contracts, in which losses (relating to loss events occurring before a specified date on or before the contract date) above a contractual retention are indemnified or contracts that indemnify all losses paid by the
counterparty after the policy effective date. Retroactive reinsurance losses and loss adjustment expenses paid in 2008 were $1.2 billion. The classification  reported case reserves  has no practical analytical value with respect to
retroactive policies since the amount is often derived from reports in bulk from ceding companies, who may have inconsistent definitions of  case reserves.  Reserves are reviewed and established in the aggregate by contract including
provisions for IBNR reserves.         
   49   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Property and casualty losses    (Continued)        
    BHRG (Continued)        
     In establishing retroactive reinsurance reserves, historical aggregate loss payment patterns are often analyzed and projected into the
future under various scenarios. The claim-tail is expected to be very long for many policies and may last several decades. Management assigns judgmental probability factors to these aggregate loss payment scenarios and an expectancy outcome is
determined. Management monitors claim payment activity and reviews ceding company reports and other information concerning the underlying losses. Since the claim-tail is expected to be very long for such contracts, management reassesses expected
ultimate losses as significant events related to the underlying losses are reported or revealed during the monitoring and review process. During 2008, retroactive reserves developed upward by approximately $200 million.      BHRG s liabilities for environmental, asbestos, and latent injury losses and loss adjustment expenses are presently concentrated within retroactive
reinsurance contracts. Reserves for such losses were approximately $9.2 billion at December 31, 2008 and $9.7 billion at December 31, 2007. Losses paid in 2008 attributable to these exposures were approximately $700 million. BHRG, as a
reinsurer, does not regularly receive reliable information regarding asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims from all ceding companies on a consistent basis, particularly with respect to multi-line treaty or aggregate excess-of-loss
policies. Periodically, a ground-up analysis of the underlying loss data of the reinsured is conducted to make an estimate of ultimate reinsured losses. When detailed loss information is unavailable, estimates can only be developed by applying
recent industry trends and projections to aggregate client data. Judgments in these areas necessarily include the stability of the legal and regulatory environment under which these claims will be adjudicated. Potential legal reform and legislation
could also have a significant impact on establishing loss reserves for mass tort claims in the future.      The maximum losses payable by BHRG
under retroactive policies are not expected to exceed approximately $24.3 billion as of December 31, 2008. Absent significant judicial or legislative changes affecting asbestos, environmental or latent injury exposures, management currently
believes it unlikely that unpaid losses as of December 31, 2008 ($16.6 billion) will develop upward to the maximum loss payable or downward by more than 15%.      A significant number of recent reinsurance contracts are expected to have a low frequency of claim occurrence combined with a potential for high severity of claims. These include property losses from catastrophes,
terrorism and aviation risks under catastrophe and individual risk contracts. Loss reserves related to catastrophe and individual risk contracts were approximately $1.3 billion at December 31, 2008, and were essentially unchanged from the prior
year. In 2008 and 2007, loss reserves for prior years  events declined by approximately $200 million which produced corresponding increases to pre-tax earnings each year. Reserving techniques for catastrophe and individual risk contracts
generally rely more on a per-policy assessment of the ultimate cost associated with the individual loss event rather than with an analysis of the historical development patterns of past losses. Catastrophe loss reserves are provided when it is
probable that an insured loss has occurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Absent litigation affecting the interpretation of coverage terms, the expected claim-tail is relatively short and thus the estimation error in the initial reserve
estimates usually emerges within 24 months after the loss event.      Other reinsurance reserve amounts are generally based upon loss estimates
reported by ceding companies and IBNR reserves that are primarily a function of reported losses from ceding companies and anticipated loss ratios established on an individual contract basis, supplemented by management s judgment of the impact
on each contract of major catastrophe events as they become known. Anticipated loss ratios are based upon management s judgment considering the type of business covered, analysis of each ceding company s loss history and evaluation of that
portion of the underlying contracts underwritten by each ceding company, which are in turn ceded to BHRG. A range of reserve amounts as a result of changes in underlying assumptions is not prepared.        Derivative contract liabilities        Berkshire s Consolidated Balance Sheets include significant amounts of derivative contract liabilities that are measured at fair value. These contracts were primarily entered into in over-the-counter markets and certain elements in the
terms and conditions of such contracts are not standardized. Furthermore, there is no source of independent data available to the Company that periodically shows trading volume and actual prices. As a result, the values of these liabilities are
primarily based on valuation models, discounted cash flow models or other valuation techniques that are believed to be used by market participants. Such models or other valuation techniques may use inputs that are observable in the marketplace,
while others are unobservable.  
       
   50   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Derivative contract liabilities    (Continued)              
  
 Unobservable inputs require management to make certain projections and assumptions about the information that would be used by market participants in
pricing. Considerable judgment may be required in making assumptions, including the selection of interest rates, default and recovery rates and volatility. Changes in assumptions may have a significant effect on values.      In determining the fair value of most of the credit default contracts, Berkshire used bid/ask pricing data on similar contracts as the basis for
estimating fair value. Pricing data is monitored and reviewed by management for consistency as well as reasonableness. Pricing data for newer credit default contracts tends to vary little among the different pricing sources, which management
believes is an indication that trading of such contracts is relatively active. As contracts age towards their expiration dates, the variations in pricing data can widen, which management believes is indicative of inactive markets. However, the
impact of such variations is partially mitigated by shorter remaining durations and by the availability of data on newer contracts, which is used for comparison.      Berkshire determines the estimated fair value of equity index put option contracts based on the widely used Black-Scholes option valuation model. Inputs to that model include the current index value, strike price,
discount or interest rate, dividend rate and contract expiration date. The weighted averaged discount and dividend rates used as of December 31, 2008 were each approximately 4%. Berkshire believes the most significant economic risks relate to
changes in the index value component and to a lesser degree to the foreign currency component. For additional information, see Berkshire s Market Risk Disclosures.      The Black-Scholes model also incorporates volatility estimates that measure potential price changes over time. The weighted average volatility used as of December 31, 2008 was approximately 22%. The impact on
fair value as of December 31, 2008 ($10.0 billion) from changes in volatility is summarized below. The values of contracts in an actual exchange are affected by market conditions and perceptions of the buyers and sellers. Actual values in
an exchange may differ significantly from the values produced by any mathematical model. Dollars are in millions.       
      Other Critical Accounting Policies        Berkshire records deferred charges with respect to liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts. At the inception of these contracts, the
deferred charges represent the difference between the consideration received and the estimated ultimate liability for unpaid losses. Deferred charges are amortized using the interest method over an estimate of the ultimate claim payment period with
the periodic amortization reflected in earnings as a component of losses and loss expenses. Deferred charge balances are adjusted periodically to reflect new projections of the amount and timing of loss payments. Adjustments to these assumptions are
applied retrospectively from the inception of the contract. Unamortized deferred charges were $3.9 billion at December 31, 2008. Significant changes in the estimated amount and payment timing of unpaid losses may have a significant effect on
unamortized deferred charges and the amount of periodic amortization.      Berkshire s Consolidated Balance Sheet as of December 31,
2008 includes goodwill of acquired businesses of approximately $33.8 billion. A significant amount of judgment is required in performing goodwill impairment tests. Such tests include periodically determining or reviewing the estimated fair
value of Berkshire s reporting units. There are several methods of estimating a reporting unit s fair value, including market quotations, asset and liability fair values and other valuation techniques, such as discounted projected future
net earnings or net cash flows and multiples of earnings. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds the estimated fair value, then individual assets (including identifiable intangible assets) and liabilities of the
reporting unit are estimated at fair value. The excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit over the estimated fair value of net assets would establish the implied value of goodwill. The excess of the recorded amount of goodwill over
the implied value is then charged to earnings as an impairment loss.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)            
    Market Risk Disclosures       Berkshire s Consolidated Balance Sheets include a substantial amount of assets and liabilities whose fair values are subject to market risks. Berkshire s significant market risks are primarily associated
with interest rates, equity prices, foreign currency exchange rates and commodity prices. During the fourth quarter of 2008, conditions in the public debt and equity markets declined significantly resulting in exceptional volatility in debt and
equity prices. The impact of actions taken recently by governmental bodies in response to the current economic crisis is difficult to predict, particularly over the short term. Berkshire management believes that these extraordinary conditions are
temporary and that equity prices will ultimately rise over time and that credit markets will normalize but cannot predict the timing or magnitude of a recovery. The fair values of Berkshire s investment portfolios and its equity index put
option contracts remain subject to considerable volatility, particularly over the short term. The following sections address the significant market risks associated with Berkshire s business activities.        Interest Rate Risk        Berkshire s regularly invests in bonds, loans or other interest rate sensitive instruments. Berkshire s strategy is to acquire securities that are attractively priced in relation to the perceived credit risk. Management recognizes
and accepts that losses may occur with respect to assets. Berkshire strives to maintain high credit ratings so that the cost of debt is minimized. Berkshire utilizes derivative products, such as interest rate swaps, to manage interest rate risks on
a limited basis.      The fair values of Berkshire s fixed maturity investments and notes payable and other borrowings will fluctuate in
response to changes in market interest rates. Increases and decreases in prevailing interest rates generally translate into decreases and increases in fair values of those instruments. Additionally, fair values of interest rate sensitive instruments
may be affected by the creditworthiness of the issuer, prepayment options, relative values of alternative investments, the liquidity of the instrument and other general market conditions. The fair values of fixed interest rate investments may be
more sensitive to interest rate changes than variable rate investments.      The following table summarizes the estimated effects of
hypothetical changes in interest rates on assets and liabilities that are subject to interest rate risk. It is assumed that the changes occur immediately and uniformly to each category of instrument containing interest rate risk, and that no other
significant factors change that determine the value of the instrument. The hypothetical changes in interest rates do not reflect what could be deemed best or worst case scenarios. Variations in interest rates could produce significant changes in the
timing of repayments due to prepayment options available. For these reasons, actual results might differ from those reflected in the table. Dollars are in millions.       
       
   52   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)            
     Equity Price Risk        Historically, Berkshire has maintained large amounts of invested assets in exchange traded equity securities. Strategically, Berkshire strives to invest
in businesses that possess excellent economics, with able and honest management and at sensible prices and prefers to invest a meaningful amount in each investee. Consequently, equity investments may be concentrated in relatively few investees. At
December 31, 2008, 57% of the total fair value of equity investments was concentrated in four investees.      Berkshire prefers to hold
equity investments for very long periods of time so management is not troubled by short-term equity price volatility with respect to its investments provided that the underlying business, economic and management characteristics of the investees
remain favorable. Berkshire strives to maintain above average levels of shareholder capital to provide a margin of safety against short-term equity price volatility.      Market prices for equity securities are subject to fluctuation and consequently the amount realized in the subsequent sale of an investment may significantly differ from the reported market value. Fluctuation in the
market price of a security may result from perceived changes in the underlying economic characteristics of the investee, the relative price of alternative investments and general market conditions.      Berkshire is also subject to equity price risk with respect to its equity index put option contracts. While Berkshire s ultimate potential loss with
respect to these contracts is determined from the movement of the underlying stock index between contract inception date and expiration, the change in fair value resulting from current changes in the index values are also affected by changes in
other factors such as interest rates, expected dividend rates and the remaining duration of the contract. These contracts generally expire 15 to 20 years from inception and may not be settled before their respective expiration dates.      The following table summarizes Berkshire s equity investments and derivative contract liabilities with equity price risk as of December 31,
2008 and 2007. The effects of a hypothetical 30% increase and a 30% decrease in market prices as of those dates is also shown. The selected 30% hypothetical change does not reflect what could be considered the best or worst case scenarios. Indeed,
results could be far worse due both to the nature of equity markets and the aforementioned concentrations existing in Berkshire s equity investment portfolio. Dollar amounts are in millions.       
      Foreign Currency Risk        Berkshire generally does not use derivative contracts to hedge foreign currency price changes primarily because of the natural hedging that occurs between
assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies in the consolidated financial statements. Financial statements of subsidiaries that do not use the U.S. Dollar as their functional currency are translated into U.S. Dollars using period-end
exchange rates for assets and liabilities and weighted-average exchange rates for revenues and expenses. Adjustments resulting from translating the financial statements of these subsidiaries are reported in accumulated other comprehensive income.
Foreign currency transaction gains or losses are included in earnings primarily as a result of the translation of foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities held by U.S. subsidiaries. In addition, Berkshire holds investments in major
multinational companies that have significant foreign business and foreign currency risk of their own, such as the Coca-Cola Company.         
   53   

Table of Contents  

Management s Discussion   (Continued)           Foreign Currency Risk    (Continued)              
   Berkshire s net assets subject to translation are primarily in the insurance and utilities and
energy businesses, and to a lesser extent in the manufacturing and services businesses. The translation impact is somewhat offset by transaction gains or losses on net reinsurance liabilities denominated in foreign currencies of certain U.S.
subsidiaries as well as the equity index put option liabilities of U.S. subsidiaries relating to contracts that would be settled in foreign currencies.        Commodity Price Risk        Berkshire, through its ownership of MidAmerican, is subject to commodity
price risk. Exposures include variations in the price of wholesale electricity that is purchased and sold, fuel costs to generate electricity and natural gas supply for regulated retail gas customers. Electricity and natural gas prices are subject
to wide price swings as demand responds to, among many other items, changing weather, limited storage, transmission and transportation constraints, and lack of alternative supplies from other areas. To mitigate a portion of the risk, MidAmerican
uses derivative instruments, including forwards, futures, options, swaps and other over-the-counter agreements, to effectively secure future supply or sell future production at fixed prices. The settled cost of these contracts is generally recovered
from customers in regulated rates. Accordingly, gains and losses associated with interim price movements on such contracts are recorded as regulatory assets or liabilities. Financial results may be negatively impacted if the costs of wholesale
electricity, fuel or natural gas are higher than what is permitted to be recovered in rates. MidAmerican also uses futures, options and swap agreements to economically hedge gas and electric commodity prices for physical delivery to non-regulated
customers. MidAmerican does not engage in a material amount of proprietary trading activities.      The table that follows summarizes
Berkshire s commodity price risk on energy derivative contracts of MidAmerican as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 and shows the effects of a hypothetical 10% increase and a 10% decrease in forward market prices by the expected volumes for
these contracts as of that date. The selected hypothetical change does not reflect what could be considered the best or worst case scenarios. Dollars are in millions.       
     FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS       Investors are cautioned that certain statements contained in this document, as well as some statements in periodic press releases and some oral
statements of Berkshire officials during presentations about Berkshire, are  forward-looking  statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the  Act ). Forward-looking statements include
statements that are predictive in nature, that depend upon or refer to future events or conditions, that include words such as  expects,   anticipates,   intends,   plans,   believes, 
 estimates,  or similar expressions. In addition, any statements concerning future financial performance (including future revenues, earnings or growth rates), ongoing business strategies or prospects, and possible future Berkshire
actions, which may be provided by management are also forward-looking statements as defined by the Act. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and projections about future events and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and
assumptions about Berkshire, economic and market factors and the industries in which Berkshire does business, among other things. These statements are not guaranties of future performance and Berkshire has no specific intention to update these
statements.      Actual events and results may differ materially from those expressed or forecasted in forward-looking statements due to a
number of factors. The principal important risk factors that could cause Berkshire s actual performance and future events and actions to differ materially from such forward-looking statements, include, but are not limited to, changes in market
prices of Berkshire s investments in fixed maturity and equity securities, losses realized from derivative contracts, the occurrence of one or more catastrophic events, such as an earthquake, hurricane or an act of terrorism that causes losses
insured by Berkshire s insurance subsidiaries, changes in insurance laws or regulations, changes in Federal income tax laws, and changes in general economic and market factors that affect the prices of securities or the industries in which
Berkshire and its affiliates do business.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A.   
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk         See  Market Risk Disclosures  contained in Item 7  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.        Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       Management of Berkshire
Hathaway Inc. is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our
management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 as required by the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Rule 13a-15(c). In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth in the framework in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway
Commission. Based on our evaluation under the framework in  Internal Control Integrated Framework , our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of December 31, 2008.      The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008 has been audited by Deloitte        Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears on the following page.      Berkshire Hathaway Inc.      February 27, 2009         
   55   

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data           
 REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of      Berkshire Hathaway Inc.      We have audited the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, cash flows and changes in shareholders  equity and
comprehensive income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008. We also have audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on criteria established in  Internal
Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the
amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial
reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the
assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive
and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the
maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override
of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to
the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2008 and
2007, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion,
the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.      DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP      Omaha, Nebraska      February 27, 2009         
   56   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        and Subsidiaries        CONSOLIDATED
BALANCE SHEETS        (dollars in millions except per share amounts)        
     See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          
   57   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        and Subsidiaries        CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS        (dollars in millions except per share amounts)        

*   
   Average shares outstanding include average Class A common shares and average Class B common shares determined on an equivalent Class A common stock basis. Net earnings
per common share shown above represents net earnings per equivalent Class A common share. Net earnings per Class B common share is equal to one-thirtieth (1/30) of such amount or $107 per share for 2008, $285 per share for 2007 and $238
per share for 2006.          See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          
   58   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        and Subsidiaries        CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS        (dollars in millions)        
     See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements          
   59   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        and Subsidiaries        CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY        AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME        (dollars in millions)        
         See accompanying Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements          
   60   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        and Subsidiaries        NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS        December 31, 2008        

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices          

(a)   
   Nature of operations and basis of consolidation         Berkshire Hathaway Inc. ( Berkshire  or  Company ) is a holding company owning subsidiaries engaged in a number of diverse business activities, including property and casualty insurance and reinsurance, utilities and
energy, finance, manufacturing, service and retailing. Further information regarding these businesses and Berkshire s reportable business segments is contained in Note 21. Berkshire consummated a number of business acquisitions over the past
three years which are discussed in Note 2.      The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Berkshire
consolidated with the accounts of all of its subsidiaries and affiliates in which Berkshire holds a controlling financial interest as of the financial statement date. Normally a controlling financial interest reflects ownership of a majority of the
voting interests. Other factors considered in determining whether a controlling financial interest is held include whether Berkshire possesses the authority to purchase or sell assets or make other operating decisions that significantly affect the
entity s results of operations and whether Berkshire bears a majority of the financial risks of the entity. Intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Certain amounts in prior year presentations have been reclassified to
conform with the current year presentation.       

(b)   
   Use of estimates in preparation of financial statements         The preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the
reported amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. In particular, estimates of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses and related recoverables
under reinsurance for property and casualty insurance are subject to considerable estimation error due to the inherent uncertainty in projecting ultimate claim amounts that will be settled over many years. In addition, estimates and assumptions
associated with the amortization of deferred charges reinsurance assumed, determinations of fair value of certain financial instruments and the determinations of goodwill impairments require considerable judgment by management. Actual results may
differ from the estimates used in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements.       

(c)   
   Cash and cash equivalents         Cash equivalents consist
of funds invested in U.S. Treasury Bills, money market accounts and in other investments with a maturity of three months or less when purchased. Cash and cash equivalents exclude amounts where availability is restricted by loan agreements or other
contractual provisions. Restricted amounts are included in other assets.       

(d)   
   Investments         Berkshire s management determines
the appropriate classifications of investments in fixed maturity and equity securities at the acquisition date and re-evaluates the classifications at each balance sheet date. Held-to-maturity investments are carried at amortized cost, reflecting
the ability and intent to hold the securities to maturity. Trading investments are carried at fair value and include securities acquired with the intent to sell in the near term. All other securities are classified as available-for-sale and are
carried at fair value with net unrealized gains or losses reported as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income.      Investment
gains and losses arise when investments are sold (as determined on a specific identification basis) or are other-than-temporarily impaired. If in management s judgment a decline in the value of an investment below cost is other than temporary,
the cost of the investment is written down to fair value with a corresponding charge to earnings. Factors considered in judging whether an impairment is other than temporary include: the financial condition, business prospects and creditworthiness
of the issuer, the length of time that fair value has been less than cost, the relative amount of the decline and Berkshire s ability and intent to hold the investment until the fair value recovers.      Berkshire utilizes the equity method of accounting with respect to investments when it has the ability to exercise significant influence, but not control,
over the operating and financial policies of the investee. The ability to exercise  
       
   61   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)      

(d)   
   Investments   (Continued)              
 significant influence is presumed when an investor possesses more than 20% of the voting interests of the investee. This presumption may be overcome based on
specific facts and circumstances that demonstrate that the ability to exercise significant influence is restricted. Berkshire applies the equity method to investments in common stock and to other investments when such other investments possess
substantially identical subordinated interests to common stock. In applying the equity method with respect to investments previously accounted for at cost or fair value, the carrying value of the investment is adjusted on a step-by-step basis as if
the equity method had been applied from the time the investment was first acquired.      In applying the equity method, Berkshire records the
investment at cost and subsequently increases or decreases the investment by its proportionate share of the net earnings or losses and other comprehensive income of the investee. Dividends or other equity distributions are recorded as reductions in
the carrying value of the investment. In the event that net losses of the investee have reduced the equity method investment to zero, additional net losses may be recorded if other investments in the investee are at-risk, even if Berkshire has not
committed to provide financial support to the investee. Such additional equity method losses, if any, are based upon the change in Berkshire s claim on the investee s book value.       

(e)   
   Loans and finance receivables         Loans and finance
receivables consist of commercial and consumer loans originated or purchased. Loans and finance receivables are stated at amortized cost less allowances for uncollectible accounts based on Berkshire s ability and intent to hold such loans and
receivables to maturity. Amortized cost represents acquisition cost, plus or minus origination and commitment costs paid or fees received, which together with acquisition premiums or discounts are deferred and amortized as yield adjustments over the
life of the loan.      Allowances for estimated losses from uncollectible loans are recorded when it is probable that the counterparty will be
unable to pay all amounts due according to the terms of the loan. Allowances are provided on aggregations of consumer loans with similar characteristics and terms based upon historical loss and recovery experience, delinquency rates and current
economic conditions. Provisions for loan losses are included in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings.       

(f)   
   Derivatives         Derivative contracts are carried at
estimated fair value and are classified as assets or liabilities in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. Such balances reflect reductions permitted under master netting agreements with counterparties. The changes in fair value of derivative
contracts that do not qualify as hedging instruments for financial reporting purposes are included in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as derivative gains/losses.      Cash collateral received from or paid to counterparties to secure derivative contract assets or liabilities is included in other liabilities or assets of finance and financial products businesses in the Consolidated
Balance Sheets. Securities received from counterparties as collateral are not recorded as assets and securities delivered to counterparties as collateral continue to be reflected as assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets.       

(g)   
   Fair value measurements         As defined under SFAS No.
157,  Fair Value Measurements  ( SFAS 157 ), fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability between market participants in the principal market or in the most advantageous market
when no principal market exists. Market participants are assumed to be independent, knowledgeable, able and willing to transact an exchange and not under duress. Nonperformance or credit risk is considered when determining the fair value of
liabilities. Considerable judgment may be required in interpreting market data used to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, estimates of fair value presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized in
a current or future market exchange.       

(h)   
   Inventories         Inventories consist of manufactured
goods and purchased goods acquired for resale. Manufactured inventory costs include raw materials, direct and indirect labor and factory overhead. Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or  
       
   62   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)        

(h)   
   Inventories (Continued)              
 market. As of December 31, 2008, approximately 40% of the total inventory cost was determined using the last-in-first-out ( LIFO ) method, 35%
using the first-in-first-out ( FIFO ) method, with the remainder using the specific identification method and average cost methods. With respect to inventories carried at LIFO cost, the aggregate difference in value between LIFO cost and
cost determined under FIFO methods was $607 million and $331 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.       

(i)   
   Property, plant and equipment and assets held for lease         Additions to property, plant and equipment and assets held for lease are recorded at cost. The cost of major additions and betterments are capitalized, while replacements, maintenance and repairs that do not improve or extend the useful
lives of the related assets are expensed as incurred. Interest over the construction period is capitalized as a component of cost of constructed assets. In addition, the cost of constructed assets of certain domestic regulated utility and energy
subsidiaries that are subject to SFAS No. 71,  Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation  ( SFAS 71 ) includes the capitalization of the estimated cost of capital incurred during the construction period. Also
see Note 1(o).      Depreciation is provided principally on the straight-line method over estimated useful lives. Depreciation of assets of
certain regulated utility and energy subsidiaries is provided over recovery periods based on composite asset class lives as agreed to by regulators.      Property, plant and equipment and assets held for lease are evaluated for impairment when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of such assets may not be recoverable or the assets meet the criteria of held for
sale. Upon the occurrence of a triggering event, the asset is reviewed to assess whether the estimated undiscounted cash flows expected from the use of the asset plus residual value from the ultimate disposal exceeds the carrying value of the asset.
If the carrying value exceeds the estimated recoverable amounts, the asset is written down to the estimated discounted present value of the expected future cash flows from using the asset. Impairment losses are reflected in the Consolidated
Statements of Earnings, except with respect to impairments of assets of certain domestic regulated utility and energy subsidiaries where losses are offset by the establishment of a regulatory asset to the extent recovery in future rates is probable.

(j)   
   Goodwill         Goodwill represents the excess of the
purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired in business acquisitions. Goodwill is evaluated for impairment at least annually. Evaluating goodwill for impairment involves a two-step process. The first step is to estimate
the fair value of the reporting unit. If the carrying amount of a reporting unit, including goodwill, exceeds the estimated fair value, a second step is performed. Under the second step, the identifiable assets, including identifiable intangible
assets, and liabilities of the reporting unit are estimated at fair value as of the current testing date. The excess of the estimated fair value of the reporting unit over the estimated fair value of net assets establishes the implied value of
goodwill. The excess of the recorded goodwill over the implied value is charged to earnings as an impairment loss. A significant amount of judgment is required in estimating the fair value of the reporting unit and performing goodwill impairment
tests.       

(k)   
   Revenue recognition         Insurance premiums for
prospective property/casualty insurance and reinsurance and health reinsurance policies are earned in proportion to the level of protection provided. In most cases, premiums are recognized as revenues ratably over the term of the contract with
unearned premiums computed on a monthly or daily pro rata basis. Premiums for retroactive reinsurance property/casualty policies are earned at the inception of the contracts. Premiums for life reinsurance contracts are earned when due. Premiums
earned are stated net of amounts ceded to reinsurers. Premiums are estimated with respect to certain reinsurance contracts where reports from ceding companies for the period are not contractually due until after the balance sheet date. For contracts
containing experience rating provisions, premiums are based upon estimated loss experience under the contract.      Sales revenues derive from
the sales of manufactured products and goods acquired for resale. Revenues from sales are recognized upon passage of title to the customer, which generally coincides with customer pickup, product delivery or acceptance, depending on terms of the
sales arrangement.         
   63   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)      

(k)   
   Revenue recognition (Continued)               Service revenues derive primarily from pilot training and flight operations and flight management activities. Service revenues are recognized as the
services are performed. Services provided pursuant to a contract are either recognized over the contract period or upon completion of the elements specified in the contract depending on the terms of the contract. Revenues related to the sales of
fractional ownership interests in aircraft are recognized ratably over the term of the related management services agreement as the transfer of ownership interest in the aircraft is inseparable from the management services agreement.      Interest income from investments in bonds and loans is earned under the constant yield method and includes accrual of interest due under terms of the bond
or loan agreement as well as amortization of acquisition premiums and accruable discounts. In determining the constant yield for mortgage-backed securities, anticipated counterparty prepayments are estimated and evaluated periodically. Dividends
from equity securities are earned on the ex-dividend date.      Operating revenue of utilities and energy businesses resulting from the
distribution and sale of natural gas and electricity to customers is recognized when the service is rendered or the energy is delivered. Amounts recognized include unbilled as well as billed amounts. Rates charged are generally subject to Federal
and state regulation or established under contractual arrangements. When preliminary rates are permitted to be billed prior to final approval by the applicable regulator, certain revenue collected may be subject to refund and a liability for
estimated refunds is accrued.       

(l)   
   Losses and loss adjustment expenses         Liabilities
for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses represent estimated claim and claim settlement costs of property/casualty insurance and reinsurance contracts with respect to losses that have occurred as of the balance sheet date. The liabilities for
losses and loss adjustment expenses are recorded at the estimated ultimate payment amounts, except that amounts arising from certain workers  compensation reinsurance business are discounted as discussed below. Estimated ultimate payment
amounts are based upon (1) individual case estimates, (2) reports of losses from policyholders and (3) estimates of incurred but not reported losses.      Provisions for losses and loss adjustment expenses are reported in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings after deducting amounts recovered and estimates of amounts recoverable under reinsurance
contracts. Reinsurance contracts do not relieve the ceding company of its obligations to indemnify policyholders with respect to the underlying insurance and reinsurance contracts.      The estimated liabilities of workers  compensation claims assumed under certain reinsurance contracts are carried in the Consolidated Balance Sheets
at discounted amounts. Discounted amounts are based upon an annual discount rate of 4.5% for claims arising prior to 2003 and 1% for claims arising after 2002, consistent with discount rates used under statutory accounting principles. The periodic
discount accretion is included in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as a component of losses and loss adjustment expenses.       

(m)   
   Deferred charges reinsurance assumed         The excess of
estimated liabilities for claims and claim costs over the consideration received with respect to retroactive property and casualty reinsurance contracts that provide for indemnification of insurance risk is established as deferred charges at
inception of such contracts. The deferred charges are subsequently amortized using the interest method over the expected claim settlement periods. Changes to the estimated timing or amount of loss payments produce changes in periodic amortization.
Such changes in estimates are determined retrospectively and are included in insurance losses and loss adjustment expenses in the period of the change.       

(n)   
   Insurance premium acquisition costs         Costs that
vary with and are related to the issuance of insurance policies are deferred, subject to ultimate recoverability, and are charged to underwriting expenses as the related premiums are earned. Acquisition costs consist of commissions, premium taxes,
advertising and other underwriting costs. The recoverability of premium acquisition costs generally reflects anticipation of investment income. The unamortized balances of deferred premium acquisition costs are included in other assets and were
$1,698 million and $1,519 million at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.         
   64   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)            

(o)   
   Regulated utilities and energy businesses         Certain
domestic energy subsidiaries prepare their financial statements in accordance with SFAS 71, reflecting the economic effects from the ability to recover certain costs from customers and the requirement to return revenues to customers in the future
through the regulated rate-setting process. Accordingly, certain costs are deferred as regulatory assets and obligations are accrued as regulatory liabilities which will be amortized over various future periods. At December 31, 2008, the
Consolidated Balance Sheet includes $2,156 million in regulatory assets and $1,506 million in regulatory liabilities. At December 31, 2007, the Consolidated Balance Sheet includes $1,503 million in regulatory assets and $1,629 million in
regulatory liabilities. Regulatory assets and liabilities are components of other assets and other liabilities of utilities and energy businesses.      Management continually assesses whether the regulatory assets are probable of future recovery by considering factors such as applicable regulatory changes, recent rate orders received by other regulated entities and the status of any
pending or potential legislation. If future recovery of costs ceases to be probable, the amount no longer probable of recovery is charged to earnings.       

(p)   
   Foreign currency         The accounts of foreign-based
subsidiaries are measured in most instances using the local currency of the subsidiary as the functional currency. Revenues and expenses of these businesses are generally translated into U.S. Dollars at the average exchange rate for the period.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate as of the end of the reporting period. Gains or losses from translating the financial statements of foreign-based operations are included in shareholders  equity as a component of
accumulated other comprehensive income. Gains and losses arising from transactions denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of Berkshire or the applicable subsidiary of Berkshire are included in the Consolidated Statements of
Earnings except that gains or losses associated with available-for-sale securities are included as a component of other comprehensive income.       

(q)   
   Income taxes         Berkshire and eligible subsidiaries
file a consolidated Federal income tax return in the United States. In addition, Berkshire and subsidiaries also file income tax returns in state, local and foreign jurisdictions as applicable. Provisions for current income tax liabilities are
calculated and accrued on income and expense amounts expected to be included in the income tax returns for the current year.      Deferred
income taxes are calculated under the liability method. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are based on differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities at the current enacted tax rates. Changes in deferred
income tax assets and liabilities that are associated with components of other comprehensive income are charged or credited directly to other comprehensive income. Otherwise, changes in deferred income tax assets and liabilities are included as a
component of income tax expense. Changes in deferred income tax assets and liabilities attributable to changes in enacted tax rates are charged or credited to income tax expense in the period of enactment. Valuation allowances are established for
certain deferred tax assets where realization is not likely.      Assets and liabilities are established for uncertain tax positions taken or
positions expected to be taken in income tax returns when such positions are judged to not meet the  more-likely-than-not  threshold based on the technical merits of the positions. Estimated interest and penalties related to uncertain tax
positions are included as a component of income tax expense.       
    Effective January 1, 2008, Berkshire adopted the provisions of SFAS 157 with respect to fair value measurements of financial assets and liabilities. In October 2008, the FASB issued FSP No. 157-3,  Determining the Fair Value
of a Financial Asset When the Market for That Asset Is Not Active  ( FSP FAS 157-3 ), which was effective upon issuance. FSP FAS 157-3 clarifies the application of SFAS 157 in a market that is not active. The effect of adopting SFAS
157 was not material to Berkshire s Consolidated Financial Statements.      Effective January 1, 2008, Berkshire adopted the
provisions of SFAS No. 159,  The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities   Including an amendment of FASB Statement No. 115  ( SFAS 159 ). SFAS 159 permits entities to elect to measure
financial instruments and certain other items at fair value. Upon adoption of SFAS  
       
   65   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(1)   
   Significant accounting policies and practices   (Continued)      

159, an entity may elect the fair value option for eligible items that existed at the adoption date. Berkshire did not elect the fair value option for any
eligible items.      In September 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 133-1 and FIN 45-4  Disclosures about Derivatives and Certain
Guarantees  ( FSP FAS 133-1 ), which requires sellers of credit derivatives to disclose additional information about credit derivatives and is effective for periods ending after November 15, 2008. The adoption of FSP FAS 133-1
had no material impact on Berkshire s Consolidated Financial Statements.      Effective January 1, 2007, Berkshire adopted FASB
Interpretation No. 48  Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ). Under FIN 48, a tax position taken is recognized if it is determined that the position will
 more-likely-than-not  be sustained upon examination by a taxing authority. FIN 48 also establishes measurement guidance with respect to positions that have met the recognition threshold. The cumulative effect of adoption of FIN 48 was a
decrease of $24 million in retained earnings.      Effective January 1, 2007, Berkshire adopted FASB Staff Position No. AUG AIR-1
 Accounting for Planned Major Maintenance Activities  ( AUG AIR-1 ). AUG AIR-1 prohibits the accrual of liabilities in periods before the maintenance is performed. Berkshire elected to use the direct expense method where
maintenance costs are expensed as incurred. Previously, certain maintenance costs related to the fractional aircraft ownership business were accrued in advance. The cumulative effect of this accounting change of $52 million was recorded as an
increase in retained earnings.       

(s)   
   Accounting pronouncements to be adopted in the future         In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  ( SFAS 141R ). SFAS 141R changes the accounting model for business combinations from a cost allocation standard to a standard
that provides, with limited exceptions, for the recognition at fair value of all identifiable assets and liabilities (including contingent assets and liabilities) of the business acquired, regardless of whether 100% or a lesser controlling interest
of the business is acquired. SFAS 141R defines the acquisition date of a business acquisition as the date on which control is achieved (generally the closing date of the acquisition). SFAS 141R also provides that acquisition costs are expensed when
incurred and expands disclosures. SFAS 141R is effective for Berkshire with respect to business acquisitions completed after December 31, 2008.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 160,  Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51  ( SFAS 160 ). SFAS 160 establishes accounting and reporting standards
for non-controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries (formerly  minority interests ). SFAS 160 also amends certain consolidation procedures for consistency with SFAS 141R. Under SFAS 160, non-controlling interests are reported in the
consolidated balance sheet as a separate component of shareholders  equity. Changes in ownership interests where the parent retains a controlling interest are to be reported as transactions affecting shareholders  equity. Prior to the
effective date of SFAS 160, such transactions were reported as additional investment purchases (potentially resulting in recognition of additional assets) or as sales (potentially resulting in realized gains or losses). SFAS 160 is effective for
Berkshire as of January 1, 2009. When adopted, SFAS 160 is applied prospectively except that the presentation and disclosure requirements are applied retrospectively for all periods presented.      In March 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 161,  Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities   an amendment of FASB
Statement No. 133  ( SFAS 161 ). SFAS 161 requires enhanced disclosures about (a) how and why derivative instruments are used, (b) how derivative instruments and related hedged items are accounted for and (c) how
derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity s financial position, financial performance and cash flows. SFAS 161 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years and interim periods beginning after
November 15, 2008.      In May 2008, the FASB issued SFAS No. 163,  Accounting for Financial Guarantee Insurance Contracts 
( SFAS 163 ). SFAS 163 clarifies accounting standards applicable to financial guarantee insurance contracts and specifies certain disclosures. SFAS 163 is effective for financial statements issued for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2008, except certain disclosures were effective for periods beginning after June 30, 2008.      Berkshire is continuing
to evaluate the impact that these new accounting standards will have on its consolidated financial statements but currently does not anticipate that the adoption of these accounting pronouncements will have a material effect on its consolidated
financial position.         
   66   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

(2)   
   Significant business acquisitions         Berkshire s
long-held acquisition strategy is to purchase businesses with consistent earning power, good returns on equity and able and honest management at sensible prices. During the last three years, Berkshire acquired several businesses which are described
in the following paragraphs.      On February 28, 2006, Berkshire acquired Business Wire, a leading global distributor of corporate news,
multimedia and regulatory filings. On March 21, 2006, PacifiCorp, a regulated electric utility providing service to customers in six Western states, was acquired for approximately $5.1 billion in cash. In conjunction with the acquisition of
PacifiCorp, Berkshire acquired additional common stock of MidAmerican for $3.4 billion, which increased its ownership interest in MidAmerican from approximately 83% to approximately 88%. On May 19, 2006, Berkshire acquired 85% of Applied
Underwriters, an industry leader in integrated workers  compensation solutions. On July 5, 2006, Berkshire acquired 80% of the Iscar Metalworking Companies ( IMC ) for cash in a transaction that valued IMC at $5 billion. IMC,
headquartered in Israel, is an industry leader in the metal cutting tools business. IMC provides a comprehensive range of tools for the full scope of metalworking applications. IMC s products are manufactured through a global network of
world-class, technologically advanced manufacturing facilities and are sold worldwide. On August 2, 2006, Berkshire acquired Russell Corporation, a leading branded athletic apparel and sporting goods company. Consideration paid for all
businesses acquired in 2006 was approximately $10.1 billion.      On March 30, 2007, Berkshire acquired TTI, Inc., a privately held
electronic components distributor headquartered in Fort Worth, Texas. TTI, Inc. is a leading distributor specialist of passive, interconnect and electromechanical components. Effective April 1, 2007, Berkshire acquired the intimate apparel
business of VF Corporation. Berkshire also acquired several other relatively smaller businesses during 2007. Consideration paid for all businesses acquired in 2007 was approximately $1.6 billion.      On March 18, 2008, Berkshire acquired 60% of Marmon Holdings, Inc. ( Marmon ), a private company owned by trusts for the benefit of
members of the Pritzker Family of Chicago, for $4.5 billion. In the second quarter of 2008, Berkshire acquired additional shares and currently owns 63.6% of Marmon. Under the terms of the purchase agreement, Berkshire will acquire the remaining
minority interests in Marmon between 2011 and 2014 for consideration to be based on the future earnings of Marmon. Berkshire also acquired several other relatively small businesses during 2008. Consideration paid for all businesses acquired in 2008
was approximately $6.1 billion.      Marmon consists of approximately 130 manufacturing and service businesses that operate independently
within eleven diverse business sectors. These sectors are: Engineered Wire   Cable, serving energy related markets, residential and non-residential construction and other industries; Building Wire, producing copper electrical wiring for
residential, commercial and industrial buildings; Transportation Services   Engineered Products, including railroad tank cars and intermodal tank containers; Highway Technologies, primarily serving the heavy-duty highway transportation
industry; Distribution Services for specialty pipe and steel tubing; Flow Products, producing a variety of metal products and materials for the plumbing, HVAC/R, construction and industrial markets; Industrial Products, including metal fasteners,
safety products and metal fabrication; Construction Services, providing the leasing and operation of mobile cranes primarily to the energy, mining and petrochemical markets; Water Treatment equipment for residential, commercial and industrial
applications; Retail Store Fixtures, providing store fixtures and accessories for major retailers worldwide; and Food Service Equipment, providing food preparation equipment and shopping carts for restaurants and retailers worldwide. Marmon operates
more than 250 manufacturing, distribution and service facilities, primarily in North America, Europe and China. The Marmon purchase price allocation is summarized below (in millions).       
       
   67   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(2)   
   Significant business acquisitions   (Continued)              
   The results of operations for each of these businesses are included in Berkshire s consolidated
results from the effective date of each acquisition. The following table sets forth certain unaudited pro forma consolidated earnings data for 2008 and 2007, as if each acquisition occurring during 2008 and 2007 was consummated on the same terms at
the beginning of each year. Amounts are in millions, except earnings per share.       

(3)   
   Investments in fixed maturity securities         Investments in securities with fixed maturities as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 are shown below (in millions).       
     
    As of December 31, 2008, fixed maturity investments included approximately $2.7
billion (Insurance and other   $1.4 billion and Finance and financial products   $1.3 billion) of investment grade auction rate bonds and variable rate demand notes issued by various municipalities and political subdivisions. The interest
rates are periodically reset at up to 35 day intervals. While substantially all of these securities are insured by third parties, acquisitions were limited to securities where Berkshire concluded that the underlying credit of the issuers was good
without the benefit of an insurer s guarantee.  
       
   68   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(3)   
   Investments in fixed maturity securities   (Continued)              
  
 Approximately 65% of these securities were rated A or higher without the benefit of an insurer guarantee (and approximately 54% of the remaining securities
were not rated on an underlying basis). Berkshire held no investments in these securities as of December 31, 2007.      The amortized cost
and estimated fair values of securities with fixed maturities at December 31, 2008 are summarized below by contractual maturity dates. Actual maturities will differ from contractual maturities because issuers of certain of the securities retain
early call or prepayment rights. Amounts are in millions.       

(4)   
   Investments in equity securities         Investments in
equity securities are summarized below (in millions).       

*     
   Substantially all of the gross unrealized losses pertain to security positions that have been held for less than 12 months.          

(5)   
   Other Investments         A summary of other investments
as of December 31, 2008 follows (in millions).       
    During 2008, Berkshire acquired newly issued equity and debt instruments issued by Wm. Wrigley Jr.
Company ( Wrigley ), The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc. ( GS ) and The General Electric Company ( GE ). These securities are reflected in other fixed maturity and equity investments in the preceding table. In addition,
Berkshire adopted the equity method with respect to its investments in Burlington Northern Santa Fe Corporation ( BNSF ) and Moody s Corporation ( Moody s ).      On October 6, 2008, Berkshire acquired $4.4 billion par amount of 11.45% subordinated notes due 2018 of Wrigley ( Wrigley Notes ) and $2.1
billion of preferred stock of Wrigley ( Wrigley Preferred ). The Wrigley Notes and Wrigley Preferred were acquired in connection with Mars, Incorporated s acquisition of Wrigley. Berkshire may not transfer, sell or assign the Wrigley
Notes or Wrigley Preferred to third parties. Berkshire has classified the Wrigley Notes as  held-to-maturity  and accordingly is carrying the Wrigley Notes at cost. Dividends are payable on the Wrigley Preferred at a rate of 5% per
annum. The Wrigley Preferred is subject to certain put and call arrangements in 2016 and annually beginning in 2021. The redemption amount of the Wrigley Preferred is based upon the future earnings of Wrigley.      On October 1, 2008, Berkshire acquired 50,000 shares of 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock of GS ( GS Preferred ) and Warrants to
purchase 43,478,260 shares of common stock of GS ( GS Warrants ) for an aggregate cost of $5 billion. The GS Preferred may be redeemed at any time by GS at a price of $110,000 per share ($5.5 billion in aggregate). The GS Warrants expire
in 2013 and can be exercised for an aggregate cost of $5 billion ($115/share).         
   69   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(5)   
   Other Investments   (Continued)              
   On October 16, 2008, Berkshire acquired 30,000 shares of 10% Cumulative Perpetual Preferred
Stock of GE ( GE Preferred ) and Warrants to purchase 134,831,460 shares of common stock of GE ( GE Warrants ) for an aggregate cost of $3 billion. The GE Preferred may be redeemed beginning in October 2011 by GE at a price of
$110,000 per share ($3.3 billion in aggregate). The GE Warrants expire in 2013 and can be exercised for an aggregate cost of $3 billion ($22.25/share).      Berkshire began acquiring common shares of BNSF in 2006 and prior to December 31, 2008 accounted for this investment as an available-for-sale equity security recorded in the financial statements at fair value.
During the fourth quarter of 2008, Berkshire acquired additional shares of BNSF common stock and increased its economic and voting interest to 20.7% (70.1 million shares) as of December 31, 2008. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2008,
Berkshire adopted the equity method of accounting with respect to this investment.      Berkshire has owned 48 million shares of
Moody s common stock since 2000. Prior to December 31, 2008, this investment was accounted for as an available-for-sale equity security recorded in the financial statements at fair value. Over the last several years, Berkshire s
voting and economic interest has steadily increased due to share repurchases by Moody s and as of December 31, 2008, Berkshire s voting and economic interest was 20.4%. Accordingly, as of December 31, 2008, Berkshire adopted the
equity method of accounting with respect to this investment.      The cumulative effect of adopting the equity method with respect to the
investments in Moody s and BNSF was recorded in the financial statements as of December 31, 2008 and prior years  financial statements have not been restated. As a result of adopting the equity method, Berkshire s
shareholders  equity increased by $626 million as compared to the amount that would have been recorded had these investments continued to be recorded at fair value.      As of December 31, 2008, Berkshire s equity in net assets of BNSF and Moody s was $2,106 million and the excess of Berkshire s carrying value over its equity in net assets of BNSF and Moody s
was $4,754 million. BNSF is engaged primarily in the freight rail transportation business and operates one of the largest North American rail networks with about 32,000 route miles in 28 states and two Canadian provinces. BNSF transports coal and a
wide range of consumer, industrial and agricultural products. Moody s is a provider of credit ratings and related research, data and analytical tools, quantitative credit risk measures, risk scoring software and credit portfolio management
solutions. Berkshire does not engage in significant business transactions with BNSF or Moody s. However, Berkshire has periodically engaged Moody s to provide credit ratings in connection with debt issuances by Berkshire and certain
subsidiaries.       

(6)   
   Investment gains/losses         Investment gains/losses
are summarized below (in millions).       
    Net investment gains/losses are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as follows.

70   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

(7)   
   Loans and receivables         Loans and receivables of
insurance and other businesses are comprised of the following (in millions).       
    Loans and finance receivables of finance and financial products businesses are comprised of the
following (in millions).       
    Allowances for uncollectible loans primarily relate to consumer installment loans. Provisions for
consumer loan losses were $305 million in 2008 and $176 million in 2007. Loan charge-offs were $215 million in 2008 and $197 million in 2007. Consumer loan amounts are net of acquisition discounts of $684 million at December 31, 2008 and $452
million at December 31, 2007.       

(8)   
   Inventories         Inventories are comprised of the
following (in millions).       
     
    A reconciliation of the change in the
carrying value of goodwill for 2008 and 2007 is as follows (in millions).       
       
   71   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

(10)   
   Property, plant, equipment and assets held for lease         Property, plant, equipment and assets held for lease of insurance and other businesses is comprised of the following (in millions).   
    Assets held for lease consist primarily of railroad tank cars, intermodal tank containers and
other equipment in the transportation and equipment services businesses of Marmon, which were acquired by Berkshire in March 2008. As of December 31, 2008, the minimum future lease rentals to be received on the equipment lease fleet (including
rail cars leased from others) were as follows (in millions): 2009   $660; 2010   $528; 2011   $392; 2012   $281; 2013   $181; and thereafter   $384.      Property, plant and equipment of utilities and energy businesses is comprised of the following (in millions).       
    The utility generation, distribution and transmission system and interstate pipeline assets are
the regulated assets of public utility and natural gas pipeline subsidiaries. At December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, accumulated depreciation and amortization related to regulated assets was $12.5 billion and $12.3 billion,
respectively. Substantially all of the construction in progress at December 31, 2008 and 2007 related to the construction of regulated assets.         
   72   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

    Derivative contracts of
Berkshire s finance and financial products businesses, with limited exceptions, are not designated as hedges for financial reporting purposes. Changes in the fair values of such contracts that do not qualify as hedges are reported in the
Consolidated Statements of Earnings as derivative gains/losses. A summary of these contracts as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 follows (in millions).       

(1)        
      Not discounted for time value.   

(2)        
      Represents the aggregate undiscounted amount payable at the contract expiration
dates assuming that the value of each index is zero at the contract expiration date.              

(3)        
      Represents the maximum undiscounted future value of losses payable under the
contracts, assuming a sufficient number of credit defaults occur. The number of losses required to exhaust contract limits under substantially all of the contracts is dependent on the loss recovery rate related to the specific obligor at the time of
the default.              

(4)      
          Included in other
assets of finance and financial products businesses.             As of
December 31, 2008, Berkshire has written equity index put option contracts on four major equity indexes, including three indexes outside of the United States. These contracts are European style options (exercisable only at the expiration date)
and at inception had durations of 15 to 20 years. At December 31, 2008, the weighted average remaining life of these contracts was approximately 13.5 years with expiration dates between September 2019 and January 2028. Substantially all of
these contracts were written on an at-the-money basis (i.e. strike price equaled market price when contract was written). Future payments, if any, under these contracts will be based on the decline in the underlying index value below the strike
price at the contract expiration date. Premiums on these contracts were received at the contract inception dates and therefore Berkshire has no counterparty credit risk.      At December 31, 2008, the intrinsic value of the equity index put option contracts was $10.8 billion. The intrinsic value represents Berkshire s undiscounted liability at December 31, 2008, assuming
these contracts are settled on their future expiration dates based on the December 31, 2008 index values. However, these contracts generally may not be terminated or fully settled before the expiration dates and therefore the ultimate amount of
cash basis gains or losses on these contracts will not be known for years.      Berkshire has written credit default contracts on various
 high-yield indexes,  state/municipal debt issuers and individual corporations. These contracts cover the loss in value of specified debt obligations of the issuers arising from default events which are usually for non-payment or
bankruptcy. Loss amounts are subject to contract limits.      High yield indexes are
comprised of specified corporate issuers (usually 100 in number) in North America whose obligations are rated below investment grade. These contracts generally cover the loss in value of a referenced obligation upon a default by an issuer over the
contract period (usually 5 years). The weighted average contract duration at December 31, 2008 was approximately 2   1   /  3  
years. Payments by Berkshire under these contracts are limited to specified amounts per issuer as well as aggregate limits.       In
2008, Berkshire also wrote a small number of contracts providing for payments upon defaults on debt issued by several states and municipalities. The weighted average contract duration at December 31, 2008 was approximately 12 years.         
   73   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(11)   
   Derivatives   (Continued)               
   Premiums on the high yield index and state/municipality contracts were received at the inception
dates of the contracts and as a result Berkshire has no counterparty credit risk. Berkshire s payment obligations under certain of these contracts are on a first loss basis. Several other contracts are subject to an aggregate loss deductible
that must be satisfied before Berkshire has any payment obligations or contain provisions that otherwise delay payment obligations arising from defaults.      During 2008, Berkshire also wrote credit default contracts on individual issuers in North America whose obligations are primarily rated as investment grade and where installment premiums are due from counterparties
over the terms of the contracts. In most instances, premiums are due from counterparties on a quarterly basis. Most individual issuer contracts had a five year term when written.      The equity index put option contracts and credit default contracts were entered into with the expectation that amounts ultimately paid to counterparties
will be less than the premiums received. Berkshire views these contracts as economically similar to insurance contracts, notwithstanding the  fair value  accounting requirements for derivatives contracts.      Most of Berkshire s equity index put option and credit default contracts contain no collateral posting requirements with respect to changes in
either the fair value or intrinsic value of the contracts and/or a downgrade of Berkshire s credit rating. Under certain conditions, a few contracts require that Berkshire post collateral. At December 31, 2008, Berkshire had posted
collateral of approximately $550 million with counterparties, related to these contracts.      Berkshire is also exposed to variations in the
market prices in the purchases and sales of natural gas and electricity and in commodity fuel costs with respect to its regulated utility operations. Derivative instruments, including forward purchases and sales, futures, swaps and options are used
to manage these commodity price risks. Unrealized gains and losses under these contracts are either probable of recovery through rates and therefore are recorded as a regulatory net asset or liability or are accounted for as cash flow hedges and
therefore are recorded as accumulated other comprehensive income or loss. Derivative contract assets included in other assets of utilities and energy businesses were $324 million and $397 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.
Derivative contract liabilities included in accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities of utilities and energy businesses were $729 million and $765 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively.       

(12)   
   Supplemental cash flow information         A summary of
supplemental cash flow information for each of the three years ending December 31, 2008 is presented in the following table (in millions).   
       
   74   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

(13)   
   Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses         The
balances of unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses are based upon estimates of the ultimate claim costs associated with property and casualty claim occurrences as of the balance sheet dates including estimates for incurred but not reported
( IBNR ) claims. Considerable judgment is required to evaluate claims and establish estimated claim liabilities.      Supplemental
data with respect to unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses of property/casualty insurance subsidiaries is as follows (in millions).       
    Incurred losses  prior accident years  reflects the amount of estimation error charged
or credited to earnings in each calendar year with respect to the liabilities established as of the beginning of that year. The beginning of the year net losses and loss adjustment expenses liability was reduced by $1,690 million in 2008, $1,793
million in 2007 and $1,071 million in 2006. In each year, the reductions in loss estimates for occurrences in prior years were primarily due to lower than expected severities and frequencies on reported and settled claims in primary private
passenger and commercial auto lines and lower than expected reported reinsurance losses in both property and casualty lines. Accident year loss estimates are regularly adjusted to consider emerging loss development patterns of prior years 
losses, whether favorable or unfavorable.      Prior accident years incurred losses also include amortization of deferred charges related to
retroactive reinsurance contracts incepting prior to the beginning of the year. Amortization charges included in prior accident years  losses were $451 million in 2008, $213 million in 2007 and $358 million in 2006. Certain workers 
compensation loss reserves are discounted. Net discounted liabilities at December 31, 2008 and 2007 were $2,403 million and $2,436 million, respectively, reflecting net discounts of $2,616 million and $2,732 million, respectively. Periodic
accretions of these discounts are also a component of incurred prior accident years  losses. The accretion of discounted liabilities related to prior years  losses was approximately $99 million in 2008, $102 million in 2007 and $101
million in 2006.      Berkshire s insurance subsidiaries are exposed to environmental, asbestos and other latent injury claims arising
from insurance and reinsurance contracts. Loss reserve estimates for environmental and asbestos exposures include case basis reserves and also reflect reserves for legal and other loss adjustment expenses and IBNR reserves. IBNR reserves are
determined based upon Berkshire s historic general liability exposure base and policy language, previous environmental loss experience and the assessment of current trends of environmental law, environmental cleanup costs, asbestos liability
law and judgmental settlements of asbestos liabilities.         
   75   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(13)   
   Unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses   (Continued)            
   The liabilities for environmental, asbestos and latent injury claims and claims expenses net of
reinsurance recoverables were approximately $10.7 billion at December 31, 2008 and $11.2 billion at December 31, 2007. These liabilities included approximately $9.2 billion at December 31, 2008 and $9.7 billion at
December 31, 2007 of liabilities assumed under retroactive reinsurance contracts. Liabilities arising from retroactive contracts with exposure to claims of this nature are generally subject to aggregate policy limits. Thus, Berkshire s
exposure to environmental and latent injury claims under these contracts is, likewise, limited. Berkshire monitors evolving case law and its effect on environmental and latent injury claims. Changing government regulations, newly identified toxins,
newly reported claims, new theories of liability, new contract interpretations and other factors could result in significant increases in these liabilities. Such development could be material to Berkshire s results of operations. It is not
possible to reliably estimate the amount of additional net loss or the range of net loss that is reasonably possible.      In November 2006,
the Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group s lead insurance entity, National Indemnity Company ( NICO ) and Equitas, a London based entity established to reinsure and manage the 1992 and prior years  non-life insurance and
reinsurance liabilities of the Names or Underwriters at Lloyd s of London, entered into an agreement for NICO to initially provide up to $5.7 billion and potentially provide up to an additional $1.3 billion of reinsurance to Equitas in excess
of its undiscounted loss and allocated loss adjustment expense reserves as of March 31, 2006. The transaction became effective on March 30, 2007. The agreement requires that NICO pay all claims and related costs that arise from the
underlying insurance and reinsurance contracts of Equitas, subject to the aforementioned excess limit of indemnification. On the effective date, the aggregate limit of indemnification, which does not include unallocated loss adjustment expenses, was
$13.8 billion. A significant amount of loss exposure associated with Equitas is related to asbestos, environmental and latent injury claims.      NICO received substantially all of Equitas  assets as consideration under the arrangement. The fair value of such consideration was $7.1 billion and included approximately $540 million in cash and miscellaneous receivables plus a
combination of fixed maturity and equity securities which were delivered in April 2007. The cash and miscellaneous receivables received are included in the accompanying Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for 2007 as components of operating cash
flows. The investment securities received are reported as a non-cash investing activity.      The Equitas agreement was accounted for as
reinsurance in accordance with SFAS No. 113  Accounting and Reporting for Reinsurance of Short-Duration and Long-Duration Contracts.  Accordingly, premiums earned of $7.1 billion and losses incurred of $7.1 billion are reflected in
the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Losses incurred consisted of an estimated liability for unpaid losses and loss adjustment expenses of $9.3 billion less an asset for unamortized deferred charges reinsurance assumed of $2.2 billion. The
deferred charge asset is being amortized over the expected remaining loss settlement period using the interest method and the periodic amortization is being charged to earnings as a component of losses and loss adjustment expenses incurred.

(14)   
   Notes payable and other borrowings         Notes payable
and other borrowings of Berkshire and its subsidiaries are summarized below (in millions).       

76   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(14)   
   Notes payable and other borrowings   (Continued)              
   Subsidiary debt of utilities and energy businesses represents amounts issued by subsidiaries of
MidAmerican pursuant to separate financing agreements. All or substantially all of the assets of certain utility subsidiaries are or may be pledged or encumbered to support or otherwise secure the debt. These borrowing arrangements generally contain
various covenants including, but not limited to, leverage ratios, interest coverage ratios and debt service coverage ratios. As of December 31, 2008, MidAmerican and its subsidiaries were in compliance with all applicable covenants. During
2008, MidAmerican and its subsidiaries issued $2.15 billion of notes with maturities ranging from 2012 to 2038.       
    Debt issued by BHFC matures between 2010 and 2018. During 2008, BHFC issued $5.0 billion of senior
notes, and repaid $3.1 billion of maturing notes. Borrowings by BHFC are used to provide financing for consumer installment loans.      Berkshire subsidiaries in the aggregate have approximately $3.8 billion of available unused lines of credit and commercial paper capacity to support their short-term borrowing programs and provide additional liquidity. Generally,
Berkshire s guarantee of a subsidiary s debt obligation is an absolute, unconditional and irrevocable guarantee for the full and prompt payment when due of all present and future payment obligations of the issuer.      Principal payments expected during the next five years are as follows (in millions).       
     
    The liability for income taxes as of
December 31, 2008 and 2007 as reflected in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets is as follows (in millions).       
       
   77   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(15)   
   Income taxes   (Continued)            
   The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of deferred tax
assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 2008 and 2007 are shown below (in millions).       
    Deferred income taxes have not been established with respect to undistributed earnings of certain
foreign subsidiaries. Earnings expected to remain reinvested indefinitely were approximately $3,430 million as of December 31, 2008. Upon distribution as dividends or otherwise, such amounts would be subject to taxation in the United States as
well as foreign countries. However, U.S. income tax liabilities could be offset, in whole or in part, by tax credits allowable from taxes paid to foreign jurisdictions. Determination of the potential net tax due is impracticable due to the
complexities of hypothetical calculations involving uncertain timing and amounts of taxable income and the effects of multiple taxing jurisdictions.      The Consolidated Statements of Earnings reflect charges for income taxes as shown below (in millions).       
       
   78   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(15)   
   Income taxes   (Continued)            
   Charges for income taxes are reconciled to hypothetical amounts computed at the U.S. Federal
statutory rate in the table shown below (in millions).       

*    
   Relates to adjustments made to deferred income tax assets and liabilities in 2007 upon the enactment of reductions to corporate income tax rates in the United Kingdom and
Germany.         Berkshire or its subsidiaries file income tax returns in the U.S. federal jurisdiction and in many state, local
and foreign jurisdictions. Berkshire subsidiaries are under examination in many of these jurisdictions. With few exceptions, Berkshire and its subsidiaries have settled tax return liabilities with U.S. federal, state, local, or foreign tax
authorities for years before 1999. During 2008, Berkshire and the U.S. Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) have tentatively resolved all proposed adjustments for the 1999 through 2001 tax years at the IRS Appeals level. The IRS has completed
the examination of the consolidated U.S. federal income tax returns for the 2002 through 2004 tax years. The proposed adjustments, predominantly related to timing of deductions for insurance subsidiaries, are currently being reviewed in the IRS
appeals process. The IRS is currently auditing our consolidated U.S. federal income tax returns for the 2005 and 2006 tax years. While it is reasonably possible that certain of the income tax examinations will be settled within the next twelve
months, management believes that there are no jurisdictions in which the outcome of unresolved issues or claims is likely to be material to the Consolidated Financial Statements.      At December 31, 2008 and 2007 net unrecognized tax benefits were $803 million and $851 million, respectively. Included in the balance at
December 31, 2008, are approximately $650 million of tax positions that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate. The remaining balance in net unrecognized tax benefits principally relates to tax positions for which the ultimate
deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of such deductibility. Because of the impact of deferred tax accounting, other than interest and penalties, the disallowance of the shorter deductibility period
would not affect the annual effective tax rate but would accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an earlier period. As of December 31, 2008, management does not expect any material changes to the estimated amount of
unrecognized tax benefits in the next twelve months.       

(16)   
   Dividend restrictions   Insurance subsidiaries         Payments of dividends by insurance subsidiaries are restricted by insurance statutes and regulations. Without prior regulatory approval, insurance subsidiaries may declare up to approximately $9 billion as ordinary dividends before the end
of 2009.      Combined shareholders  equity of U.S. based property/casualty insurance subsidiaries determined pursuant to statutory
accounting rules (Statutory Surplus as Regards Policyholders) was approximately $51 billion at December 31, 2008 and $62 billion at December 31, 2007. The decline in statutory surplus in 2008 was primarily due to declines in market values
of equity securities.      Statutory surplus differs from the corresponding amount determined on the basis of GAAP. The major differences
between statutory basis accounting and GAAP are that deferred charges reinsurance assumed, deferred policy acquisition costs, unrealized gains and losses on investments in fixed maturity securities and related deferred income taxes are recognized
under GAAP but not for statutory reporting purposes. In addition, statutory accounting for goodwill of acquired businesses requires amortization of goodwill over 10 years, whereas under GAAP, goodwill is not amortized and is subject to periodic
tests for impairment.         
   79   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

(17)   
   Fair value measurements         The estimated fair values
of Berkshire s financial instruments as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 are shown in the following table (in millions). The carrying values of cash and cash equivalents, accounts receivable and accounts payable, accruals and other
liabilities are deemed to be reasonable estimates of their fair values.       

(1)        
      Included in Other assets   

(2)        
      Included in Accounts payable, accruals and other liabilities             Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to
transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants as of the measurement date. Fair value measurements assume the asset or liability is exchanged in an orderly manner; the exchange is in the principal market for that asset or
liability (or in the most advantageous market when no principal market exists); and the market participants are independent, knowledgeable, able and willing to transact an exchange. Nonperformance risk (credit risk) is considered in valuing
liabilities.      Fair values for substantially all of Berkshire s financial instruments were measured using market or income approaches.
Considerable judgment may be required in interpreting market data used to develop the estimates of fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of the amounts that could be realized in an actual current
market exchange. The use of different market assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on the estimated fair value.      SFAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value by creating a hierarchy for observable independent market inputs and unobservable market assumptions. The hierarchy consists of three levels, ranging from the category the FASB deems
to be most reliable to a category where fair value is measured using significant unobservable inputs because of the lack of observable market prices for the instrument, or Levels 1 through 3, respectively. A further description of the inputs used in
the valuation of assets and liabilities under the three levels are as follows.       Level 1    Inputs represent unadjusted quoted
prices for identical assets or liabilities exchanged in active markets. Substantially all of Berkshire s equity investments are traded on an exchange in active markets and fair value is based on the closing price as of the balance sheet date.
      Level 2    Inputs include directly or indirectly observable inputs other than Level 1 inputs such as quoted prices for similar
assets or liabilities exchanged in active or inactive markets; quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities exchanged in inactive markets; other inputs that are considered in fair value determinations of the assets or liabilities, such as
interest rates and yield curves that are observable at commonly quoted intervals, volatilities, prepayment speeds, loss severities, credit risks and default rates; and inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
data by correlation or other means. Fair values for Berkshire s investments in fixed maturity securities are primarily based on market prices and market data available for instruments with similar characteristics since active markets are not
common for many instruments. Pricing evaluations are based on yield curves for instruments with similar characteristics, such as credit rating, estimated duration, and yields for other instruments of the issuer or entities in the same industry
sector.         
   80   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(17)   
   Fair value measurements   (Continued)            
    Level 3    Inputs include unobservable inputs used in the measurement of assets and
liabilities. Management is required to use its own assumptions regarding unobservable inputs because there is little, if any, market activity in the assets or liabilities or related observable inputs that can be corroborated at the measurement date.
Measurements of non-exchange traded derivative contracts and certain other investments carried at fair value are based primarily on valuation models, discounted cash flow models or other valuation techniques that are believed to be used by market
participants. Unobservable inputs require management to make certain projections and assumptions about the information that would be used by market participants in pricing assets or liabilities. Berkshire values its equity index put option contracts
based on the Black-Scholes option valuation model which Berkshire believes is used widely by market participants. Credit default contracts are primarily valued based on indications of bid or offer data as of the balance sheet date. These contracts
are not exchange traded and certain of the terms of Berkshire s contracts are not standard in derivatives markets. In particular, Berkshire is not required to post collateral under most of its contracts. For these reasons, Berkshire has
classified these contracts as Level 3.      Financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value in the financial statements as of
December 31, 2008 are summarized in the following table by the type of inputs applicable to the fair value measurements (in millions).       
    A reconciliation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis with the
use of significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) from January 1, 2008 to December 31, 2008 follows (in millions).       

*   
   Gains and losses related to changes in valuations are included in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings as a component of investment gains/losses, derivative gains/losses or
other revenues as appropriate. Substantially all of the losses included in earnings were unrealized losses related to liabilities outstanding as of December 31, 2008.            
   81   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)            

    Changes in issued and outstanding
Berkshire common stock during the three years ended December 31, 2008 are shown in the table below.       
    Each share of Class B common stock has dividend and distribution rights equal to one-thirtieth
(1/30) of such rights of a Class A share. Accordingly, on an equivalent Class A common stock basis there are 1,549,234 shares outstanding as of December 31, 2008 and 1,547,693 shares as of December 31, 2007.      Each share of Class A common stock is convertible, at the option of the holder, into thirty shares of Class B common stock. Class B common stock is
not convertible into Class A common stock. On July 6, 2006, Berkshire s Chairman and CEO, Warren E. Buffett converted 124,998 shares of Class A common stock into 3,749,940 shares of Class B common stock. Each share of Class B
common stock possesses voting rights equivalent to one-two-hundredth (1/200) of the voting rights of a share of Class A common stock. Class A and Class B common shares vote together as a single class.       
    Several Berkshire subsidiaries
individually sponsor defined benefit pension plans covering certain employees. Benefits under the plans are generally based on years of service and compensation, although benefits under certain plans are based on years of service and fixed benefit
rates. The companies generally make contributions to the plans to meet regulatory requirements plus additional amounts as determined by management based on actuarial valuations.      The components of net periodic pension expense for each of the three years ending December 31, 2008 are as follows (in millions).       
       
   82   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(19)   
   Pension plans   (Continued)            
   The accumulated benefit obligation is the actuarial present value of benefits earned based on service
and compensation prior to the valuation date. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the accumulated benefit obligation was $6,693 million and $6,990 million, respectively. The projected benefit obligation is the actuarial present value of benefits
earned based upon service and compensation prior to the valuation date and, if applicable, includes assumptions regarding future compensation levels. Information regarding the projected benefit obligations is shown in the table that follows (in
millions).       
    Benefit obligations under qualified U.S. defined benefit plans are funded through assets held in
trusts and are not included as assets in Berkshire s Consolidated Financial Statements. Pension obligations under certain non-U.S. plans and non-qualified U.S. plans are unfunded. As of December 31, 2008, projected benefit obligations of
non-qualified U.S. plans and non-U.S. plans which are not funded through assets held in trusts were $604 million. A reconciliation of the changes in plan assets and a summary of plan assets held as of December 31, 2008 and 2007 is presented in
the table that follows (in millions).       
    Pension plan assets are generally invested with the long-term objective of earning sufficient
amounts to cover expected benefit obligations, while assuming a prudent level of risk. There are no target investment allocation percentages with respect to individual or categories of investments. Allocations may change as a result of changing
market conditions and investment opportunities. The expected rates of return on plan assets reflect Berkshire s subjective assessment of expected invested asset returns over a period of several years. Berkshire generally does not give
significant consideration to past investment returns when establishing assumptions for expected long-term rates of returns on plan assets. Actual experience will differ from the assumed rates.      The defined benefit plans expect to pay benefits to participants over the next ten years, reflecting expected future service as appropriate, as follows
(in millions): 2009   $405; 2010   $398; 2011   $413; 2012   $431; 2013   $446; and 2014 to 2018 - $2,460. Sponsoring subsidiaries expect to contribute $245 million to defined benefit pension plans in 2009.   
  As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the net funded status of the plans is summarized in the table that follows (in millions).       
       
   83   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(19)   
   Pension plans   (Continued)            
   A reconciliation of amounts not yet recognized in net periodic benefit expense for the years ending
December 31, 2008 and 2007 follows (in millions).       

*        
      Includes $42 million that is expected to be included in net periodic pension
expense in 2009.             Weighted average interest rate assumptions used
in determining projected benefit obligations were as follows. These rates are substantially the same as the weighted average rates used in determining the net periodic pension expense.       
    Several Berkshire subsidiaries also sponsor defined contribution retirement plans, such as 401(k)
or profit sharing plans. Employee contributions to the plans are subject to regulatory limitations and the specific plan provisions. Several of the plans require that the subsidiary match these contributions up to levels specified in the plans and
provide for additional discretionary contributions as determined by management. The total expenses related to employer contributions for these plans were $519 million, $506 million and $498 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007
and 2006, respectively.       

(20)   
   Contingencies and Commitments         Berkshire and its
subsidiaries are parties in a variety of legal actions arising out of the normal course of business. In particular, such legal actions affect Berkshire s insurance and reinsurance businesses. Such litigation generally seeks to establish
liability directly through insurance contracts or indirectly through reinsurance contracts issued by Berkshire subsidiaries. Plaintiffs occasionally seek punitive or exemplary damages. Berkshire does not believe that such normal and routine
litigation will have a material effect on its financial condition or results of operations. Berkshire and certain of its subsidiaries are also involved in other kinds of legal actions, some of which assert or may assert claims or seek to impose
fines and penalties in substantial amounts.       

a)    
   Governmental Investigations         Berkshire, General Re
Corporation ( General Re ) and certain of Berkshire s insurance subsidiaries, including General Reinsurance Corporation ( General Reinsurance ) and National Indemnity Company ( NICO ) have been continuing to
cooperate fully with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ), the U.S. Department of Justice, the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Virginia and the New York State Attorney General ( NYAG ) in their ongoing
investigations of non-traditional products. General Re originally received subpoenas from the SEC and NYAG in January 2005. Berkshire, General Re, General Reinsurance and NICO have been providing information to the government relating to
transactions between General Reinsurance or NICO (or their respective subsidiaries or affiliates) and other insurers in response to the January 2005 subpoenas and related requests and, in the case of General Reinsurance (or its subsidiaries or
affiliates), in response to subpoenas from other U.S. Attorneys conducting investigations relating to certain of these transactions. In particular, Berkshire and General Re have been responding to requests from the government for information
relating to certain transactions that may have been accounted for incorrectly by counterparties of General Reinsurance (or its subsidiaries or affiliates). The government has interviewed a number of current and former officers and employees of
General Re and General Reinsurance as well as Berkshire s Chairman and CEO, Warren E. Buffett, in connection with these investigations.      In one case, a transaction initially effected with American International Group ( AIG ) in late 2000 (the  AIG Transaction ), AIG has corrected its prior accounting for the transaction on the grounds, as stated in
AIG s 2004 10-K, that the transaction was done to accomplish a desired accounting result and did not entail sufficient qualifying risk transfer to support reinsurance accounting. General Reinsurance has been named in related civil actions
brought against AIG. As part of their ongoing investigations, governmental authorities have also inquired about the accounting by certain of Berkshire s insurance subsidiaries for certain assumed and ceded finite reinsurance transactions.
        
   84   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(20)   
   Contingencies and Commitments   (Continued)            
   In June 2005, John Houldsworth, the former Chief Executive Officer of Cologne Reinsurance Company
(Dublin) Limited ( CRD ), a subsidiary of General Re, and Richard Napier, a former Senior Vice President of General Re who had served as an account representative for the AIG account, each pleaded guilty to a federal criminal charge of
conspiring with others to misstate certain AIG financial statements in connection with the AIG Transaction and entered into a partial settlement agreement with the SEC with respect to such matters.      On February 25, 2008, Ronald Ferguson, General Re s former Chief Executive Officer, Elizabeth Monrad, General Re s former Chief Financial
Officer, Christopher Garand, a former General Reinsurance Senior Vice President and Robert Graham, a former General Reinsurance Senior Vice President and Assistant General Counsel, were each convicted in a trial in the U.S. District Court for the
District of Connecticut on charges of conspiracy, mail fraud, securities fraud and making false statements to the SEC in connection with the AIG Transaction. These individuals have the right to appeal their convictions. Following their convictions,
each of these individuals agreed to a judgment of a forfeiture allegation which required them to be jointly and severally liable for a payment of $5 million to the U.S. Government. This $5 million amount, which represented the fee received by
General Reinsurance in connection with the AIG Transaction, was paid by General reinsurance in April 2008. Each of these individuals, who had previously received a  Wells  notice in 2005 from the SEC, is also the subject of an SEC
enforcement action for allegedly aiding and abetting AIG s violations of the antifraud provisions and other provisions of the federal securities laws in connection with the AIG Transaction. The SEC case is presently stayed. Joseph Brandon, who
resigned as the Chief Executive Officer of General Re effective on April 14, 2008, also received a  Wells  notice from the SEC in 2005.      Berkshire understands that the government is evaluating the actions of General Re and its subsidiaries, as well as those of their counterparties, to determine whether General Re or its subsidiaries conspired with
others to misstate counterparty financial statements or aided and abetted such misstatements by the counterparties. Berkshire believes that government authorities are continuing to evaluate possible legal actions against General Re and its
subsidiaries.      Various state insurance departments have issued subpoenas or otherwise requested that General Reinsurance, NICO and their
affiliates provide documents and information relating to non-traditional products. The Office of the Connecticut Attorney General has also issued a subpoena to General Reinsurance for information relating to non-traditional products. General
Reinsurance, NICO and their affiliates have been cooperating fully with these subpoenas and requests.      CRD is also providing information to
and cooperating fully with the Irish Financial Services Regulatory Authority in its inquiries regarding the activities of CRD. The Office of the Director of Corporate Enforcement in Ireland is conducting a preliminary evaluation in relation to CRD
concerning, in particular, transactions between CRD and AIG. CRD is cooperating fully with this preliminary evaluation.      Berkshire cannot
at this time predict the outcome of these matters and is unable to estimate a range of possible loss and cannot predict whether or not the outcomes will have a material adverse effect on Berkshire s business or results of operations for at
least the quarterly period when these matters are completed or otherwise resolved.       

b)    
   Civil Litigation          Litigation Related to ROA  
     General Reinsurance and several current and former employees, along with numerous other defendants, have been sued in thirteen federal
lawsuits involving Reciprocal of America ( ROA ) and related entities. ROA was a Virginia-based reciprocal insurer and reinsurer of physician, hospital and lawyer professional liability risks. Nine are putative class actions initiated by
doctors, hospitals and lawyers that purchased insurance through ROA or certain of its Tennessee-based risk retention groups. These complaints seek compensatory, treble, and punitive damages in an amount plaintiffs contend is just and reasonable.
     General Reinsurance is also subject to actions brought by the Virginia Commissioner of Insurance, as Deputy Receiver of ROA, the Tennessee
Commissioner of Insurance, as Receiver for purposes of liquidating three Tennessee risk retention groups, a state lawsuit filed by a Missouri-based hospital group that was removed to federal court and another state lawsuit filed by an Alabama doctor
that was also removed to federal court. The first of these actions was filed in March 2003 and additional actions were filed in April 2003 through June 2006. In the action filed by the Virginia Commissioner of Insurance, the Commissioner asserts in
several of its claims that the alleged damages are believed to exceed $200 million in the aggregate as against all defendants.         
   85   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(20)   
   Contingencies and Commitments   (Continued)            
   All of these cases are collectively assigned to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of
Tennessee for pretrial proceedings. General Reinsurance filed motions to dismiss all of the claims against it in these cases and, in June 2006, the court granted General Reinsurance s motion to dismiss the complaints of the Virginia and
Tennessee receivers. The court granted the Tennessee receiver leave to amend her complaint, and the Tennessee receiver filed her amended complaint on August 7, 2006. General Reinsurance has filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint in its
entirety and that motion was granted, with the court dismissing the claim based on an alleged violation of RICO with prejudice and dismissing the state law claims without prejudice. One of the other defendants filed a motion for the court to
reconsider the dismissal of the state law claims, requesting that the court retain jurisdiction over them. That motion is pending.      The
Tennessee Receiver subsequently filed three Tennessee state court actions against General Reinsurance, essentially asserting the same state law claims that had been dismissed without prejudice by the Federal court. General Reinsurance removed those
actions to Federal court, and the Judicial Panel on Multi-District Litigation ultimately transferred these actions to the U.S. District Court for the Western District of Tennessee.      The Virginia receiver has moved for reconsideration of the dismissal and for leave to amend his complaint, which was opposed by General Reinsurance. The
court affirmed its original ruling but has given the Virginia receiver leave to amend. In September 2006, the court also dismissed the complaint filed by the Missouri-based hospital group. The Missouri-based hospital group has filed a motion for
reconsideration of the dismissal and for leave to file an amended complaint. General Reinsurance has filed its opposition to that motion and awaits a ruling by the court. The court has also not yet ruled on General Reinsurance s motions to
dismiss the complaints of the other plaintiffs. The parties have commenced discovery.      General Reinsurance filed a Complaint and a motion
in federal court to compel the Tennessee and Virginia receivers to arbitrate their claims against General Reinsurance. The receivers filed motions to dismiss the Complaint. These motions are pending.       

Actions   
   related to AIG         General Reinsurance is a defendant
in In re American International Group Securities Litigation, Case No. 04-CV-8141-(LTS), United States District Court, Southern District of New York, a putative class action (the  AIG Securities Litigation ) asserted on behalf of
investors who purchased publicly-traded securities of AIG between October 1999 and March 2005. The complaint, originally filed in April 2005, asserts various claims against AIG and certain of its officers, directors, investment banks and other
parties, including Messrs. Ferguson, Napier and Houldsworth (whom the Complaint defines, together with General Reinsurance, as the  General Re Defendants ). The Complaint alleges that the General Re Defendants violated Section 10(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule 10b-5 in connection with the AIG Transaction. The Complaint seeks damages and other relief in unspecified amounts. General Reinsurance has answered the Complaint, denying liability and asserting various
affirmative defenses. Discovery is ongoing, with a current discovery cut-off of December 1, 2009. Lead plaintiffs filed a motion for class certification on February 20, 2008. Various defendants, including General Reinsurance, have filed
oppositions to class certification. The court has not yet ruled on the motion. On May 29, 2008, General Reinsurance filed a motion for judgment on the pleadings. Plaintiffs filed an opposition to that motion on June 30, 2008. The court has
not ruled on that motion. The lead plaintiffs and General Reinsurance have reached agreement concerning the terms of a settlement that would resolve all claims against the General Re Defendants in exchange for a payment by General Reinsurance of $72
million. This settlement remains subject to court approval.      A member of the putative class in the litigation described in the preceding
paragraph has asserted similar claims against General Re and Mr. Ferguson in a separate complaint, Florida State Board of Administration v. General Re Corporation, et al., Case No. 06-CV-3967, United States District Court, Southern
District of New York. The claims against General Re and Mr. Ferguson closely resemble those asserted in the class action. The complaint does not specify the amount of damages sought. General Re has answered the Complaint, denying liability and
asserting various affirmative defenses. No trial date has been established. The parties are coordinating discovery and other proceedings among this action, a similar action filed by the same plaintiff against AIG and others, the class action
described in the preceding paragraph, and the shareholder derivative actions described in the next two paragraphs.      On July 27, 2005,
General Reinsurance received a Summons and a Verified and Amended Shareholder Derivative Complaint in In re American International Group, Inc. Derivative Litigation, Case No. 04-CV-08406, United States District  
       
   86   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(20)   
   Contingencies and Commitments   (Continued)            
  
 Court, Southern District of New York. The complaint, brought by several alleged shareholders of AIG, seeks damages, injunctive and declaratory relief against
various officers and directors of AIG as well as a variety of individuals and entities with whom AIG did business, relating to a wide variety of allegedly wrongful practices by AIG. The allegations relating to General Reinsurance focus on the AIG
Transaction, and the complaint purports to assert causes of action in connection with that transaction for aiding and abetting other defendants  breaches of fiduciary duty and for unjust enrichment. The complaint does not specify the amount of
damages or the nature of any other relief sought. Subsequently, this derivative litigation was stayed by stipulation between the plaintiffs and AIG. That stay remains in place.      In August 2005, General Reinsurance received a Summons and First Amended Consolidated Shareholders  Derivative Complaint in In re American
International Group, Inc. Consolidated Derivative Litigation, Case No. 769-N, Delaware Chancery Court. In June 2007, AIG filed an Amended Complaint in the Delaware Derivative Litigation asserting claims against two of its former officers, but
not against General Reinsurance. On September 28, 2007, AIG and the shareholder plaintiffs filed a Second Combined Amended Complaint, in which AIG asserted claims against certain of its former officers and the shareholder plaintiffs asserted
claims against a number of other defendants, including General Reinsurance and General Re. The claims asserted in the Delaware complaint are substantially similar to those asserted in the New York derivative complaint, except that the Delaware
complaint makes clear that the plaintiffs are asserting claims against both General Reinsurance and General Re. General Reinsurance and General Re filed a motion to dismiss on November 30, 2007. Various parties moved to stay discovery and/or
all proceedings in the Delaware derivative litigation. At a hearing held on February 12, 2008, the Court ruled that discovery would be stayed pending the resolution of the claims asserted against AIG in the AIG Securities Litigation. The
briefing on the motions filed by General Reinsurance and General Re was completed by September 8, 2008. The court heard argument on certain other defendants  motions to dismiss on November 7, 2008 and issued a decision on
February 10, 2009 granting some defendants  motions and denying others. The court has not yet heard oral argument on the motions filed by General Reinsurance and General Re and has not ruled on those motions.       

FAI/HIH   
   Matter         In December 2003, the Liquidators of both
FAI Insurance Limited ( FAI ) and HIH Insurance Limited ( HIH ) advised GRA and Cologne Re that they intended to assert claims arising from insurance transactions GRA entered into with FAI in May and June 1998. In August 2004,
the Liquidators filed claims in the Supreme Court of New South Wales in order to avoid the expiration of a statute of limitations for certain plaintiffs. The focus of the Liquidators  allegations against GRA and Cologne Re are the 1998
transactions GRA entered into with FAI (which was acquired by HIH in 1999). The Liquidators contend, among other things, that GRA and Cologne Re engaged in deceptive conduct that assisted FAI in improperly accounting for such transactions as
reinsurance, and that such deception led to HIH s acquisition of FAI and caused various losses to FAI and HIH. The Liquidator of HIH served its Complaint on GRA and Cologne Re in June 2006 and discovery has been ongoing. The FAI Liquidator
dismissed his complaint against GRA and Cologne Re. GRA and Cologne Re recently entered into a settlement in principle with the HIH Liquidator. The parties are still formulating a settlement deed, which will be subject to court approval.   
  Berkshire has established reserves for certain of the legal proceedings discussed above where it has concluded that the likelihood of an unfavorable
outcome is probable and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. For other legal proceedings discussed above, either Berkshire has determined that an unfavorable outcome is reasonably possible but it is unable to estimate a range of
possible losses or it is unable to predict the outcome of the matter. Management believes that any liability to the Company that may arise as a result of current pending civil litigation, including the matters discussed above, will not have a
material effect on Berkshire s financial condition or results of operations.       

c)    
   Commitments         Berkshire subsidiaries lease certain
manufacturing, warehouse, retail and office facilities as well as certain equipment. Rent expense for all leases was $725 million in 2008, $648 million in 2007 and $578 million in 2006. Minimum rental payments for operating leases having initial or
remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows. Amounts are in millions.       
    Several of Berkshire s subsidiaries have made long-term commitments to purchase goods and
services used in their businesses. The most significant of these relate to NetJets  commitments to purchase up to 556 aircraft through 2018 and  
       
   87   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(20)   
   Contingencies and Commitments   (Continued)            
  
 MidAmerican s commitments to purchase coal, electricity and natural gas. As of December 31, 2008, commitments under all such subsidiary arrangements
were approximately $6.6 billion in 2009, $4.0 billion in 2010, $2.9 billion in 2011, $2.5 billion in 2012, $2.1 billion in 2013 and $7.2 billion after 2013.      Berkshire is obligated to acquire the remaining minority shareholders  interests of Marmon (36.4%) in stages between 2011 and 2014. Based upon the initial purchase price, the cost to Berkshire of the
minority shareholders  interest would be approximately $2.7 billion. However, the consideration payable for the minority shareholders  interest is contingent upon future operating results of Marmon and the per share cost could be
greater than or less than the initial per share price.      Berkshire is also obligated under certain conditions to acquire minority ownership
interests of certain consolidated, but not wholly-owned subsidiaries, pursuant to the terms of certain shareholder agreements with the minority shareholders. The consideration payable for such interests is generally based on the fair value of the
subsidiary. If Berkshire acquired all such outstanding minority ownership interest holdings as of December 31, 2008, the cost to Berkshire would have been approximately $4 billion. However, the timing and the amount of any such future payments
that might be required are contingent on future actions of the minority owners and future operating results of the related subsidiaries.       

(21)   
   Business segment data         Berkshire s reportable
business segments are organized in a manner that reflects how management views those business activities. Certain businesses have been grouped together for segment reporting based upon similar products or product lines, marketing, selling and
distribution characteristics, even though those business units are operated under separate local management.      The tabular information that
follows shows data of reportable segments reconciled to amounts reflected in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Intersegment transactions are not eliminated in instances where management considers those transactions in assessing the results of
the respective segments. Furthermore, Berkshire management does not consider investment and derivative gains/losses or amortization of purchase accounting adjustments in assessing the performance of reporting units. Collectively, these items are
included in reconciliations of segment amounts to consolidated amounts.       

Business Identity    
      
     Business Activity     

GEICO   
      
  Underwriting private passenger automobile insurance mainly by direct response methods   

General Re   
      
  Underwriting excess-of-loss, quota-share and facultative reinsurance worldwide   

Berkshire Hathaway Reinsurance Group   
      
  Underwriting excess-of-loss and quota-share reinsurance for property and casualty insurers and reinsurers   

Berkshire Hathaway Primary Group   
      
  Underwriting multiple lines of property and casualty insurance policies for primarily commercial accounts   

BH Finance, Clayton Homes, XTRA, CORT and other financial services ( Finance and financial products )  
      
  Proprietary investing, manufactured housing and related consumer financing, transportation equipment leasing, furniture leasing, life annuities and risk management products   

Marmon   
      
  An association of approximately 130 manufacturing and service businesses that operate within 11 diverse business sectors   

McLane Company   
      
  Wholesale distribution of groceries and non-food items   

MidAmerican   
      
  Regulated electric and gas utility, including power generation and distribution activities in the U.S. and internationally; domestic real estate brokerage   

Shaw Industries   
      
  Manufacturing and distribution of carpet and floor coverings under a variety of brand names   
       
   88   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(21)   
   Business segment data   (Continued)            
   Other businesses not specifically identified with reportable business segments consist of a large,
diverse group of manufacturing, service and retailing businesses.       

Manufacturing   
      
  Acme Building Brands, Benjamin Moore, H.H. Brown Shoe Group, CTB, Fechheimer Brothers, Forest River, Fruit of the Loom, Garan, IMC, Johns Manville, Justin Brands, Larson-Juhl, MiTek,
Richline, Russell and Scott Fetzer   

Service   
      
  Buffalo News, Business Wire, FlightSafety, International Dairy Queen, Pampered Chef, NetJets and TTI   

Retailing   
      
  Ben Bridge Jeweler, Borsheims, Helzberg Diamond Shops, Jordan s Furniture, Nebraska Furniture Mart, See s, Star Furniture and R.C. Willey   
    A disaggregation of Berkshire s consolidated data for each of the three most recent years is
presented in the tables which follow on this and the following two pages (in millions).       

89   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(21)   
   Business segment data   (Continued)            

**    
   Excludes capital expenditures which were part of business acquisitions.          
    Insurance premiums written by geographic region (based upon the domicile of the insured or
reinsured) are summarized below. Dollars are in millions.       
    Insurance premiums written and earned in 2007 included $7.1 billion from a single reinsurance
transaction with Equitas. See Note 13 for additional information. Amounts for Western Europe were primarily in the United Kingdom, Switzerland and Germany. Consolidated sales and service revenues in 2008, 2007 and 2006 were $65.9 billion, $58.2
billion and $51.8 billion, respectively. Approximately 90% of such amounts in each year were in the United States with the remainder primarily in Canada and Europe. In 2008, consolidated sales and service revenues included $11.2 billion of sales to
Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. which were primarily related to McLane s wholesale distribution business. At December 31, 2008, over 80% of Berkshire s net property, plant and equipment and assets held for lease are located in the United States
with the remainder primarily in Canada and Europe.         
   90   

Table of Contents  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements   (Continued)          

(21)   
   Business segment data   (Continued)              
   Premiums written and earned by the property/casualty and life/health insurance businesses are
summarized below (in millions).   
     
    A summary of revenues and earnings
by quarter for each of the last two years is presented in the following table. This information is unaudited. Dollars are in millions, except per share amounts.   

*    
   Includes investment gains/losses and derivative gains/losses, which, for any given period have no predictive value and variations in amount from period to period have no
practical analytical value. Derivative gains/losses include   significant amounts related to non-cash fair value changes in the value of long-term contracts arising from short-term changes in equity prices, interest rate and foreign currency
rates, among other factors. After-tax investment and derivative gains/losses for the periods presented above are as follows (in millions):      
       
   91   

Table of Contents  

Item 9.   
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure         None       

Item 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures         At the end of the period
covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Corporation carried out an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of the Corporation s management, including the Chairman (Chief Executive Officer) and the Senior Vice
President-Treasurer (Chief Financial Officer), of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures pursuant to Exchange Act Rule 13a-15. Based upon that evaluation, the Chairman (Chief
Executive Officer) and the Senior Vice President-Treasurer (Chief Financial Officer) concluded that the Corporation s disclosure controls and procedures are effective in timely alerting them to material information relating to the Corporation
(including its consolidated subsidiaries) required to be included in the Corporation s periodic SEC filings. The report called for by Item 308(a) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to Management s Report on Internal
Control Over Financial Reporting, included on page 55 of this report. The attestation report called for by Item 308(b) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, included on
page 56 of this report. There has been no change in the Corporation s internal control over financial reporting during the quarter ended December 31, 2008 that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the
Corporation s internal control over financial reporting.       

Item 9B.   
   Other Information         On October 23, 2008,
Deloitte   Touche LLP ( Deloitte ), our registered public accounting firm, advised us that it had become aware that a former Deloitte partner, who had been the advisory partner on Deloitte s client service team for the
Company from 2001 until his resignation from Deloitte in September 2008 (the  Former Advisory Partner ), had traded in our securities. Deloitte subsequently informed us that it believed the Former Advisory Partner had traded in our
securities on six occasions during 2005 and 2006. Deloitte concluded that these securities transactions violated the SEC s auditor independence rules, as well as Deloitte s own policies on auditor independence. Deloitte conducted an
internal review and concluded that the Former Advisory Partner s actions did not impair Deloitte s objectivity or impartiality or that of the engagement team that has conducted our audits.      The Company s Deloitte audit engagement team consisted of a lead client service partner, who had responsibility for all substantive issues with
respect to the planning, scope and conduct of the audit, an engagement quality assurance review partner, additional professional staff (including several other partners responsible for the oversight of audit procedures performed at several of the
Company s major subsidiaries) and the Former Advisory Partner, who functioned primarily in a client relationship and client service assessment role and had no substantive or technical role in the audit. The Former Advisory Partner attended most
Audit Committee meetings. His primary role was to function in a client relationship role, including conducting Deloitte s annual client service assessments, and he did not review any substantive audit matters with the Audit Committee or Company
management. The Former Advisory Partner attended one or more of the Company s annual meetings of shareholders as one of the Deloitte representatives attending those meetings. Neither the Former Advisory Partner nor any other Deloitte
representatives spoke at any of these meetings and no questions were asked of Deloitte. On November 5, 2008, Deloitte reported to the Audit Committee the results of its investigation of the involvement of the Former Advisory Partner in actual
audit matters. Deloitte reviewed its national office consultation logs from 2001 through September 2008 and determined that there was no indication of the Former Advisory Partner s involvement in any national office consultations. Deloitte
determined that the Former Advisory Partner s role on the audit engagement did not involve participation in the scoping or execution of Deloitte s audit of the Company s annual financial statements or Deloitte s review of
quarterly financial statements. Deloitte concluded that the Former Advisory Partner performed his role as advisory partner in a manner that did not influence the audit engagement partners or any other members of the audit engagement team responsible
for the audit in a manner that would impact the engagement team s objectivity or impartiality. On November 5, 2008, Deloitte also provided a draft letter to the Audit Committee concluding the actions of the Former Advisory Partner did not
impair Deloitte s past or continuing independence.      Following Deloitte s disclosure, the Audit Committee initiated its own review
with the assistance of the Company s senior management and outside counsel selected by the Audit Committee for this purpose. The review included an examination of our relationship to the Former Advisory Partner and his role on our engagement.
Over the course of the review, outside counsel examined a substantial number of documents and communications from Deloitte s and the Company s files, including the Former Advisory Partner s annual goals and assessments, his annual
independence certifications, his personal office files related  
       
   92   

Table of Contents  

to Berkshire, minutes of Audit Committee meetings and email and other documents relating to our audit engagement. The review included interviews conducted by
outside counsel of Deloitte s current and former lead client service partners. The Audit Committee and outside counsel also met with senior Company management and senior management of Deloitte. The review confirmed Deloitte s findings that
the Former Advisory Partner met with our Audit Committee as well as senior Company management, for the purpose of enhancing Deloitte s client service to us rather than participating in the audit or review of the Company s financial
statements. In the course of an Audit Committee meeting, each of the members of the Audit Committee, as well as senior Company management, confirmed that their experiences with the Former Advisory Partner were consistent with these findings. Based
on this review, and considering the points spelled out in the next paragraph, the Audit Committee concluded that the Former Advisory Partner had functioned in a client relationship role and had not been substantively involved in the audit or
influenced any substantive portion of any audit or review of our financial statements.      Following completion of the review, the Audit
Committee concluded, consistent with Deloitte s conclusion, reconfirmed in Deloitte s letter to the Audit Committee issued January 5, 2009, that Deloitte s impartiality or objectivity related to its audits of Berkshire has not
been compromised and therefore, notwithstanding the violation of the independence rules, Deloitte s independence was not impaired. In reaching this conclusion, the Audit Committee took into consideration the following: (i) the Former
Advisory Partner is no longer a partner or otherwise affiliated with Deloitte; (ii) the Former Advisory Partner did not disclose his investments to Deloitte, in contravention of Deloitte s independence policies; (iii) the Former
Advisory Partner s role on the audit engagement did not involve participation in the scoping or execution of Deloitte s audit of the Company s annual financial statements or Deloitte s review of quarterly financial statements, or
his participation in determining or influencing the conclusion on any technical consultations with Deloitte s national office regarding Berkshire matters; (iv) Deloitte concluded that the Former Advisory Partner performed his role as
advisory partner in a manner that did not influence the audit engagement partners or any other members of the audit engagement team responsible for the audit in a manner that would impact the engagement team s objectivity or impartiality;
(v) there is no indication of independence issues with respect to other members of the engagement team; (vi) while the Former Advisory Partner attended most meetings of the Audit Committee and occasional meetings with management, the
Former Advisory Partner did not participate in the consideration or review of substantive issues relating to any audit process or regarding the accounting treatment of any items appearing on the Company s financial statements; (vii) the
nature and extent of interaction between the Former Advisory Partner and members of management and the Audit Committee was limited to matters related to the relationship between Deloitte and the Company and did not include substantive involvement
with any significant accounting or financial reporting positions or the audit scope and related findings; (viii) Deloitte issued a report, dated January 5, 2009, to the Audit Committee reaffirming Deloitte s independence per the
requirements of the rule issued by the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board; and (ix) Deloitte represents that it has in place a quality control system that meets the requirements of the SEC and the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board, and provides reasonable assurance that the accounting firm and its employees do not lack independence. The Company and Deloitte separately reported their conclusions to the SEC Staff.                 Part III       Except for the information set forth under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I hereof, information required by this
Part (Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14) is incorporated by reference from the Registrant s definitive proxy statement, filed pursuant to Regulation 14A, for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Registrant to be held on May 2, 2009, which
meeting will involve the election of directors.         
   93   

Table of Contents  

    Part IV        

Item 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules         (a) 1.  Financial
Statements       The following Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, are
included in Part II Item 8 of this report:       
    (b)  Exhibits       See the  Exhibit Index  at page 99.         
   94   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.       

BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.   

Date: February 27, 2009  

/s/    M ARC  D. H AMBURG            

Marc D. Hamburg    

Senior Vice President and    

Principal Financial Officer    
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

/s/    W ARREN  E.
B UFFETT               Warren E. Buffett    
      
  Chairman of the Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer  
     
    February 27, 2009     Date    

/s/    H OWARD  G.
B UFFETT               Howard G. Buffett    
      
  Director  
     
    February 27, 2009     Date    

/s/    S USAN  L.
D ECKER               Susan L. Decker    
      
  Director  
     
    February 27, 2009     Date    

/s/    W ILLIAM  H. G ATES 
III              William H. Gates III    
      
  Director  
     
    February 27, 2009     Date    

/s/    D AVID  S.
G OTTESMAN               David S. Gottesman    
      
  Director  
     
    February 27, 2009     Date    

/s/    C HARLOTTE 
G UYMAN               Charlotte Guyman    
      
  Director  
     
    February 27, 2009     Date    

/s/    D ONALD  R.
K EOUGH               Donald R. Keough    
      
  Director  
     
    February 27, 2009     Date    

/s/    C HARLES  T.
M UNGER               Charles T. Munger    
      
  Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors  
     
    February 27, 2009     Date    

/s/    T HOMAS  S.
M URPHY               Thomas S. Murphy    
      
  Director  
     
    February 27, 2009     Date    

/s/    R ONALD  L.
O LSON               Ronald L. Olson    
      
  Director  
     
    February 27, 2009     Date    

/s/    W ALTER  S COTT ,
J R .              Walter Scott, Jr.    
      
  Director  
     
    February 27, 2009     Date    

/s/    M ARC  D.
H AMBURG               Marc D. Hamburg    
      
  Senior Vice President Principal Financial Officer  
     
    February 27, 2009     Date    

/s/    D ANIEL  J.
J AKSICH               Daniel J. Jaksich    
      
  Vice President Controller  
     
    February 27, 2009     Date    
       
   95   

Table of Contents  

      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of      Berkshire Hathaway Inc.
     Omaha, Nebraska      We have audited the
consolidated financial statements of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, and for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2008, and the Company s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2008, and have issued our report thereon dated February 27, 2009; such consolidated financial statements and report are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also
included the financial statement schedule of the Company listed in Item 15. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our
opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.      DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP      Omaha, Nebraska      February 27, 2009         
   96   

Table of Contents  

      BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        (Parent Company)        Condensed Financial
Information        (Dollars in millions)        Schedule I        Balance Sheets        
     Statements of Earnings        
     See Note to Condensed Financial Information          
   97   

Table of Contents  

    BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        (Parent Company)        Condensed Financial Information        (Dollars in millions)        Schedule I
(continued)        Statements of Cash Flows        
     Note to Condensed Financial Information       Berkshire s borrowings at December 31, 2008 and 2007 included $244 million and $250 million, respectively, from investment agreements.
Principal is payable under certain conditions at par prior to maturity. As of December 31, 2008 all borrowings have contractual maturity dates after 2013.      Berkshire Hathaway Inc. has guaranteed certain debt obligations of its wholly owned subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2008, the unpaid balance of subsidiary debt guaranteed by Berkshire totaled approximately $13.5
billion. Berkshire s guarantee of subsidiary debt is an absolute, unconditional and irrevocable guarantee for the full and prompt payment when due of all present and future payment obligations. Berkshire also provides guarantees in connection
with long-term equity index put option and credit default contracts entered into by a subsidiary. The estimated fair value of liabilities recorded under such contracts was approximately $14.1 billion as of December 31, 2008. The amount of
subsidiary payments under these contracts, if any, is contingent upon future events. The timing of subsidiary payments, if any, will not be fully known until the expiration of the contracts over the next 20 years.         
   98   

Table of Contents  

      EXHIBIT INDEX        

Exhibit No.    

2  
     
  Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of June 19, 1998 between Registrant and General Re Corporation.   

Incorporated by reference to Annex I to Registration Statement No. 333-61129 filed on Form S-4.    

3(i)  
     
  Restated Certificate of Incorporation as Amended   

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to Form 10-Q for the period ended June 30, 2005.    

3(ii)  
     
  By-Laws   

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.1 to Form 8-K filed on May 8, 2007.    

4.1  
     
  Form of Indenture dated as of October 6, 2003, between Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation, Berkshire Hathaway Inc. and JP Morgan Trust Company (as successor trustee to Bank One Trust
Company, N.A.)   

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Form 8-K of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. filed on October 8, 2003.    

Other instruments defining the rights of holders of long-term debt of Registrant and its subsidiaries are not being filed since the total amount of securities authorized by all other such
instruments does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the Registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 2008. The Registrant hereby agrees to furnish to the Commission upon request a copy of any such debt instrument to
which it is a party.    

12  
     
    Calculation of Ratio of Consolidated Earnings to Consolidated Fixed Charges    

14  
     
  Code of Ethics   

Berkshire s Code of Business Conduct and Ethics is posted on its Internet website     at  www.berkshirehathaway.com     

21  
     
  Subsidiaries of Registrant   

23  
     
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm   

31  
     
  Rule 13a 14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications   

32  
     
  Section 1350 Certifications   
       
   99   

<EX-12>
 2
 dex12.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

EXHIBIT 12 

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 12        BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Calculation of Ratio of Consolidated Earnings to
Consolidated Fixed Charges        (Dollars in millions)        

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 3
 dex21.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

EXHIBIT 21 

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 21        BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)       December 31, 2008        

Company Name    
      
     Domicile or State of Incorporation     
 
    Acme Brick Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Acme Building Brands, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Albecca Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Anderson Hardwood Floors, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Applied Underwriters, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Ben Bridge Corporation   
      
  Washington   
 
    Ben Bridge Jeweler, Inc.   
      
  Washington   
 
    Benjamin Moore   Co.   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    Benjamin Moore   Co., Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Assurance Corporation   
      
  New York   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Credit Corporation   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Finance Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway International Insurance Limited (UK)   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Berkshire Hathaway Life Insurance Company of Nebraska   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    BHSF, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BH Finance LLC   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    BH Shoe Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Blue Chip Stamps   
      
  California   
 
    Boat America Corporation   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Borsheim Jewelry Company, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Bushwick Metals, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Business Wire, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    California Insurance Company   
      
  Iowa   
 
    Campbell Hausfeld/Scott Fetzer Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CE Electric UK Funding Company   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    CE Electric UK Holdings   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Central States Indemnity Co. of Omaha   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Central States of Omaha Companies, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Cerro Flow Products, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cerro Wire Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Clayton Homes, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CMH Homes, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    CMH Manufacturing, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    CMH Parks, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    Columbia Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Cornhusker Casualty Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    CORT Business Services Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    CTB International Corp.   
      
  Indiana   
 
    Cypress Insurance Company   
      
  California   
 
    EcoWater Systems LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    EXSIF Worldwide, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fairfield Insurance Company   
      
  Connecticut   
 
    Faraday Reinsurance Co. Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Faraday Underwriting Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    The Fechheimer Brothers Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FlightSafety International Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    FlightSafety Services Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Forest River, Inc.   
      
  Indiana   
 
    Fruit of the Loom, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Garan, Incorporated   
      
  Virginia   
 
    GEICO Casualty Company   
      
  Maryland   

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 21        BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)       December 31, 2008        

Company Name    
      
     Domicile or State of Incorporation     
 
    GEICO Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GEICO General Insurance Company   
      
  Maryland   
 
    GEICO Indemnity Company   
      
  Maryland   
 
    GRD Holdings Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Gen Re Intermediaries Corporation   
      
  New York   
 
    General Re Life Corporation   
      
  Connecticut   
 
    General Re Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Re Financial Products Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Re Services Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Reinsurance Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    General Star Indemnity Company   
      
  Connecticut   
 
    General Star National Insurance Company   
      
  Ohio   
 
    General Reinsurance Life Australia Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    General Reinsurance Africa Ltd.   
      
  South Africa   
 
    General Reinsurance Australia Ltd.   
      
  Australia   
 
    General Reinsurance UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Genesis Indemnity Insurance Company   
      
  North Dakota   
 
    Genesis Insurance Company   
      
  Connecticut   
 
    Government Employees Insurance Company   
      
  Maryland   
 
    Helzberg s Diamond Shops, Inc.   
      
  Missouri   
 
    H. H. Brown Shoe Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Homemakers Plaza, Inc.   
      
  Iowa   
 
    HomeServices of America, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    International Dairy Queen, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    IMC International Metalworking Companies B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    IMC Holdings GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Ingersoll Cutting Tool Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ingersoll Maschinen Werkzerge GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Iscar Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Johns Manville   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Johns Manville Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Johns Manville Slovakia, a.s.   
      
  Slovakia   
 
    Jordan s Furniture, Inc.   
      
  Massachusetts   
 
    Justin Brands, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Justin Industries, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    The Kansas Bankers Surety Company   
      
  Kansas   
 
    Kern River Gas Transmission Company   
      
  Texas   
 
    K lnische R ckversicherungs-Gesellschaft AG   
      
  Germany   
 
    KR Holding, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    L.A. Darling Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Larson-Juhl US LLC   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Marmon Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Marmon/Keystone Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    McLane Company, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    McLane Foodservice, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    The Medical Protective Company   
      
  Indiana   
 
    Medical Protective Corporation   
      
  Indiana   
 
    MEHC Investment, Inc.   
      
  South Dakota   
 
    MHC Inc.   
      
  Iowa   
 
    MidAmerican Energy Company   
      
  Iowa   

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 21        BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)       December 31, 2008        

Company Name    
      
     Domicile or State of Incorporation     
 
    MidAmerican Energy Holdings Company   
      
  Iowa   
 
    MidAmerican Funding, LLC   
      
  Iowa   
 
    MiTek, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mount Vernon Fire Insurance Company   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    National Fire   Marine Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    National Indemnity Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    National Indemnity Company of the South   
      
  Florida   
 
    National Indemnity Company of Mid-America   
      
  Iowa   
 
    National Liability and Fire Insurance Company   
      
  Connecticut   
 
    National Reinsurance Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Nebraska Furniture Mart, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Nederlandse Reassurantie Groep NV   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    NetJets Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    NNGC Acquisition, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Northern Natural Gas Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Oak River Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    OBH Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    OCSAP, Ltd.   
      
  Maine   
 
    PacifiCorp   
      
  Oregon   
 
    The Pampered Chef, Ltd.   
      
  Illinois   
 
    PPW Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Precision Steel Warehouse, Inc.   
      
  Illinois   
 
    Railsplitter Holdings Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    R.C. Willey Home Furnishings   
      
  Utah   
 
    Redwood Fire and Casualty Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Richline Group, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    RSCC Wire   Cable, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Russell Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Schuller GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Scott Fetzer Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Scott Fetzer Financial Group, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    See s Candies, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    See s Candy Shops, Inc.   
      
  California   
 
    Shaw Contract Flooring Services, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Shaw Industries Group, Inc.   
      
  Georgia   
 
    Sofft Shoe Company, Inc.   
      
  New Hampshire   
 
    Star Furniture Company   
      
  Texas   
 
    Sterling Crane, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TaeguTec Ltd.   
      
  Korea   
 
    TTI, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Tungaloy Corporation   
      
  Japan   
 
    Unarco Industries, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Union Tank Car Company   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Union Underwear Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    United States Liability Insurance Company   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    U.S. Investment Corporation   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    U.S. Underwriters Insurance Company   
      
  North Dakota   
 
    Vanderbilt Mortgage   Finance, Inc.   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    Vanity Fair Brands, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Webb Wheel Products, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wells Lamont Corporation   
      
  Delaware   

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 21        BERKSHIRE HATHAWAY INC.        Subsidiaries of Registrant (1)       December 31, 2008        

Company Name    
      
     Domicile or State of Incorporation     
 
    Wesco Financial Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wesco-Financial Insurance Company   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    Wesco Holdings Midwest, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    World Book/Scott Fetzer Company, Inc.   
      
  Nebraska   
 
    XTRA Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    XTRA Finance Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    XTRA Lease LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    XTRA LLC   
      
  Maine   
 
    Yorkshire Electricity Distribution PLC   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Yorkshire Electricity Group PLC   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Yorkshire Holdings PLC   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Yorkshire Power Group Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   

(1)  
  Each of the named subsidiaries is not necessarily a  significant subsidiary  as defined in Rule 1-02(w) of Regulation S-X, and Berkshire has several additional
subsidiaries not named above. The unnamed subsidiaries, considered in the aggregate as a single subsidiary, would not constitute a  significant subsidiary  at the end of the year covered by this report.     

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 dex23.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

EXHIBIT 23 

Reg. S-K        Item 601        Exhibit 23        CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM       We consent to the
incorporation by reference in Registration Statement No. 333-61350 on Form S-3 and Registration Statement Nos. 333-43366, 333-70609, 333-74312, 333-75612, 333-101662, and 333-111614 on Form S-8 of our report dated February 27, 2009,
relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Berkshire Hathaway Inc., and the effectiveness of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form
10-K of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. for the year ended December 31, 2008.      DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP      Omaha, Nebraska      February 27, 2009   

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 dex311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

EXHIBIT 31.1 

EXHIBIT 31.1        FORM 10-K        Year ended December 31, 2008        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications        CERTIFICATIONS       I, Warren E. Buffett, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: February 27, 2009        

/s/    W ARREN  E. B UFFETT            

Chairman Principal Executive Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 dex312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

EXHIBIT 31.2 

EXHIBIT 31.2        FORM 10-K        Year ended December 31, 2008        Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications        CERTIFICATIONS       I, Marc D. Hamburg, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Berkshire Hathaway Inc.;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):         

a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.
       Date: February 27, 2009        

/s/    M ARC  D. H AMBURG            
 
   Senior Vice President Principal Financial Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 dex321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

EXHIBIT 32.1 

EXHIBIT 32.1        FORM 10-K        Section 1350 Certifications        Year ended December 31, 2008       I,
Warren E. Buffett, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (the  Company ), certify, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to the best of my knowledge:

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.        Dated: February 27, 2009        

/s/    W ARREN  E. B UFFETT            

Warren E. Buffett       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer     

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 8
 dex322.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

EXHIBIT 32.2 

EXHIBIT 32.2        FORM 10-K        Section 1350 Certifications        Year ended December 31, 2008       I,
Marc D. Hamburg, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Berkshire Hathaway Inc. (the  Company ), certify, pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, that to the best of my
knowledge:       

(2)  
  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.        Dated: February 27, 2009        

/s/    M ARC  D. H AMBURG            
 
     Marc D. Hamburg       Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-32.2>

10-K
 9
 d10k1.pdf
 PDF OF THE FORM 10-K

