<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20150209_10-K_edgar_data_40533_0000040533-15-000009_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>23981703</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>264018</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>6602647</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>6082728</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7193517</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>3538132</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>101</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000040533-15-000009.hdr.sgml : 20150209
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20150209120820
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000040533-15-000009
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		28
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20141231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20150209
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20150209

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			GENERAL DYNAMICS CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000040533
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SHIP & BOAT BUILDING & REPAIRING [3730]
		IRS NUMBER:				131673581
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-03671
		FILM NUMBER:		15587417

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2941 FAIRVIEW PARK DRIVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 100
		CITY:			FALLS CHURCH
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			22042-4513
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7038763000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2941 FAIRVIEW PARK DRIVE
		STREET 2:		SUITE 100
		CITY:			FALLS CHURCH
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			22042-4513

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000040533-15-000009.txt : 20150209

10-K
 1
 gd-2014123110k.htm
 10-K

GD-2014.12.31 10K 

U  NITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C.  20549 
    
  FORM 10-K 
    
  (Mark One) 
  [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
    
  For the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2014    
  OR 
  [  ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
    
  For the transition period from _______ to _______ 
    
  Commission File Number 1-3671 
    
  GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                   Title of each class 
      
    Name of exchange on which registered 
      Common stock, par value $1 per share 
      
    New York Stock Exchange 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
               None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes                   No ___ 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes ___      No            
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes                  No ___ 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes                   No ___  
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment of this Form 10-K ___ 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
  Large Accelerated Filer             Accelerated Filer __  Non-Accelerated Filer __ Smaller Reporting Company ___ 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  Yes                 No              
  The aggregate market value of the voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the registrant was   $37,171,450,405   as of   June 29, 2014   (based on the closing price of the shares on the New York Stock Exchange). 
  331,704,599   shares of the registrant s common stock, $1 par value per share, were outstanding on   February 1, 2015  . 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 
  Part III incorporates by reference information from certain portions of the registrant s definitive proxy statement for the   2015   annual meeting of shareholders to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days after the close of the fiscal year. 

INDEX 
                   PART I  
      
    PAGE 
      Item 1. 
     Business  
    3 
      Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
    15 
      Item 1B. 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    19 
      Item 2. 
     Properties  
    19 
      Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
    20 
      Item 4. 
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    20 
      PART II  

Item 5. 
     Market for the Company's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    22 
      Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
    24 
      Item 7. 
     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    25 
      Item 7A.  
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  
    49 
      Item 8. 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    50 
      Item 9.  
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    90 
      Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
    90 
      Item 9B. 
     Other Information  
    93 
      PART III  

Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    93 
      Item 11. 
     Executive Compensation  
    94 
      Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    94 
      Item 13.  
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    94 
      Item 14. 
     Principal Accountant Fees a   nd Services 
    94 
      PART IV  

Item 15.  
     Exhibits   
    94 
        
     Signatures  
    95 
        
     Index to Exhibits  
    97 

2 

PART     I 
    
    ITEM 1.   BUSINESS 
    
  BUSINESS OVERVIEW 
  General Dynamics is an aerospace and defense company that offers a broad portfolio of products and services in business aviation; combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions; communications and information technology systems and solutions; and shipbuilding. Our management team delivers shareholder returns through disciplined execution of backlog, efficient cash-flow conversion and prudent capital deployment. We manage costs, undertake continuous-improvement initiatives and collaborate across our businesses to achieve our goals of maximizing earnings and cash and creating value for our shareholders.  
  Incorporated in Delaware in 1952, General Dynamics grew organically and through acquisitions until the early 1990s when we sold nearly all of our divisions except Electric Boat and Land Systems. Starting in the mid-1990s, we began expanding by acquiring combat vehicle-related businesses, information technology product and service companies, additional shipyards and Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation.  
  We operate globally through four business groups: Aerospace, Combat Systems, Information Systems and Technology and Marine Systems. For selected financial information regarding each of our business groups, see Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  
  AEROSPACE 
  Our Aerospace group designs, manufactures and outfits a family of Gulfstream business-jet aircraft, provides aircraft services (including maintenance and repair work, fixed-based operations (FBO) and aircraft management services) and performs aircraft completions for aircraft produced by other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs). With more than 50 years of experience at the forefront of the business-jet market, the Aerospace group is known for: 

superior aircraft design, quality, performance, safety and reliability; 
                
    technologically advanced cockpit and cabin systems; and 
                
    industry-leading product service and support. 
     The Gulfstream product line includes aircraft across a spectrum of price and performance options in the large- and mid-cabin business-jet market. The varying ranges, speeds and cabin dimensions are well-suited for the needs of a diverse and global customer base. The large-cabin models are manufactured at Gulfstream s headquarters in Savannah, Georgia, while the mid-cabin models are constructed by a non-U.S. partner. All models are outfitted in the group s U.S. facilities. 
  Demand for Gulfstream aircraft is strong across geographic regions and customer types, generating orders from public and private companies, individuals and governments around the world. The Gulfstream brand is recognized globally with non-U.S. customers representing approximately 60 percent of the group s backlog on December 31, 2014. 
  We are committed to research and development (R D) activities that facilitate the introduction of new products and first-to-market enhancements that broaden customer choice, improve aircraft performance and set new standards for customer safety, comfort and in-flight productivity. In 2014, we introduced three new large-cabin business jets, the G500, the G600 and the G650ER. The G500 and G600 are clean-sheet next-generation business jets that optimize the speed, wide-cabin comfort, efficiency and advanced safety technology of the aircraft. At Mach 0.85, the G500 can fly 5,000 nautical miles, and the G600 can fly 6,200  
    3 

nautical miles. The G500 and G600 are expected to enter into service in 2018 and 2019, respectively.  The G650ER is the extended-range sister-ship to the ultra-long range, ultra-large cabin G650. This new aircraft flies farther at faster speeds than any other business jet on the market and can travel 7,500 nautical miles at Mach 0.85. The first G650ER was delivered in the fourth quarter of 2014, ahead of the original 2015 estimate. These three new aircraft demonstrate the success of consistent and disciplined investment in Gulfstream s product development. 
  In addition to the new aircraft models, current product enhancement and development efforts include initiatives in advanced avionics, composites, renewable fuels, flight-control systems, acoustics, cabin technologies and vision systems. One recent innovation introduced with the G500 and G600 is the Symmetry Flight Deck that includes 10 touchscreens and active control sidesticks. The active control sidesticks allow the pilot and co-pilot to see and feel each other s control inputs, enhancing their situational awareness and safety of the flight. We have also introduced several service and support applications including the PlaneBook application, which provides pilots easy and immediate digital access to critical flight information and aircraft-specific documents. 
  In support of Gulfstream s growing aircraft portfolio and international customer base, we have invested in a multi-year facilities project at our Savannah campus, which is scheduled to continue through 2017. This expansion consists of constructing new facilities, including the completed purpose-built manufacturing facilities for production of the G500 and G600, and renovating existing infrastructure. This effort follows earlier projects that included a purpose-built G650 manufacturing facility, increased aircraft-service capacity, an improved customer sales and design center and a state-of-the-art paint facility. 
  The group offers extensive support of the nearly 2,500 Gulfstream aircraft in service with professionals located around the globe. The service network for Gulfstream aircraft continues to evolve to address the demands of the group s growing international customer base. We operate 11 company-owned service centers, maintain 15 authorized warranty centers and maintenance facilities on six continents, and offer on-call Gulfstream aircraft technicians ready to deploy for urgent customer-service requirements in the Americas. This commitment to superior product support continues to receive industry recognition, including the number-one ranking for the 12th consecutive year in the annual Aviation International News Product Support Survey, as well as the top ranking in the annual Professional Pilot Survey. 
  Jet Aviation augments our Aerospace portfolio with completions (avionics, interior outfitting and paint) for business-jet customers, as well as custom, complex completions of single- and double-aisle aircraft requiring advanced engineering, design and manufacturing capabilities. In addition, Jet Aviation provides superior maintenance, repair, aircraft management and FBO services to a broad global customer base through a network of facilities across four continents.  
  A market leader in the business-aviation industry, the Aerospace group is focused on developing innovative first-to-market technologies and products; providing exemplary and timely service to customers globally; and driving efficiencies and reducing costs in the aircraft production, outfitting and service processes. 
  Revenues for the Aerospace group were   28 percent   of our consolidated revenues in   2014  ,   26 percent   in   2013   and   22 percent   in   2012  . Revenues by major products and services were as follows: 
    
    4 

COMBAT SYSTEMS 
  Our Combat Systems group is a global leader in systems engineering, spanning design, development, manufacture and support of military vehicles, weapons systems and munitions for the United States and its allies. The group s product lines include: 

wheeled combat and tactical vehicles, 
                
    main battle tanks and tracked combat vehicles, 
                
    weapons systems and munitions, and  
                
    maintenance and logistics support and sustainment services. 
     The group s backlog, which reached a historic high in 2014, includes a diverse mix of products supporting domestic and non-U.S. customers. We pursue continuous process improvements to enhance our productivity and improve our operating performance as we deliver on this backlog. We apply our systems-level engineering expertise to develop improvements that advance the utility, safety and mission-effectiveness of our products. 
  Our portfolio of military vehicles, produced at our operations in North America and Europe, includes heavy, medium and light wheeled vehicles and heavy and medium tracked vehicles. This extensive product line allows us to be agile in providing tailored solutions to our customers.  
  The group has a market-leading position in the light armored vehicle (LAV) market. We have a $10 billion contract with an international customer to provide wheeled armored vehicles through 2028. This contract includes vehicle production and contractor logistics support.   
  We offer several products in the medium wheeled vehicle segment, including the Stryker combat vehicle. Stryker has proven itself as one of the most versatile combat-tested vehicles in the U.S. Army inventory, combining agility and firepower into a deployable and responsive combat support vehicle. There are currently 10 variants of the Stryker, including the M1127 Reconnaissance Vehicle and the M1133 Medical Evacuation Vehicle. The Army is planning to convert all nine of its Stryker Brigade Combat Teams to the double-V-hulled configuration, which significantly improves protection for soldiers from improvised explosive devices (IEDs). In addition to the Stryker program, we are modernizing approximately   600   LAV III combat vehicles for the Canadian government and have delivered numerous Piranha and Pandur armored vehicles to various foreign governments. 
  Leveraging our prior experience in the light wheeled vehicle market, the group is under contract with U.S. Special Operations Command to produce the Ground Mobility Vehicle (GMV) and the Internally-Transportable Vehicle (ITV), a narrow version of the GMV. We are also delivering the Foxhound vehicle to the U.K. Ministry of Defence (MoD), and the Eagle vehicle to Germany. 
  We continue to support the evolving needs of the U.S. Army and Marine Corps with technology upgrades to the Abrams main battle tank family of vehicles. The group is currently upgrading Abrams tanks with the System Enhancement Package (SEP) that provides a digital platform with an enhanced command-and-control system, new power generation and distribution systems, second-generation thermal sights and improved armor.  
    5 

Our position in the medium tracked vehicle segment grew in 2014 with a 10-year contract to build the Specialist Vehicle (SV) for the U.K. MoD.  SV is the next generation of armoured fighting vehicles in the United Kingdom. The contract positions us as a leading provider of the U.K. s combat vehicles.   
  With our large installed base of vehicles worldwide, we are positioned for future modernization programs, as well as opportunities for support and sustainment services. For example, we are under contract with the Marine Corps to reset Cougar vehicles.  In addition, with the expertise gained from our engineering and production programs across our product portfolio, we are well-qualified to participate in future combat vehicle development programs.  
  Complementing these military-vehicle offerings, the group designs, develops and produces a comprehensive array of weapons systems across the battle spectrum. For ground forces, we manufacture M2/M2-A1 heavy machine guns and MK19/ MK47 grenade launchers. The group also produces legacy and next-generation weapons systems for shipboard applications, including the Navy s Phalanx Close-In Weapon System (CIWS), multiple subsystems for the Littoral Combat Ship (LCS), and DDG-1000 destroyer firepower mission modules. For airborne platforms, we produce weapons for U.S. and non-U.S. fighter aircraft, including high-speed Gatling guns for all U.S. fixed-wing military aircraft. The group is also a significant supplier of composite structures and aircraft components.   
  Our munitions portfolio covers the full breadth of naval, air and ground forces applications across all calibers and weapons platforms for the U.S. government and its allies. The group maintains a market-leading position in the supply of Hydra-70 rockets, large-caliber tank ammunition, medium-caliber ammunition, mortar and artillery projectiles, tactical missile aerostructures and high-performance warheads, military propellants, and conventional bombs and bomb cases. 
  The Combat Systems group emphasizes operational execution and business optimization initiatives as the group delivers on our backlog. As part of these efforts, the group has undertaken restructuring activities to ensure we remain competitively positioned for the future. In an environment of dynamic threats and evolving customer needs, the group remains agile and focused on innovation, affordability and speed-to-market to deliver on our current programs and to secure new opportunities. 
  Revenues for the Combat Systems group were   18 percent   of our consolidated revenues in   2014  ,   19 percent   in   2013   and   24 percent   in   2012  . Revenues by major products and services were as follows: 

INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY 
  Our Information Systems and Technology group provides technologies, products and services that address a wide range of military, federal/civilian and commercial information-systems requirements. The group s leadership in this market results from decades of domain expertise, incumbency on high-priority programs and continuous innovation to deliver solutions that meet our customers  needs. We provide full-spectrum support for the design, development, integration, production and sustainment of: 

information technology (IT) solutions and mission support services, and 
       6 

mobile communication systems and intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) solutions. 
     IT solutions and mission support services:   We provide professional and technical services to the U.S. defense and intelligence communities, the Departments of Homeland Security and Health and Human Services, other federal/civilian agencies, and commercial and non-U.S. customers. The group s technical support personnel and domain specialists help customers meet critical planning, staffing, technology and operational needs.  
  The group designs, builds and operates large-scale, secure IT networks and systems for U.S. government customers, commercial wireless network providers, and federal, state and local public safety agencies. We work closely with our customers to ensure their network infrastructures are secure, efficient, scalable and cost-effective. We are also at the forefront of cloud and virtualization technologies and services. For example, the group is implementing the Department of Defense s (DoD) largest enterprise-wide email infrastructure and a virtual desktop environment for the intelligence community. 
  As a leading provider in the U.S. healthcare IT market, we support government civilian and military health systems, providing critical services in support of healthcare reform and medical benefits programs. Our offerings include data management, analytics, fraud prevention and detection software, process automation and program management solutions for public and commercial health systems. We are operating customer contact centers for the Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services, responding to consumer inquiries about key Medicare and Affordable Care Act programs. 
  Mobile communication systems and ISR solutions:   We design, build, deploy and support solutions for customers in the U.S. defense, intelligence and homeland security communities, and U.S. allies. Our offerings include secure communications systems, command and control solutions, signals and information collection, processing and distribution systems; imagery sensors; and cyber security, information assurance, and encryption products, systems and services.  
  We integrate and manufacture secure communications systems for customers in the DoD, the intelligence community, federal/civilian and public safety agencies, and for non-U.S. customers. These solutions, which include fixed and mobile ground, radio and satellite communications systems and antenna technologies, improve our customers  ability to communicate, collaborate and access vital information.  
  The group is delivering a modern, secure network to the U.S. Army, known as the Soldier s Network, which provides tactical voice and data communications to soldiers anywhere on the battlefield. We are the prime contractor for Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (WIN-T), the Army s backbone mobile communications network, and we are the prime contractor on many of the Army s core tactical radio programs, including the AN/PRC-154A Rifleman and AN/PRC-155 two-channel Manpack radios. We are developing and deploying the Mobile User Objective System (MUOS) communication waveform and ground system, which will help provide the satellite link to soldiers on the ground so they can access voice, video and data communications in the most remote locations. 
  The Information Systems and Technology group provides many of these capabilities to non-U.S. public agencies and commercial customers. For the Canadian Department of National Defence, we developed, deployed and continue to modernize and support the Canadian Army s fully integrated, secure combat voice and data network. We leveraged this experience to deliver the U.K. MoD s Bowman tactical communication system, for which we currently provide ongoing support and capability upgrades. 
  In command-and-control systems, we have a 50-year legacy of providing advanced fire-control systems for U.S. Navy submarine programs and we are developing and integrating commercial off-the-shelf software and hardware upgrades to improve the tactical control capabilities for several submarine classes. Capitalizing on this expertise, we developed the combat and seaframe control systems and we are the lead systems  
    7 

integrator for the Navy s Independence-variant LCS and the electronic systems for the Navy s Joint High Speed Vessel (JHSV).  
  Information Systems and Technology provides ISR solutions for classified programs. Our expertise includes multi-intelligence ground systems and large-scale, high-performance data and signal processing. We deliver high-reliability, long-life sensors and payloads designed to perform in the most extreme environments, including space payloads and undersea sensor and power systems. 
  The group offers comprehensive cyber security-related products and services to help customers protect their networks from internal and external threats and prevent data breaches. For more than 45 years we have developed information assurance technologies that are integral to defending critical information, including a widely deployed Type 1 network encryptor. We also support the DoD s Cyber Crime Center and the Department of Homeland Security s National Cybersecurity Protection System.  
  The group is well-positioned to continue meeting the needs of our diverse customer base in an increasingly competitive market. We are improving the group s performance and competitive position by optimizing the size of the business, harmonizing capabilities throughout the portfolio and developing innovative solutions to meet evolving customer requirements. Consistent with this focus, in 2014 we announced the consolidation of two businesses in the group to form General Dynamics Mission Systems in an effort to be more efficient and responsive to our customers. The consolidation was effective in January 2015. 
  Revenues for the Information Systems and Technology group were   30 percent   of our consolidated revenues in   2014   and   33 percent   in   2013   and   2012  . Revenues by major products and services were as follows: 

MARINE SYSTEMS 
  Our Marine Systems group designs, builds and supports submarines and surface ships for the U.S. Navy and Jones Act ships for commercial customers. We are one of two primary shipbuilders for the Navy. The group s diverse portfolio of platforms and capabilities includes: 

nuclear-powered submarines; 
                
    surface combatants; 
                
    auxiliary and combat-logistics ships; 
                
    commercial product carriers and containerships; 
                
    design and engineering support; and 
                
    overhaul, repair and lifecycle support services. 
     Our work for the Navy includes the construction of new ships and the design and development of next-generation platforms to help meet evolving missions and maintain desired fleet size. Approximately   95 percent   of the group s revenues are for major Navy ship-construction programs awarded under large, multi-ship contracts that span several years. These programs include Virginia-class nuclear-powered submarines, Arleigh Burke-class (DDG-51) and Zumwalt-class (DDG-1000) guided-missile destroyers, and Mobile Landing Platform (MLP) auxiliary support ships. 
    8 

The Virginia-class submarine includes capabilities for open-ocean and littoral missions. These stealthy boats are well-suited for a variety of global assignments, including intelligence gathering, special-operations missions and sea-based missile launch. The Navy is procuring Virginia-class submarines in multi-boat blocks. In   2014  , we received a contract for the construction of 10 submarines in the fourth block of the program, bringing the number of boats under contract to   28  . The group has delivered   11   of these boats in conjunction with an industry partner that shares in the construction. The remaining   17   boats under contract are scheduled for delivery through   2023  .  
  We are the lead designer and producer of DDG-51s, managing the design, modernization and lifecycle support of these ships. As the only active destroyer in the Navy s global surface fleet, DDG-51s are multi-mission combatants that offer defense against a wide range of threats, including ballistic missiles. We currently have construction contracts for   seven   DDG-51s scheduled for delivery through   2022  . 
  The group is one of the Navy's contractors involved in development and construction of the DDG-1000 platform. These ships are equipped with numerous technological enhancements, including a low radar profile, an integrated power system and advanced gun systems that provide a three-fold increase in range over current naval surface gun weapons. Deliveries of the   three   ships in the program are scheduled through   2019  .  
  MLP ships serve as floating transfer stations, improving the Navy s ability to deliver equipment and cargo to areas without adequate port access. The group has delivered the first two ships in the program, and construction is underway on two additional ships scheduled for delivery in   2015   and   2018  . The third and fourth ships are configured as Afloat Forward Staging Bases (AFSB), designed to facilitate a variety of missions in support of mine countermeasures and special operations, providing significant new capabilities to the customer.  
  In addition to these ship construction programs, we are advancing new technologies and naval platforms with our customers. These design and engineering efforts include the development of the next-generation ballistic-missile submarine to replace the Ohio class of ballistic-missile submarines. In conjunction with these efforts, the group is leading the design of the Common Missile Compartment under joint development for the U.S. Navy and the U.K. Royal Navy. 
  Marine Systems provides comprehensive ship and submarine overhaul, repair and lifecycle support services to extend the service life and maximize the value of these ships. We conduct surface-ship repair operations in four locations with full-service maintenance and repair shipyards on both U.S. Coasts. We also provide extensive submarine repair services in a variety of U.S. locations and convert decommissioned submarines to moored training platforms. In support of allied navies, we offer program management, planning, engineering and design support for submarine and surface-ship construction programs.  
  Beyond its work for the Navy, Marine Systems is advancing commercial shipbuilding technology with the design and production of liquefied natural gas (LNG)-powered and LNG-conversion-ready ships for commercial customers that meet the Jones Act requirement for ships carrying cargo between U.S. ports to be built in U.S. shipyards. Currently, we have construction contracts for   10   ships scheduled for delivery through   2017  . Construction is underway on five ships, with all 10 expected to be at various stages of construction by the end of 2015. We anticipate that the age of the Jones Act fleet and environmental regulations that impose more stringent emission control limits will continue to provide additional commercial shipbuilding opportunities. 
  To further the group s goals of operating efficiency, innovation, affordability for the customer and continuous improvement, we make strategic investments in our business, often in cooperation with the Navy and local governments. In addition, Marine Systems leverages its design and engineering expertise across  
    9 

its shipyards to improve program execution and generate cost savings. This knowledge-sharing enables the group to use resources more efficiently and drive process improvements. We are well-positioned to continue to fulfill the ship-construction and support requirements of our customers. 
  Revenues for the Marine Systems group were   24 percent   of our consolidated revenues in   2014  ,   22 percent    in   2013   and   21 percent   in   2012  . Revenues by major products and services were as follows: 

CUSTOMERS 
  In   2014  ,   58 percent   of our revenues were from the U.S. government,   17 percent   were from U.S. commercial customers,   14 percent   were from non-U.S. commercial customers and the remaining   11 percent   were from non-U.S. defense customers. 
  U.S. GOVERNMENT 
  Our primary customer is the U.S. Department of Defense (DoD). We also contract with other U.S. government customers, including the intelligence community, the Departments of Homeland Security and Health and Human Services and first-responder agencies. Our revenues from the U.S. government were as follows: 

* In addition to our direct non-U.S. sales, we sell to non-U.S. governments through the FMS program. Under the FMS program, we contract with and are paid by the U.S. government, and the U.S. government assumes the risk of collection from the non-U.S. government customer. 
  We perform our U.S. government business under fixed-price, cost-reimbursement and time-and-materials contracts. Our production contracts are primarily fixed-price. Under these contracts, we agree to perform a specific scope of work for a fixed amount. Contracts for research, engineering, repair and maintenance and other services are typically cost-reimbursement or time-and-materials. Under cost-reimbursement contracts, the customer reimburses contract costs and pays a fixed, incentive or award-based fee. These fees are determined by our ability to achieve targets set in the contract, such as cost, quality, schedule and performance. Under time-and-materials contracts, the customer pays a fixed hourly rate for direct labor and generally reimburses us for the cost of materials. 
  In our U.S. government business, fixed-price contracts accounted for   53 percent   in   2014  ,   54 percent   in   2013   and   56 percent   in   2012  ; cost-reimbursement contracts accounted for   43 percent   in   2014  ,   42 percent   in   2013   and   39 percent   in   2012  ; and time-and-materials contracts accounted for   4 percent   in   2014   and   2013   and   5 percent   in   2012  . 
  Each of these contract types presents advantages and disadvantages. Fixed-price contracts typically have higher fee levels as we assume more risk. These types of contracts offer additional profits when we complete the work for less than the contract amount. Cost-reimbursement contracts generally subject us to lower risk.  
    10 

Accordingly, the negotiated fees are usually lower than fees earned on fixed-price contracts. Additionally, not all costs are allowable under these types of contracts, and the government reviews the costs we charge. Under time-and-materials contracts, our profit may vary if actual labor-hour costs vary significantly from the negotiated rates. Also, because these contracts can provide little or no fee for managing material costs, the content mix can impact profit margin rates. 
  U.S. COMMERCIAL 
  Our U.S. commercial revenues were   $5.3 billion   in   2014  ,   $5.4 billion   in   2013   and   $3.8 billion   in   2012  . This represented approximately   17 percent   of our consolidated revenues in   2014  ,   18 percent   in   2013   and   12 percent   in   2012  . The majority of these revenues are for business-jet aircraft and services where our customer base consists of individuals and public and privately held companies across a wide range of industries.  
    
  NON-U.S. 
  Our direct revenues from non-U.S. government and commercial customers were   $7.6 billion   in   2014  ,   $6.3 billion   in   2013   and   $6.4 billion   in   2012  . This represented approximately   25 percent   of our consolidated revenues in   2014  ,   20 percent   in   2013   and   21 percent   in   2012  . 
  We conduct business with government customers around the world with operations in Australia, Canada, Germany, Mexico, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. Our non-U.S. defense subsidiaries are committed to maintaining long-term relationships with their respective governments and have established themselves as principal regional suppliers and employers. 
  Our non-U.S. commercial business consists primarily of business-jet aircraft exports and worldwide aircraft services. The market for business-jet aircraft and related services outside North America has expanded significantly in recent years. While the installed base of aircraft is concentrated in North America, orders from non-U.S. customers represent a significant segment of our aircraft business with approximately 60 percent of total backlog on   December 31, 2014  . 
  For a discussion of the risks associated with conducting business in locations outside the United States, see Risk Factors contained herein. For information regarding revenues and assets by geographic region, see Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 
  COMPETITION 
  Several factors determine our ability to compete successfully in the defense and business-aviation markets. While customers  evaluation criteria vary, the principal competitive elements include: 

the technical excellence, reliability, safety and cost competitiveness of our products and services; 
                
    our ability to innovate and develop new products and technologies that improve mission performance and adapt to dynamic threats; 
                
    successful program execution and on-time delivery of complex, integrated systems; 
                
    our global footprint and accessibility to customers; 
                
    the reputation and customer confidence derived from our past performance; and 
                
    the successful management of customer relationships. 
       
    11 

DEFENSE MARKET COMPETITION 
  The U.S. government contracts with numerous domestic and non-U.S. companies for products and services. We compete against other large-platform and system-integration contractors as well as smaller companies that specialize in a particular technology or capability. Outside the U.S., we compete with global defense contractors  exports and the offerings of private and state-owned defense manufacturers. Our Combat Systems group competes with a large number of domestic and non-U.S. businesses. Our Information Systems and Technology group competes with many companies, from large defense companies to small niche competitors with specialized technologies or expertise. Our Marine Systems group has one primary competitor with which it also partners on the Virginia-class submarine program. The operating cycle of many of our major platform programs can result in sustained periods of program continuity when we perform successfully. 
  We are involved in teaming and subcontracting relationships with some of our competitors. Competitions for major defense programs often require companies to form teams to bring together a spectrum of capabilities to meet the customer s requirements. Opportunities associated with these programs include roles as the program s integrator, overseeing and coordinating the efforts of all participants on a team, or as a provider of a specific component or subsystem. 
    
  BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT MARKET COMPETITION 
  The Aerospace group has several competitors for each of its Gulfstream products. Key competitive factors include aircraft safety, reliability and performance; comfort and in-flight productivity; service quality, global footprint and responsiveness; technological and new-product innovation; and price. We believe that Gulfstream competes effectively in all of these areas. 
  The Aerospace group competes worldwide in the business-jet aircraft services business primarily on the basis of price, quality and timeliness. In our maintenance, repair and FBO businesses, the group competes with several other large companies as well as a number of smaller companies, particularly in the maintenance business. In our completions business, the group competes with other OEMs, as well as several third-party providers. 
    
  BACKLOG 
  Our total backlog represents the estimated remaining value of work to be performed under firm contracts and includes funded and unfunded portions. For additional discussion of backlog, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7. 
    
  Summary backlog information for each of our business groups follows: 

12 

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT 
  To foster innovative product development and evolution, we conduct sustained R D activities as part of our normal business operations. In the commercial sector, most of our Aerospace group s R D activities support Gulfstream s product enhancement and development programs. In our U.S. defense businesses, we conduct customer-sponsored R D activities under government contracts and company-sponsored R D. In accordance with government regulations, we recover a portion of company-sponsored R D expenditures through overhead charges to U.S. government contracts. For more information on our company-sponsored R D activities, including our expenditures for the past three years, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  
  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY 
  We develop technology, manufacturing processes and systems-integration practices. In addition to owning a large portfolio of proprietary intellectual property, we license some intellectual property rights to and from others. The U.S. government holds licenses to many of our patents developed in the performance of U.S. government contracts, and it may use or authorize others to use the inventions covered by these patents. Although these intellectual property rights are important to the operation of our business, no existing patent, license or other intellectual property right is of such importance that its loss or termination would have a material impact on our business. 
  EMPLOYEES 
  On   December 31, 2014  , our subsidiaries had   99,500   employees, approximately   one-fifth   of whom work under collective agreements with various labor unions and worker representatives. Agreements covering approximately   2 percent   of total employees are due to expire in   2015  . Historically, we have negotiated successor labor agreements without any significant disruption to operating activities. 
  RAW MATERIALS, SUPPLIERS AND SEASONALITY 
  We depend on suppliers and subcontractors for raw materials, components and subsystems. These supply networks can experience price fluctuations and capacity constraints, which can put pressure on our costs. Effective management and oversight of suppliers and subcontractors is an important element of our successful performance. We attempt to mitigate these risks with our suppliers by entering into long-term agreements and leveraging company-wide agreements to achieve economies of scale, and by negotiating flexible pricing terms in our customer contracts. We have not experienced, and do not foresee, significant difficulties in obtaining the materials, components or supplies necessary for our business operations. 
  Our business is not seasonal in nature. The receipt of contract awards, the availability of funding from the customer, the incurrence of contract costs and unit deliveries are all factors that influence the timing of our revenues. In the U.S., these factors are influenced by the federal government s budget cycle based on its October-to-September fiscal year. Outside the U.S., work for many of our government customers is weighted toward the end of the calendar year. 
    
  REGULATORY MATTERS 
  U.S. GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS 
  U.S. government contracts are subject to procurement laws and regulations. The Federal Acquisition Regulation (FAR) and the Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) govern the majority of our contracts. The FAR mandates uniform policies and procedures for U.S. government acquisitions and purchased services. Also, individual agencies can have acquisition regulations that provide implementing language for the FAR or that supplement the FAR. For example, the DoD implements the FAR through the Defense Federal  
    13 

Acquisition Regulation Supplement (DFARS). For all federal government entities, the FAR regulates the phases of any product or service acquisition, including: 

acquisition planning, 
                
    competition requirements, 
                
    contractor qualifications, 
                
    protection of source selection and vendor information, and 
                
    acquisition procedures. 
     In addition, the FAR addresses the allowability of our costs, while the CAS address how those costs should be allocated to contracts. The FAR subjects us to audits and other government reviews covering issues such as cost, performance and accounting practices relating to our contracts. 
  NON-U.S. REGULATORY 
  Our non-U.S. revenues are subject to the applicable foreign government regulations and procurement policies and practices, as well as U.S. policies and regulations. We are also subject to regulations governing investments, exchange controls, repatriation of earnings and import-export control. 
  BUSINESS-JET AIRCRAFT 
  The Aerospace group is subject to Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) regulation in the U.S. and other similar aviation regulatory authorities internationally, including the Civil Aviation Administration of Israel (CAAI), the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA) and the Civil Aviation Administration of China (CAAC). For an aircraft to be manufactured and sold, the model must receive a type certificate from the appropriate aviation authority and each aircraft must receive a certificate of airworthiness. Aircraft outfitting and completions also require approval by the appropriate aviation authority, which often is accomplished through a supplemental type certificate. Aviation authorities can require changes to a specific aircraft or model type before granting approval. Maintenance facilities and charter operations must be licensed by aviation authorities as well. 
    
  ENVIRONMENTAL 
  We are subject to a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. These laws and regulations cover the discharge, treatment, storage, disposal, investigation and remediation of certain materials, substances and wastes. We are directly or indirectly involved in environmental investigations or remediation at some of our current and former facilities and at third-party sites that we do not own but where we have been designated a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency. As a PRP, we potentially are liable to the government or third parties for the cost of remediating contamination. In cases where we have been designated a PRP, generally we seek to mitigate these environmental liabilities through available insurance coverage and by pursuing appropriate cost-recovery actions. In the unlikely event we are required to fully fund the remediation of a site, the current statutory framework would allow us to pursue contributions from other PRPs. We regularly assess our compliance status and management of environmental matters. 
  Operating and maintenance costs associated with environmental compliance and management of contaminated sites are a normal, recurring part of our operations. Historically, these costs have not been material. Environmental costs often are recoverable under our contracts with the U.S. government. Based on information currently available and current U.S. government policies relating to cost recovery, we do not expect continued compliance with environmental regulations to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. For additional information relating to the impact of environmental matters, see Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 
    14 

AVAILABLE INFORMATION 
  We file reports and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These reports and information include an annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and proxy statements. Free copies of these items are made available on our website (www.generaldynamics.com) as soon as practicable and through the General Dynamics investor relations office at (703) 876-3583. 
  These items also can be read and copied at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room is available by calling the SEC at (800) SEC-0330. The SEC maintains a website (www.sec.gov) that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information. 
    
    ITEM 1A.   RISK FACTORS 
    
  An investment in our common stock or debt securities is subject to risks and uncertainties. Investors should consider the following factors, in addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before deciding whether to purchase our securities. 
    
  Investment risks can be market-wide as well as unique to a specific industry or company. The market risks faced by an investor in our stock are similar to the uncertainties faced by investors in a broad range of industries. There are some risks that apply more specifically to our business. 
    
  Our revenues are concentrated with the U.S. government. This customer relationship involves some specific risks. In addition, our sales to non-U.S. customers expose us to different financial and legal risks. Despite the varying nature of our U.S. and non-U.S. defense and business-aviation operations and the markets they serve, each group shares some common risks, such as the ongoing development of high-technology products and the price, availability and quality of commodities and subsystems. 
    
  The U.S. government provides a significant portion of our revenues.   Approximately 60 percent of our revenues are from the U.S. government. U.S. defense spending is driven by threats to national security. While the country has been under an elevated threat level for more than a decade, competing demands for federal funds are pressuring various areas of spending. Defense investment accounts (budgets for procurement and research and development) remain under pressure. Decreases in U.S. government defense spending, including investment accounts, or changes in spending allocation could result in one or more of our programs being reduced, delayed or terminated, which could impact our financial performance.  
    
  For additional information relating to the U.S. defense budget, see the Business Environment section of Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations in Item 7. 
    
  U.S. government contracts are not always fully funded at inception, and any funding is subject to disruption or delay.   Our U.S. government revenues are funded by agency budgets that operate on an October-to-September fiscal year. Early each calendar year, the President of the United States presents to the Congress the budget for the upcoming fiscal year. This budget proposes funding levels for every federal agency and is the result of months of policy and program reviews throughout the Executive branch. For the remainder of the year, the appropriations and authorization committees of the Congress review the President s budget proposals and establish the funding levels for the upcoming fiscal year. Once these levels are enacted into law, the Executive Office of the President administers the funds to the agencies. 
    
    15 

There are two primary risks associated with the U.S. government budget cycle. First, the annual process may be delayed or disrupted, which has occurred in recent years. For example, changes in congressional schedules due to elections or other legislative priorities, or negotiations for program funding levels can interrupt the process. If the annual budget is not approved by the beginning of the government fiscal year, portions of the U.S. government can shut down or operate under a continuing resolution that maintains spending at prior-year levels, which can impact funding for our programs and timing of new awards. Second, the Congress typically appropriates funds on a fiscal-year basis, even though contract performance may extend over many years. Future revenues under existing multi-year contracts are conditioned on the continuing availability of congressional appropriations. Changes in appropriations in subsequent years may impact the funding available for these programs. Delays or changes in funding can impact the timing of available funds or lead to changes in program content. 
    
  Our U.S. government contracts are subject to termination rights by the customer.   U.S. government contracts generally permit the government to terminate a contract, in whole or in part, for convenience. If a contract is terminated for convenience, a contractor usually is entitled to receive payments for its allowable costs and the proportionate share of fees or earnings for the work performed. The government may also terminate a contract for default in the event of a breach by the contractor. If a contract is terminated for default, the government in most cases pays only for the work it has accepted. The termination of multiple or large programs could have a material adverse effect on our future revenues and earnings. 
    
  Government contractors are subject to audit by the U.S. government.   Numerous U.S. government agencies routinely audit and review government contractors. These agencies review a contractor s performance under its contracts and compliance with applicable laws, regulations and standards. The U.S. government also reviews the adequacy of, and a contractor s compliance with, its internal control systems and policies, including the contractor s purchasing, property, estimating, material, earned value management and accounting systems. In some cases, audits may result in delayed payments or contractor costs not being reimbursed or subject to repayment. If an audit or investigation were to result in allegations against a contractor of improper or illegal activities, civil or criminal penalties and administrative sanctions could result, including termination of contracts, forfeiture of profits, suspension of payments, fines, and suspension or prohibition from doing business with the U.S. government. In addition, reputational harm could result if allegations of impropriety were made. In some cases, audits may result in disputes with the respective government agency that can result in negotiated settlements, arbitration or litigation.  
    
  Our Aerospace group is subject to changing customer demand for business aircraft.   The     business-jet market is driven by the demand for business-aviation products and services by business, individual and government customers in the United States and around the world. The Aerospace group s results also depend on other factors, including general economic conditions, the availability of credit and trends in capital goods markets. In addition, if customers default on existing contracts and the contracts are not replaced, the group s anticipated revenues and profitability could be reduced materially as a result. 
    
  Earnings and margins depend on our ability to perform on our contracts.   When agreeing to contractual terms, our management team makes assumptions and projections about future conditions and events. The accounting for our contracts and programs requires assumptions and estimates about these conditions and events. These projections and estimates assess: 

the productivity and availability of labor, 
                
    the complexity of the work to be performed, 
                
    the cost and availability of materials and components, and 
       16 

schedule requirements. 
     If there is a significant change in one or more of these circumstances, estimates or assumptions, or if the risks under our contracts are not managed adequately, the profitability of contracts could be adversely affected. This could affect earnings and margins materially. 
    
  Earnings and margins depend in part on subcontractor and vendor performance.   We rely on other companies to provide materials, components and subsystems for our products. Subcontractors also perform some of the services that we provide to our customers. We depend on these subcontractors and vendors to meet our contractual obligations in full compliance with customer requirements and applicable law. Misconduct by subcontractors, such as a failure to comply with procurement regulations or engaging in unauthorized activities, may harm our future revenues and earnings. We manage our supplier base carefully to avoid customer issues. However, we sometimes rely on only one or two sources of supply that, if disrupted, could have an adverse effect on our ability to meet our customer commitments. Our ability to perform our obligations may be materially adversely affected if one or more of these suppliers is unable to provide the agreed-upon supplies, perform the agreed-upon services in a timely and cost-effective manner or engages in misconduct or other improper activities. 
    
  Sales and operations outside the U.S. are subject to different risks that may be associated with doing business in foreign countries.   In some countries there is increased chance for economic, legal or political changes, and procurement procedures may be less robust or mature, which may complicate the contracting process. Our non-U.S. business may be sensitive to changes in a foreign government s budgets, leadership and national priorities. Non-U.S. transactions can involve increased financial and legal risks arising from foreign exchange-rate variability and differing legal systems. Our non-U.S. business is subject to U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including laws and regulations relating to import-export controls, technology transfers, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and certain other anti-corruption laws, and the International Traffic in Arms Regulations (ITAR). An unfavorable event or trend in any one or more of these factors or a failure to comply with U.S. or foreign laws could result in administrative, civil or criminal liabilities, including suspension or debarment from government contracts or suspension of our export privileges and could materially adversely affect revenues and earnings associated with our non-U.S. business.  
    
  In addition, some non-U.S. government customers require contractors to enter into letters of credit, performance or surety bonds, bank guarantees and other similar financial arrangements. We may also be required to agree to specific in-country purchases, manufacturing agreements or financial support arrangements, known as offsets, that require us to satisfy certain requirements or face penalties. Offset requirements may extend over several years and could require us to establish joint ventures with local companies. If we do not satisfy these financial or offset requirements, our future revenues and earnings may be materially adversely affected. 
    
  Our future success depends in part on our ability to develop new products and technologies and maintain a qualified workforce to meet the needs of our customers.   Many of the products and services we provide involve sophisticated technologies and engineering, with related complex manufacturing and system integration processes. Our customers  requirements change and evolve regularly. Accordingly, our future performance depends in part on our ability to continue to develop, manufacture and provide innovative products and services and bring those offerings to market quickly at cost-effective prices. Due to the highly specialized nature of our business, we must hire and retain the skilled and qualified personnel necessary to perform the services required by our customers. If we were unable to develop new products that meet  
    17 

customers  changing needs or successfully attract and retain qualified personnel, our future revenues and earnings may be materially adversely affected. 
    
  We have made and expect to continue to make investments, including acquisitions and joint ventures, that involve risks and uncertainties.   When evaluating potential mergers and acquisitions, we make judgments regarding the value of business opportunities, technologies and other assets and the risks and costs of potential liabilities based on information available to us at the time of the transaction. Whether we realize the anticipated benefits from these transactions depends on multiple factors, including our integration of the businesses involved, the performance of the underlying products, capabilities or technologies, market conditions following the acquisition and acquired liabilities, including some that may not have been identified prior to the acquisition. These factors could materially adversely affect our financial results. 
    
  Changes in business conditions may cause goodwill and other intangible assets to become impaired.   Goodwill represents the purchase price paid in excess of the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized and remains on our balance sheet indefinitely unless there is an impairment. Goodwill is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and when circumstances indicate that an impairment is more likely than not. Such circumstances include a significant adverse change in the business climate for one of our business groups or a decision to dispose of a business group or a significant portion of a business group. We face some uncertainty in our business environment due to a variety of challenges, including changes in defense spending. We may experience unforeseen circumstances that adversely affect the value of our goodwill or intangible assets and trigger an evaluation of the amount of the recorded goodwill and intangible assets. Future write-offs of goodwill or other intangible assets as a result of an impairment test or any accelerated amortization of other intangible assets could materially adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition.  
    
  Our business could be negatively impacted by cyber security events and other disruptions.   We face various cyber security threats, including threats to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to our proprietary or classified information, denial of service attacks, as well as threats to the physical security of our facilities and employees, and threats from terrorist acts. We also design and manage information technology systems for various customers. We generally face the same security threats for these systems as for our own. In addition, we face cyber threats from entities that may seek to target us through our customers, vendors and subcontractors. Accordingly, we maintain information security policies and procedures for managing all systems. We have experienced cyber security threats to our information technology infrastructure and attempts to gain access to our sensitive information, including viruses and attacks by hackers. Such prior events have not had a material impact on our financial condition, results of operations or liquidity. However, future threats could cause harm to our business and our reputation and challenge our eligibility for future work on sensitive or classified systems for U.S. government customers, as well as impact our results of operations materially. Our insurance coverage may not be adequate to cover all the costs related to cyber security attacks or disruptions resulting from such events. 

18 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that are based on management s expectations, estimates, projections and assumptions. Words such as  expects,   anticipates,   plans,   believes,   scheduled,   outlook,   estimates,   should  and variations of these words and similar expressions are intended to identify forward-looking statements. Examples include projections of revenues, earnings, operating margins, segment performance, cash flows, contract awards, aircraft production, deliveries and backlog. In making these statements we rely on assumptions and analyses based on our experience and perception of historical trends, current conditions and expected future developments as well as other factors we consider appropriate under the circumstances.  We believe our estimates and judgments are reasonable based on information available to us at the time. Forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, as amended. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve certain risks and uncertainties that are difficult to predict. Therefore, actual future results and trends may differ materially from what is forecast in forward-looking statements due to a variety of factors, including, without limitation, the risk factors discussed in this section. 
    
  All forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report or, in the case of any document incorporated by reference, the date of that document. All subsequent written and oral forward-looking statements attributable to General Dynamics or any person acting on our behalf are qualified by the cautionary statements in this section. We do not undertake any obligation to update or publicly release any revisions to forward-looking statements to reflect events, circumstances or changes in expectations after the date of this report. These factors may be revised or supplemented in subsequent reports on SEC Forms 10-Q and 8-K. 
    
    ITEM 1B.   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
    
  None. 
    
    ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES 
    
  We operate in a number of offices, manufacturing plants, laboratories, warehouses and other facilities in the United States and abroad. We believe our  facilities are adequate for our present needs and, given planned improvements and construction, expect them to remain adequate for the foreseeable future. 
    
  On   December 31, 2014  , our business groups had primary operations at the following locations: 
             
    Aerospace     Lincoln and Long Beach, California; West Palm Beach, Florida; Brunswick and Savannah, Georgia; Cahokia, Illinois; Bedford and Westfield, Massachusetts; Las Vegas, Nevada; Teterboro, New Jersey; Dallas and Houston, Texas; Appleton, Wisconsin; Sorocaba, Brazil; Beijing and Hong Kong, China; Dusseldorf, Germany; Mexicali, Mexico; Moscow, Russia; Singapore; Basel, Geneva and Zurich, Switzerland; Dubai, United Arab Emirates; Luton, United Kingdom. 
                
    Combat Systems     Anniston, Alabama; East Camden and Hampton, Arkansas; Crawfordsville, St. Petersburg and Tallahassee, Florida; Marion, Illinois; Saco, Maine; Westminster, Maryland; Shelby Township and Sterling Heights, Michigan; Joplin, Missouri; Lincoln, Nebraska; Roxboro, North Carolina; Lima and Springboro, Ohio; Eynon, Red Lion and Scranton, Pennsylvania; Edgefield and Ladson, South Carolina; Garland, Texas; Williston, Vermont; Marion, Virginia; Auburn, Washington;  
       19 

Vienna, Austria; Edmonton, London, La Gardeur, St. Augustin and Valleyfield, Canada; Kaiserslautern, Germany; Granada, Sevilla and Trubia, Spain; Kreuzlingen, Switzerland; Oakdale, United Kingdom. 
             
    Information Systems and Technology     Cullman, Alabama; Phoenix and Scottsdale, Arizona; San Diego and Santa Clara, California; Colorado Springs, Colorado; Lynn Haven and Orlando, Florida; Coralville, Iowa; Lawrence, Kansas; Annapolis Junction and Towson, Maryland; Needham, Pittsfield and Taunton, Massachusetts; Bloomington, Minnesota; Nashua, New Hampshire; Florham Park, New Jersey; Greensboro and Newton, North Carolina; Kilgore, Texas; Sandy, Utah; Arlington, Chantilly, Chesapeake, Fairfax, Herndon, Richmond and Springfield, Virginia; Calgary and Ottawa, Canada; Tallinn, Estonia; Oakdale, St. Leonards and Throckmorton, United Kingdom. 
                
    Marine Systems     San Diego, California; Groton and New London, Connecticut; Jacksonville, Florida; Bath and Brunswick, Maine; North Kingstown, Rhode Island; Norfolk, Virginia; Bremerton, Washington; Mexicali, Mexico. 
     A summary of floor space by business group on   December 31, 2014  , follows: 

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
    
  For information relating to legal proceedings, see Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 
    
    ITEM 4.   MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
    
  Not applicable. 
    
  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY 
  All of our executive officers are appointed annually. None of our executive officers was selected pursuant to any arrangement or understanding between the officer and any other person. The name, age, offices and positions of our executives held for at least the past five years as of   February 9, 2015  , were as follows: 

Name, Position and Office 
    Age 

Jason W. Aiken   Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since January 2014; Vice President of the company and Chief Financial Officer of Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, September 2011   December 2013; Vice President and Controller of the company, April 2010   August 2011; Staff Vice President, Accounting of the company, July 2006   March 2010 
    42 

20 

John P. Casey   Executive Vice President, Marine Systems, since May 2012; Vice President of the company and President of Electric Boat Corporation, October 2003   May 2012; Vice President of Electric Boat Corporation, October 1996   October 2003 
    60 

Larry R. Flynn   Vice President of the company and President of Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation since September 2011; Vice President of the company and Senior Vice President, Marketing and Sales of Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, July 2008   September 2011; President, Product Support of Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, May 2002   June 2008 
    62 

Gregory S. Gallopoulos   Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the company since January 2010; Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of the company, July 2008   January 2010; Managing Partner of Jenner   Block LLP, January 2005   June 2008 
    55 

Jeffrey S. Geiger   Vice President of the company and President of Electric Boat Corporation since November 2013; Vice President of the company and President of Bath Iron Works Corporation, April 2009   November 2013; Senior Vice President, Operations and Engineering of Bath Iron Works, March 2008   March 2009 
    53 

Robert W. Helm   Senior Vice President, Planning and Development of the company since May 2010; Vice President, Government Relations of Northrop Grumman Corporation, August 1989   April 2010 
    63 

S. Daniel Johnson   Executive Vice President, Information Systems and Technology, and President of General Dynamics Information Technology since January 2015; Vice President of the company and President of General Dynamics Information Technology, April 2008   December 2014; Executive Vice President of General Dynamics Information Technology, July 2006   March 2008 
    67 

Kimberly A. Kuryea   Vice President and Controller of the company since September 2011; Chief Financial Officer of General Dynamics Advanced Information Systems, November 2007   August 2011; Staff Vice President, Internal Audit of the company, March 2004   October 2007 
    47 

Joseph T. Lombardo   Executive Vice President, Aerospace, since April 2007; President of Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, April 2007   September 2011; Vice President of the company and Chief Operating Officer of Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation, May 2002   April 2007 
    67 

Christopher Marzilli   Vice President of the company and President of General Dynamics Mission Systems since January 2015; Vice President of the company and President of General Dynamics C4 Systems, January 2006   December 2014; Senior Vice President and Deputy General Manager of General Dynamics C4 Systems, November 2003   January 2006 
    55 

Phebe N. Novakovic   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the company since January 2013; President and Chief Operating Officer of the company, May 2012   December 2012; Executive Vice President, Marine Systems, May 2010   May 2012; Senior Vice President, Planning and Development of the company, July 2005   May 2010; Vice President, Strategic Planning of the company, October 2002   July 2005 
    57 

Walter M. Oliver   Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration of the company since March 2002; Vice President, Human Resources and Administration of the company, January 2001   March 2002 
    69 

Mark C. Roualet   Executive Vice President, Combat Systems, since March 2013; Vice President of the company and President of General Dynamics Land Systems, October 2008   March 2013; Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of General Dynamics Land Systems, July 2007   October 2008 
    56 

Gary L. Whited   Vice President of the company and President of General Dynamics Land Systems since March 2013; Senior Vice President of General Dynamics Land Systems, September 2011   March 2013; Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of General Dynamics Land Systems, June 2006   September 2011 
    54 

21 

PART II 
    
    ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE COMPANY S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange. 
  The high and low sales prices of our common stock and the cash dividends declared on our common stock for each quarter of   2013   and   2014   are included in the Supplementary Data contained in Item 8. 
  On February 1,   2015  , there were approximately   13,000   holders of record of our common stock. 
  For information regarding securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Note O to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in Item 8. 
  We did not make any unregistered sales of equity securities in   2014  . 
  The following table provides information about our fourth-quarter repurchases of equity securities that are registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended: 

* On   February 5, 2014  , the board of directors authorized management to repurchase   20 million   shares of common stock.  
  For additional information relating to our repurchases of common stock during the past three years, see Financial Condition, Liquidity and Capital Resources   Financing Activities   Share Repurchases contained in Item 7. 
  The following performance graph compares the cumulative total return to shareholders on our common stock, assuming reinvestment of dividends, with similar returns for the Standard   Poor s        500 Index and the Standard   Poor s        Aerospace   Defense Index, both of which include General Dynamics. 
    22 

Cumulative Total Return 
  Based on Investments of $100 Beginning December 31, 2009 
  (Assumes Reinvestment of Dividends) 
  
    23 

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
  The following table presents selected historical financial data derived from the Consolidated Financial Statements and other company information for each of the five years presented. This information should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Consolidated Financial Statements and the Notes thereto. 

Note: Prior period information has been restated to reflect our axle business in discontinued operations. 
           (a) 
    Return on sales is calculated as earnings (loss) from continuing operations divided by revenues. 
              (b) 
    2012 amounts exclude dilutive effect of stock options and restricted stock as it was antidilutive. 
              (c) 
    Debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as total debt divided by total equity as of year end. 
              (d) 
    Book value per share is calculated as total equity divided by total outstanding shares as of year end. 
              (e) 
    See Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for a reconciliation of net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow from operations. 
              (f) 
    See Item 7, Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, for the calculation of return on invested capital. 
       
    24 

(Dollars in millions, except per-share amounts or unless otherwise noted) 
  ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  For an overview of our business groups, including a discussion of products and services provided, see the Business discussion contained in Item 1. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8. The Consolidated Financial Statements have been restated to reflect the results of operations of our axle business in discontinued operations (for further discussion, see Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements). 
    
    BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 
  Approximately 60 percent of our revenues are from the U.S. government. Accordingly, our financial performance is impacted by U.S. government spending levels, particularly defense spending. Over the past several years, U.S. defense spending has been reduced, due in part to the country s fiscal shortfalls. Following required reductions mandated by the Budget Control Act of 2011 (BCA) and its related sequester mechanism, the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2013 (BBA) prescribed defense top-line funding for FY 2014 and 2015 at levels generally consistent with FY 2013. The BBA also included sequester reductions of approximately $30 billion in FY 2014 and $43 billion in FY 2015, less than the amounts imposed by the BCA.  
  In adherence to the BBA, Congress appropriated $497 billion in FY 2015 for the Department of Defense (DoD), including approximately $158 billion for procurement and research and development (R D) budgets, also known as investment accounts, relatively consistent with FY 2014. These investment accounts are the source of the majority of our U.S. government revenues.  
  The long-term outlook for our U.S. defense business is influenced by the relevance of our programs to the U.S. military s funding priorities, the diversity of our programs and customers, our insight into customer requirements stemming from our incumbency on core programs, our ability to evolve our products to address a fast-changing threat environment and our proven track record of successful contract execution.  
  We continue to pursue opportunities outside the U.S. presented by demand for military equipment and information technologies from our non-U.S. operations and through exports from our North American businesses. While the revenue potential can be significant, these opportunities are subject to changing budget priorities and overall spending pressures unique to each country. 
  In our Aerospace group, business-jet market conditions were strong in 2014. The group benefited from strong order interest for new aircraft across the group s range of customers and lower customer contract defaults. We expect our continued investment in the development of new aircraft products and technologies to support the Aerospace group s long-term growth. Similarly, we believe the aircraft services business will continue to be a strong source of revenues as the global business-jet fleet grows. 
  In navigating the current business environment, we continue to focus on improving operating earnings, expanding margins and the efficient conversion of earnings into cash through our emphasis on effective program execution and cost-reduction activities across the business.  
    25 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  INTRODUCTION 
   An understanding of our accounting practices is important to evaluate our operating results. We recognize the majority of our revenues using the percentage-of-completion method of accounting. The following paragraphs explain how this method is applied in recognizing revenues and operating costs in our Aerospace and defense groups. 
  In the Aerospace group, contracts for new aircraft have two major phases: the manufacture of the  green  aircraft and the aircraft s outfitting, which includes exterior painting and installation of customer-selected interiors. We record revenues on these contracts at the completion of these two phases: when green aircraft are delivered to and accepted by the customer, and when the customer accepts final delivery of the outfitted aircraft. We do not recognize revenue at green delivery unless (1) a contract has been executed with the customer and (2) the customer can be expected to satisfy its obligations under the contract, as evidenced by the receipt of significant deposits from the customer and other factors. Revenues associated with the group s completions of other original equipment manufacturers  (OEMs) aircraft and the group s services businesses are recognized as work progresses or upon delivery of services. Fluctuations in revenues from period to period result from the number and mix of new aircraft deliveries (green and outfitted), progress on aircraft completions and the level of aircraft service activity during the period. 
  The majority of the Aerospace group s operating costs relates to new aircraft production for firm orders and consists of labor, material, subcontractor and overhead costs. The costs are accumulated in production lots and recognized as operating costs at green aircraft delivery based on the estimated average unit cost in a production lot. While changes in the estimated average unit cost for a production lot impact the level of operating costs, the amount of operating costs reported in a given period is based largely on the number and type of aircraft delivered. Operating costs in the Aerospace group s completions and services businesses are generally recognized as incurred. 
  For new aircraft, operating earnings and margins are a function of the prices of our aircraft, our operational efficiency in manufacturing and outfitting the aircraft, and the mix of aircraft deliveries between the higher-margin large-cabin and lower-margin mid-cabin aircraft. Additional factors affecting the group s earnings and margins include the volume, mix and profitability of completions and services work performed, the market for pre-owned aircraft, and the level of general and administrative (G A) and net R D costs incurred by the group. 
  In the defense groups, revenue on long-term government contracts is recognized as work progresses, either as products are produced or services are rendered. As a result, variations in revenues are discussed generally in terms of volume, typically measured by the level of activity on individual contracts or programs. Year-over-year variances attributed to volume are due to changes in production or service levels and delivery schedules. 
  Operating costs for the defense groups consist of labor, material, subcontractor, overhead and G A costs and are recognized generally as incurred. Variances in costs recognized from period to period primarily reflect increases and decreases in production or activity levels on individual contracts and, therefore, result largely from the same factors that drive variances in revenues.  
  Operating earnings and margins in the defense groups are driven by changes in volume, performance or contract mix. Performance refers to changes in profitability based on revisions to estimates at completion on individual contracts. These revisions result from increases or decreases to the estimated value of the contract, the estimated costs to complete or both. Therefore, changes in costs incurred in the period compared  
    26 

with prior periods do not necessarily impact profitability. It is only when total estimated costs at completion on a given contract change without a corresponding change in the contract value that the profitability of that contract may be impacted. Contract mix refers to changes in the volume of higher- vs. lower-margin work. Additionally, higher or lower margins can be inherent in the contract type (e.g., fixed-price/cost-reimbursable) or type of work (e.g., development/production).  
  CONSOLIDATED OVERVIEW 
  REVIEW OF   2014   VS.   2013 

Our revenues were virtually flat in   2014   compared with   2013  . Decreased U.S. Army spending continued to affect somewhat our Information Systems and Technology and Combat Systems groups. This was essentially offset by higher Aerospace and Marine Systems revenues due to increased aircraft deliveries and higher ship construction activity, respectively. Operating costs and expenses decreased more than revenues in   2014  , resulting in increased operating earnings and margins. The decrease in operating costs and expenses in   2014   was due to improved performance in aircraft manufacturing and outfitting activities in the Aerospace group and significant cost reductions in the Information Systems and Technology group. The resulting consolidated operating margins of   12.6 percent   were up 70 basis points over   2013  , reflecting strong operating performance across all of our groups. 
  REVIEW OF   2013   VS.   2012 

While our revenues were essentially flat in   2013   compared with   2012  , operating earnings and margins increased significantly in   2013  . We experienced lower volume in our Combat Systems business as a result of decreased U.S. Army spending. This was largely offset by higher revenues in our Aerospace group from increased deliveries of G650 and G280 aircraft. Revenues increased slightly in our Marine Systems and Information Systems and Technology groups in   2013  . Operating costs were significantly lower in   2013   due to several discrete charges taken in   2012  , including a $2 billion goodwill impairment recorded in the Information Systems and Technology group. These charges are discussed in conjunction with our business groups  operating results. Even absent the charges taken in 2012, operating costs were down in 2013, the effect of cost-reduction efforts and cost savings associated with restructuring activities.  
    27 

REVIEW OF BUSINESS GROUPS 

Following is a discussion of the operating results and outlook for each of our business groups. For the Aerospace group, results are analyzed by specific lines of products and services, consistent with how the group is managed. For the defense groups, the discussion is based on the types of products and services each group offers with a supplemental discussion of specific contracts and programs when significant to the group s results. Additional information regarding our business groups can be found in Note Q to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8.  
  AEROSPACE 
  Review of   2014   vs.   2013    

The increase in the Aerospace group s revenues in   2014   consisted of the following:  

Aircraft manufacturing, outfitting and completions revenues increased in   2014   primarily due to additional deliveries of large-cabin aircraft. Aircraft services activity was higher in   2014   due to growth in the number of aircraft in service and the resulting increased demand for maintenance work. We experienced reduced aircraft trade-in activity in   2014   leading to lower pre-owned aircraft sales. We had three pre-owned aircraft sales in 2014 compared to 11 in   2013  . 
  The increase in the group s operating earnings in   2014   consisted of the following: 
    28 

Aircraft manufacturing, outfitting and completions earnings grew in   2014   due to the increase in aircraft deliveries, as well as improved operating performance on our large- and mid-cabin aircraft production. Partially offsetting this increase was higher net R D expenses associated with ongoing product-development efforts. As a result, the Aerospace group s operating margins increased   120   basis points in   2014  . 
  Review of   2013   vs.   2012 

The Aerospace group s revenues and earnings increased in   2013   primarily due to additional deliveries of G650 and G280 aircraft. Operating earnings also increased in   2013   due to a $191 impairment of Jet Aviation s maintenance business intangible asset in   2012     as the business experienced an increasingly competitive marketplace.  
  2015   Outlook 
  We expect an increase of approximately 8 percent in the group s revenues in   2015   compared with   2014   as a result of Gulfstream aircraft deliveries. Operating margins are expected to be around 18 percent, down somewhat from   2014   primarily due to higher net R D expenses, aircraft manufacturing mix and more pre-owned aircraft sales.  
  COMBAT SYSTEMS 
  Review of   2014   vs.   2013 

The change in the Combat Systems group s revenues in   2014   consisted of the following: 

29 

U.S. military vehicle revenues were down in   2014   consistent with our expectations as a result of a decrease in U.S. Army spending as the Iraqi and Afghan conflicts wound down. This impacted our primary U.S. vehicle programs, including Stryker, Abrams, Buffalo and Mine Resistant, Ambush Protected (MRAP) vehicles. Revenues also decreased on the completed Ground Combat Vehicle (GCV) design and development program. Weapons systems and munitions volume decreased in   2014   primarily due to lower tank ammunition production for non-U.S. customers.  
  Revenues for international military vehicles were up significantly in   2014   as work commenced on a $10 billion international order received in the first quarter. Work on this order was somewhat offset by lower revenues on several other international contracts that are nearing completion.  
  The Combat Systems group's operating margins decreased   60   basis points in   2014   primarily due to a mix shift from more mature programs nearing completion to the start up of new programs. Somewhat offsetting this shift in contract mix, operating margins were up in our European and weapons systems businesses as a result of reduced overhead costs following restructuring activities completed in 2013 and early 2014.  
  Review of   2013     vs.   2012 

In   2013  , revenues were down across the Combat Systems group. Decreased U.S. Army spending, in part due to sequestration and a government shutdown, impacted U.S. military vehicle programs, including Stryker, Abrams and MRAP, and weapons systems and munitions programs.  
  The Combat Systems group s operating earnings and margins increased significantly in   2013   despite the reduced revenues due to the negative impact of three discrete charges in   2012   in our European Land Systems business: 
             
    $292 for contract dispute accruals, primarily related to the termination of a contract to provide Pandur vehicles for Portugal ($169 of this amount was recorded as a reduction of revenues);  
                
    $98 of restructuring-related charges, primarily severance, for activities associated with eliminating excess capacity; and 
                
    $67   of out-of-period adjustments recorded in the   first   quarter of   2012   ($48 of this amount was recorded as a reduction of revenues). 
     These charges reduced the group s 2012 operating margins approximately 570 basis points. Operating earnings and margins increased in   2013   due to strong operating performance across our U.S. businesses and the favorable impact of cost savings associated with restructuring activities in our European military vehicles business. 
  2015   Outlook 
  We expect the Combat Systems group s revenues and margins in   2015   to be consistent with   2014   as growth on our international military vehicle contracts offsets some scheduled reductions in spending on a few U.S. military production programs. 
    30 

INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY 
  Review of   2014   vs.    2013 

The Information Systems and Technology group s revenues in   2014   were lower than   2013  , though higher than our initial expectations. The decrease from the prior year consisted of the following: 
                     Mobile communication systems 
    $ 
    (886 
    ) 
      Information technology (IT) solutions and mission support services 
    (185 
    ) 
      Intelligence, surveillance and reconnaissance (ISR) solutions 
    (38 
    ) 
      Total decrease 
    $ 
    (1,109 
    ) 

Revenues decreased nearly 25 percent in the mobile communication systems business in   2014   primarily as a result of lower U.S. Army spending on certain programs, including the Handheld, Manpack and Small Form Fit (HMS) radio, Warfighter Information Network-Tactical (WIN-T) and Common Hardware Systems-4 (CHS-4) programs. Revenues decreased in   2014   in our IT services business due to lower volume on several programs, including our commercial wireless work. This decrease was partially offset by increased contact-center services work under our contract with the Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services. Revenues were essentially flat in our ISR business. 
  Despite the revenue decline, the group's operating margins increased   90   basis points in   2014  , the result of solid operating performance and ongoing cost-reduction efforts across all our lines of business. As part of these efforts, we consolidated two businesses in the group effective in January of 2015 in an effort to be more efficient and responsive to our customers.  
  Review of   2013   vs.   2012 

The Information Systems and Technology group s revenues increased in   2013   compared with   2012   as higher volume in the mobile communication systems and IT services businesses was partially offset by decreased revenues in the ISR business. Revenues increased in   2013   in the mobile communication systems business due to higher volume on programs that received production awards in late 2012 or 2013, including WIN-T, HMS and CHS-4. In the IT services business, revenues were up as we worked to meet     commercial wireless customers  accelerated schedules and commenced work on the     contact-center services   contract discussed above. Revenues decreased in     2013     across the ISR business driven by lower U.S. defense spending and a slower-than-expected transition to related follow-on work. 
  The Information Systems and Technology group s operating earnings and margins increased in   2013   driven by the negative impact of four discrete charges in   2012  : 
    31 

$2 billion goodwill impairment resulting from slowed defense spending and the threat of sequestration, coupled with margin compression due to a shift in the group s contract mix impacting projected cash flows; 
                
    $110 of intangible asset impairments on several assets in our optical products business as a result of competitive losses and delays indicative of lower overall demand caused by the economic downturn; 
                
    $58 write-down of substantially all of the remaining ruggedized hardware inventory based on anticipated remaining demand for products that ceased production in 2012; and 
                
    $26 for cost growth associated with the demonstration phase of the U.K. Specialist Vehicle (SV) program. 
     Excluding these charges, operating margins decreased slightly in   2013   primarily due to growth in the lower-margin IT services business and performance challenges in the group s U.K. business. Management of the U.K. business was consolidated into our North American mobile communication systems business in 2013.  
  2015   Outlook 
  We expect   2015   revenues in the Information Systems and Technology group to decrease approximately 5.5 percent from   2014   as some of 2014 s anticipated revenue reduction flows into 2015. Operating margins are expected to improve again to slightly more than 9 percent.  
  MARINE SYSTEMS 
  Review of   2014     vs.     2013    

The increase in the Marine Systems group s revenues in   2014   consisted of the following: 

The group s U.S. Navy ship construction programs include Virginia-class submarines, DDG-1000 and DDG-51 destroyers, and Mobile Landing Platform (MLP) auxiliary support ships. The increase in  Navy ship construction revenues in 2014 is primarily due to higher volume on the Virginia-class program, including long-lead materials for the Block IV contract, which was awarded in the second quarter of   2014  . This increase was partially offset by lower volume on the MLP program, as two of the four ships under contract have been delivered. Revenues for Navy engineering, repair and other services decreased in   2014   primarily due to lower spending by the Navy on submarine-related overhaul and repair services. Commercial ship construction revenues increased in   2014   as work ramped up on the group's construction of Jones Act ships. All 10 commercial ships under contract are expected to be at various stages of construction by the end of 2015. 
  Operating margins decreased   30   basis points in   2014   primarily due to a shift in contract mix as work on the Block IV Virginia-class and Jones Act commercial ship contracts ramped up, volume decreased on  
    32 

mature contracts, including MLP and Blocks II and III of the Virginia-class program, and construction progressed on the first of the three DDG-1000 ships and two of the DDG-51 ships in the Navy s restart of the program.  
  Review of   2013   vs.   2012 

The Marine Systems group s revenues increased in   2013   compared with   2012   as lower ship construction revenues were offset by higher revenues from engineering and repair programs for the Navy and commercial ship construction. The decrease in 2013 construction revenues was due to the completion of the T-AKE combat-logistics ship program in late 2012. However, this decrease was partially offset by higher revenues on the Virginia-class program, primarily due to long-lead materials for the Block IV contract. Revenues were higher on Navy engineering and repair programs in   2013   due to increased submarine overhaul and repair work. Commercial ship construction revenues increased as work commenced on contracts for Jones Act ships secured in late 2012 and 2013. Operating earnings and margins decreased in   2013   due to the completion of the mature, higher-margin T-AKE program in 2012.  
  2015   Outlook 
  We expect the Marine Systems group s   2015   revenues to increase 2 to 2.5 percent from   2014  , primarily due to higher revenues on the Virginia-class program. Operating margins are expected to remain in the mid-9 percent range.  
  CORPORATE 
  Corporate results consist primarily of compensation expense for stock options. Corporate operating costs totaled   $72   in   2014  ,   $96   in   2013     and   $69   in   2012  . We expect Corporate operating costs in   2015   of approximately $65 to $70. 
    33 

OTHER INFORMATION 
  PRODUCT AND SERVICE REVENUES AND OPERATING COSTS 
  Review of   2014   vs.   2013 

The increase in product revenues in   2014   consisted of the following: 

Aircraft manufacturing and outfitting revenues increased in   2014   due to additional deliveries of large-cabin aircraft. Ship construction revenues increased due to higher volume on the Virginia-class submarine program and commercial Jones Act ships. Offsetting these increases, lower U.S. Army spending negatively impacted revenues from mobile communication products. Pre-owned aircraft sales were down as there were fewer aircraft trade-ins and resulting sales in 2014.  
  Despite the   2.4 percent   increase in product revenues, product operating costs rose only   1.8 percent   compared with   2013   due to strong operating performance. The majority of the change in product operating costs was due to volume, although costs in   2014   were affected by other changes, including higher net R D expenses in the Aerospace group associated with ongoing product-development efforts. No other changes were individually significant. 

The decrease in service revenues in   2014   consisted of the following: 
    34 

Military vehicle and mobile communication support services revenues were lower due to decreased U.S. Army spending, while IT services revenues decreased due to reduced commercial wireless work. 
  Service operating costs were lower in   2014   compared with   2013  . As shown below, the decrease in service operating costs was due to lower volume. No other changes were individually significant. 

Review of   2013   vs. 2012 

The decrease in product revenues in   2013   consisted of the following: 

In   2013  , military vehicle production revenues decreased on several programs, including the Stryker, Abrams and MRAP programs. Offsetting these decreases, aircraft manufacturing and outfitting revenues increased due to additional deliveries of the G650 and G280 aircraft.   
  Product operating costs were lower in   2013   compared with   2012  . Discrete charges totaling $289 in 2012 in the Combat Systems and Information Systems and Technology business groups included $110 of intangible asset impairments on several assets in our optical products business, $89 related to the termination of a contract to provide Pandur vehicles to the Portuguese government, $58 of ruggedized hardware inventory write-downs for products that ceased production in 2012, and $32 for cost growth associated  
    35 

with the demonstration phase of the SV program for the U.K. Ministry of Defence.  Excluding these charges, the decrease in product operating costs was primarily due to lower volume. No other changes were individually significant.  

The increase in service revenues in   2013   consisted of the following: 

Ship engineering and repair revenues increased in   2013   due to submarine overhaul and repair work.  
  Service operating costs were lower in   2013   compared with   2012  . While ship engineering and repair cost volume increased, this was offset by the intangible asset impairment in 2012 in Jet Aviation s maintenance business. No other changes were individually significant.  

GOODWILL IMPAIRMENT 
  In   2012  , we recorded a $2 billion goodwill impairment in the Information Systems and Technology group discussed in conjunction with the business group s operating results.   
  G A EXPENSES 
  As a percentage of revenues, G A expenses were   6.4 percent   in   2014  ,      6.6 percent   in   2013   and   7.2 percent   in   2012  . We expect G A expenses in   2015   to be generally consistent with   2014  . 
  INTEREST, NET 
  Net interest expense was   $86   in   2014   and   2013   and   $156   in   2012  . The decrease in interest expense in   2013   results from our debt refinancing completed in December 2012. See Note J to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding our debt obligations. We expect full-year   2015   net interest expense to be $82.  
    36 

OTHER, NET 
  In   2012  , other expenses included a   $123   loss on the redemption of debt associated with the refinancing discussed above.  
  PROVISION FOR INCOME TAX, NET 
  Our effective tax rate was   29.7 percent   in   2014  ,   31.2 percent   in   2013   and   180.5 percent   in   2012  . The decrease in the effective tax rate in   2014   was primarily due to increased income from international operations and utilization of foreign tax credits. The atypically high tax rate in 2012 was driven by the largely non-deductible goodwill impairment recorded in the Information Systems and Technology group and, to a lesser extent, the establishment of valuation allowances related to deferred tax assets in our non-U.S. operations. For further discussion and a reconciliation of our effective tax rate from the statutory federal rate, see Note E to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. We anticipate the full-year effective tax rate to be approximately   30.5 percent   in   2015  .  
  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS, NET OF TAX 
  In 2014, we entered into an agreement to sell our axle business in the Combat Systems group  and recognized a $146 loss, net of tax (the sale was completed in January 2015). In 2013, we recognized a $129 loss, net of tax, from the settlement of our litigation with the U.S. Navy related to the terminated A-12 contract in the company s discontinued tactical military aircraft business. See Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further discussion of these transactions.  
    
    BACKLOG AND ESTIMATED POTENTIAL CONTRACT VALUE 
  
  Our total backlog, including funded and unfunded portions, was   $72.4 billion   at the end of   2014  , nearly 60 percent higher than the prior-year amount of   $45.9 billion  . On   December 31, 2014  , our estimated potential contract value was   $26.7 billion   compared to   $27.6 billion   at the end of   2013  . Our total estimated contract value, which combines total backlog with estimated potential contract value, was   $99.1 billion   on   December 31, 2014  , our highest year-end balance ever. 
  Estimated potential contract value includes work awarded on unfunded indefinite delivery, indefinite quantity (IDIQ) contracts or unexercised options associated with existing firm contracts. IDIQ contracts provide customers with flexibility when they have not defined the exact timing and quantity of deliveries  
    37 

or services that will be required at the time the contract is executed. Contract options in our defense business represent agreements to perform additional work under existing contracts at the election of the customer. The actual amount of funding received in the future may be higher or lower than our estimate of potential contract value. We recognize options in backlog when the customer exercises the option and establishes a firm order.  
    
    AEROSPACE 
  
  Aerospace funded backlog represents aircraft orders for which we have definitive purchase contracts and deposits from customers. Unfunded backlog consists of agreements to provide future aircraft maintenance and support services. The Aerospace group ended   2014   with backlog of   $13.2 billion  , compared with   $13.9 billion   at year-end   2013  .  
  Orders were up more than 15 percent compared to 2013 and included strong demand across our product portfolio. Our backlog included orders for an all-new family of business jets introduced in 2014, the G500 and G600 aircraft, designed to optimize speed, cabin comfort, efficiency and industry-leading safety technologies. The aircraft are expected to enter into service in 2018 and 2019, respectively, following type certification from the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration and European Aviation Safety Agency.  
  Despite strong orders in 2014, the group s backlog has declined in recent years as G650 production has ramped up to fulfill the substantial orders we received upon introduction of the aircraft in 2008. We have approximately   three years   of backlog for the G650. We expect backlog to continue to decrease over the next several years as the time period between customer order and delivery of the G650 aircraft normalizes.   At that time, we expect order activity to more closely match deliveries.  
  Estimated potential contract value in the Aerospace group primarily represents options to purchase new aircraft and long-term agreements with fleet customers. Estimated potential contract value of $2.7 billion on December 31, 2014, increased more than 60 percent from $1.7 billion at year-end 2013. The increase is largely due to new multi-aircraft agreements in 2014 that include options for several Gulfstream aircraft models. 
  Demand for Gulfstream aircraft remains strong across customer types and geographic regions, generating orders from public and private companies, individuals and governments around the world.  
    38 

Geographically, non-U.S. customers represented approximately   60 percent   of the group s backlog on   December 31, 2014  . 
    
    DEFENSE GROUPS 
  The total backlog in our defense groups represents the estimated remaining sales value of work to be performed under firm contracts. The funded portion of this backlog includes items that have been authorized and appropriated by the Congress and funded by the customer, as well as commitments by non-U.S. customers that are similarly approved and funded by their governments. We have included in total backlog firm contracts at the amounts we believe are likely to receive funding but there is no guarantee that future budgets and appropriations will provide funding for a given program.  
  Total backlog in our defense groups was   $59.2 billion   on   December 31, 2014  , up more than 85 percent from   $31.9 billion   at the end of   2013   due to major awards received in 2014 in our Combat Systems and Marine Systems groups detailed below. Estimated potential contract value was $23.9 billion on December 31, 2014, compared to $25.9 billion at year-end 2013.  
  COMBAT SYSTEMS 
  
  Combat Systems  total backlog was   $19.8 billion   at the end of   2014  , tripling the year-end   2013   backlog of   $6.6 billion  . Growth in the group s backlog was primarily due to two major contract awards received in 2014, a $5.9 billion award from the U.K. Ministry of Defence to deliver Specialist Vehicle (SV) platforms to the British Army between 2017 and 2024, and a $10 billion award to provide wheeled armored vehicles, training and support services to an international customer through 2028. The wheeled vehicle contract also provides for an additional potential $3 billion of vehicles and services.  
  The Combat Systems group has several other significant non-U.S. military vehicle production contracts in backlog, including: 
             
    $515 for light armored vehicles (LAVs) for various international customers, including $230 for the upgrade and modernization of LAV III combat vehicles for the Canadian Army; 
                
    $130 for Pizarro Advanced Infantry Fighting Vehicles scheduled for delivery to the Spanish Army through 2018; and 
       39 

$110 for the production of Eagle vehicles for Germany and Duro vehicles for Switzerland. 
     The Army s Stryker wheeled combat vehicle program represented $780 of the group s backlog on   December 31, 2014  , with vehicles scheduled for delivery through 2016. The group received $460 of Stryker orders in 2014, including awards for double-V-hulled vehicles, contractor logistics support and engineering services. The group s backlog on   December 31, 2014  , included $540 for M1 Abrams main battle tank modernization and upgrade programs for the Army and U.S. allies around the world, including $105 for M1A2 tanks for the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. 
  The Combat Systems group s backlog on   December 31, 2014  , also included $2.2 billion for multiple weapons systems and munitions programs.  
  Combat Systems  estimated potential contract value was   $5.5 billion   on   December 31, 2014  , up more than   50 percent   since year-end   2013   primarily due to the international wheeled vehicle contract discussed previously. 
  INFORMATION SYSTEMS AND TECHNOLOGY 
  
  Unlike our other defense businesses, the Information Systems and Technology group s backlog consists of thousands of contracts and is reconstituted each year with new programs and task order awards. The group s total backlog was   $8.6 billion   at the end of   2014  , up slightly from   $8.5 billion   at year-end   2013  . This amount does not include   $16.1 billion   of estimated potential contract value associated with its anticipated share of IDIQ contracts and unexercised options. In 2014, funding under IDIQ contracts and options contributed nearly $4 billion to the group s orders. 
  The group received a number of significant contract awards in   2014  , including the following: 
               
    $645 to extend the period of performance for support on the Canadian Maritime Helicopter Project (MHP); 
                
    $210 for the U.K. s Bowman tactical communication system for long-term support and capability upgrades; 
                
    $335 from the Army for ruggedized computing equipment under the CHS-4 program. $655 of estimated potential contract value remains under this IDIQ contract; 
       40 

$165 from Austal USA for combat and seaframe control systems for two Littoral Combat Ships for the U.S. Navy, bringing the value in backlog to $350. Options to provide these naval control systems for two additional ships will be reported in backlog when they are exercised; and 
                
    $180 from the U.S. Department of State to provide supply chain management services.  
     Backlog at year-end 2014 also included the following key programs: 
             
    $495 for contact-center services for the Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services, including the 1-800-MEDICARE program;  
                
    $390 of support and modernization work for the intelligence community, the DoD and the Department of Homeland Security, including the St. Elizabeths campus, New Campus East and NETCENTS infrastructure programs; and 
                
    $305 for the WIN-T mobile communications network program. The group has an additional $380 of estimated potential contract value associated with this program awarded as an IDIQ contract. 
     MARINE SYSTEMS    
  
  The Marine Systems group s backlog consists of long-term submarine and ship construction programs, as well as numerous engineering and repair contracts. Backlog increased more than 80 percent from   $16.9 billion   at the end of   2013   to   $30.8 billion   on   December 31, 2014  .  
  The Virginia-class submarine program was the company s largest program in 2014 and the largest contract in the company s backlog. In   2014  , we received a contract for the construction of 10 submarines in Block IV of the program. The group s backlog at year end included $21 billion for 17 Virginia-class submarines scheduled for delivery through 2023.  
  Navy destroyer programs represented $4.6 billion of the group s backlog at year-end 2014. We currently have construction contracts for seven DDG-51 destroyers, including one awarded in 2014, scheduled for delivery through 2022. Backlog at year end also included three ships under the DDG-1000 program scheduled for delivery through   2019  . 
  The Marine Systems group s backlog on   December 31, 2014  , included $560 for construction of MLP ships. The group has delivered the first two ships in this program, and received a $500 award in 2014 for  
    41 

procurement of a fourth ship. Construction is underway on the two additional ships, scheduled for delivery in 2015 and 2018. The third and fourth ships are configured as Afloat Forward Staging Bases (AFSB).  
  The year-end backlog also included $880 for 10 liquefied natural gas (LNG)-powered and LNG-conversion-ready Jones Act ships for commercial customers scheduled for delivery through 2017.  
  Complementing these ship construction programs, engineering services represented approximately $2 billion of the Marine Systems group s backlog on   December 31, 2014  , including $1.4 billion for design and development efforts on the Ohio-class submarine replacement program. Additionally, year-end backlog for maintenance, repair and other services totaled $1.7 billion. 
    
    FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
  We place a strong emphasis on cash flow generation. This focus gives us the flexibility for capital deployment while preserving a strong balance sheet to position us for future opportunities. The   $9.4 billion   of cash generated by operating activities over the past three years was deployed to repurchase our common stock, pay dividends and fund capital expenditures. Our net cash position, defined as cash and equivalents and marketable securities less debt, was   $1 billion   at year-end   2014  , down   $415   from the end of   2013  . 
  Our cash balances are invested primarily in time deposits from highly rated banks and commercial paper rated A1/P1 or higher. On   December 31, 2014  ,   $1.9 billion   of our cash was held by non-U.S. operations. Should this cash be repatriated, it generally would be subject to U.S. federal income tax but would generate offsetting foreign tax credits. 

(a) 
    Debt-to-equity ratio is calculated as total debt divided by total equity. 
              (b) 
    Debt-to-capital ratio is calculated as total debt divided by the sum of total debt plus total equity. 
     We expect to continue to generate funds in excess of our short- and long-term liquidity needs. We believe we have adequate funds on hand and sufficient borrowing capacity to execute our financial and operating strategy. The following is a discussion of our major operating, investing and financing activities for each of the past three years, as classified on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows in Item 8. 
  OPERATING ACTIVITIES 
  We generated cash from operating activities of   $3.7 billion   in   2014  ,   $3.1 billion   in   2013     and     $2.6 billion   in   2012  . In all three years, the primary driver of cash flows was net earnings (loss) after removing the impact of non-cash charges. Operating cash flows in 2014 included significant customer deposits related to a large non-U.S. contract awarded in our Combat Systems group. As these deposits are utilized to fund supplier commitments on the program, we expect operating cash flows to be less. Operating cash flows in  
    42 

2013 benefited from reductions in operating working capital, primarily in our Marine Systems group where deposits were received for commercial ship orders.  
  INVESTING ACTIVITIES 
  We used   $1.1 billion   in   2014  ,   $363   in   2013     and     $642   in   2012   for investing activities. The primary uses of cash for investing activities were capital expenditures and purchases of marketable securities.  
  Capital Expenditures.   Capital expenditures were   $521   in   2014  ,   $436   in   2013   and   2012  . We expect capital expenditures of approximately   2 percent   of revenues in   2015  .  
  Marketable Securities.   In   2014  , we purchased $500 of short-term held-to-maturity securities. Other net purchases, sales and maturities of marketable securities in all three years were not material. 
  Other, Net.   Investing activities also include proceeds from the sale of assets and cash paid for business acquisitions. We completed one acquisition in 2014, no acquisitions in   2013   and seven acquisitions in   2012   for $444. We used cash on hand to fund these acquisitions. See Note B to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for further discussion of acquisition activity.   
  FINANCING ACTIVITIES 
  We used   $3.6 billion   in   2014  ,   $725   in   2013   and   $1.4 billion   in   2012   for financing activities. Our financing activities include repurchases of common stock, payment of dividends and debt issuances and repayments. Net cash from financing activities also included proceeds received from stock option exercises. 
  Share Repurchases.   We repurchased   29 million   of our outstanding shares in   2014   (11.4 million of the shares were repurchased under an accelerated share repurchase program),   9.4 million   shares in   2013   and   9.1 million   shares in   2012  . As a result, we have reduced our shares outstanding by approximately   7 percent   since the end of 2011. On   December 31, 2014  , 2.4 million shares remain authorized by our board of directors for repurchase, less than 1 percent of our total shares outstanding.  
  Dividends.   On   March 5, 2014  , our board of directors declared an increased quarterly dividend of   $0.62   per share, the   17  th consecutive annual increase. Previously, the board had increased the quarterly dividend to   $0.56   per share in   March 2013   and   $0.51   per share in   March 2012  . We did not pay any dividends in the first three months of 2013 because we made our first quarter dividend payment in December 2012. 
  Debt Proceeds, Net.   In   2012  , we issued $2.4 billion of fixed-rate notes and used the proceeds to redeem, prior to maturity, an equal amount of fixed-rate notes with higher interest rates.  
  In January 2015, we repaid $500 of fixed-rate notes on their scheduled maturity date with the proceeds from maturing marketable securities purchased in   2014   (see discussion above). We have no additional material repayments of long-term debt scheduled until 2016. See Note J to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for additional information regarding our debt obligations, including scheduled debt maturities and interest rates. 
  We ended   2014   with   no   commercial paper outstanding. We have   $2 billion   in bank credit facilities that remain available, including a   $1 billion   facility expiring in   July 2016   and a   $1 billion   facility expiring in   July 2018  . These facilities provide backup liquidity to our commercial paper program.  
    43 

NON-GAAP MANAGEMENT METRICS 
    
  We emphasize the efficient conversion of net earnings into cash and the deployment of that cash to maximize shareholder returns. As described below, we use free cash flow and return on invested capital (ROIC) to measure our performance in these areas. While we believe these metrics provide useful information, they are not defined operating measures under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), and there are limitations associated with their use. Our calculation of these metrics may not be completely comparable to similarly titled measures of other companies due to potential differences in the method of calculation. As a result, the use of these metrics should not be considered in isolation from, or as a substitute for, other GAAP measures.   
  Free Cash Flow.   We define free cash flow from operations as net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. We believe free cash flow from operations is a useful measure for shareholders because it portrays our ability to generate cash from our core businesses for purposes such as repaying maturing debt, funding business acquisitions, repurchasing our common stock and paying dividends. We use free cash flow from operations to assess the quality of our earnings and as a performance measure in evaluating management. The following table reconciles the free cash flow from operations with net cash provided by operating activities, as classified on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows: 

* Not meaningful (NM) due to net loss in 2012. 
  Return on Invested Capital.   We believe ROIC is a useful measure for shareholders because it reflects our ability to generate returns from the capital we have deployed in our operations. We use ROIC to evaluate investment decisions and as a performance measure in evaluating management. We define ROIC as net operating profit after taxes divided by average invested capital. Net operating profit after taxes is defined as earnings from continuing operations plus after-tax interest and amortization expense. Average invested capital is defined as the sum of the average debt and shareholders  equity for the year. ROIC excludes accumulated other comprehensive loss, goodwill impairments and non-economic accounting changes as they are not reflective of our operating performance. Prior-year amounts have been adjusted for comparative purposes to reflect our current definition.  
  ROIC is calculated as follows: 

*2012 loss from continuing operations of ($381) has been adjusted for $1,994 goodwill impairment and associated $199 tax benefit. 2012 shareholders  equity, a  component of average invested capital, has been similarly adjusted. 
    44 

ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION 
  OFF-BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS 
  On   December 31, 2014  , other than operating leases, we had no material off-balance sheet arrangements. 
  CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS 
  The following tables present information about our contractual obligations and commercial commitments on   December 31, 2014  : 

(a)  Includes scheduled interest payments. See Note J to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of long-term debt. 
  (b)  Includes amounts committed under legally enforceable agreements for goods and services with defined terms as to quantity, price and timing of delivery. This amount includes   $24.6 billion   of purchase obligations for products and services to be delivered under firm government contracts under which we expect full recourse under normal contract termination clauses. 
  (c)  Represents other long-term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets, including the current portion of these liabilities. The projected timing of cash flows associated with these obligations is based on management s estimates, which are based largely on historical experience. This amount also includes all liabilities under our defined-benefit retirement plans. See Note P to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for information regarding these liabilities and the plan assets available to satisfy them. 

* See Note N to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of letters of credit and aircraft trade-in options. 
    
  APPLICATION OF CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based on our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires that we make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, including most pervasively those related to various assumptions and projections for our long-term contracts and programs. Other significant estimates include those related to goodwill and other intangible assets, income taxes, pensions and other post-retirement benefits, workers  compensation, warranty obligations, and litigation and other contingencies. We employ judgment in making our estimates but they are based on historical experience, currently available information and various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. The results of these estimates form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results could differ from  
    45 

these estimates. We believe that our judgment is applied consistently and produces financial information that fairly depicts the results of operations for all periods presented. 
  We believe the following policies are critical and require the use of significant judgment in their application: 
  Revenue Recognition.   We account for revenues and earnings using the percentage-of-completion method. Under this method, contract revenue and profit are recognized as work progresses, either as products are produced or as services are rendered. We determine progress using either input measures (e.g., costs incurred) or output measures (e.g., contract milestones or units delivered), as appropriate to the circumstances. An input measure is used in most cases unless an output measure is identified that is reliably determinable and representative of progress  toward  completion.  We estimate the profit on a contract as the difference between the total estimated revenue and the total estimated costs of a contract and recognize that profit over the life of the contract. If at any time the estimate of contract profitability reveals an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified. 
  We generally measure progress toward completion on contracts in our defense businesses based on the proportion of costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion (input measure). For our contracts for the manufacture of business-jet aircraft, we record revenue at two contractual milestones: when green aircraft are delivered to and accepted by the customer and when the customer accepts final delivery of the fully outfitted aircraft (output measure). We do not recognize revenue at green delivery unless (1) a contract has been executed with the customer and (2) the customer can be expected to satisfy its obligations under the contract, as evidenced by the receipt of significant deposits from the customer and other factors. 
  Accounting for long-term contracts and programs involves the use of various techniques to estimate total contract revenues and costs. Contract estimates are based on various assumptions to project the outcome of future events that often span several years. These assumptions include labor productivity and availability; the complexity of the work to be performed; the cost and availability of materials; the performance of subcontractors; and the availability and timing of funding from the customer. We include in our contract estimates additional revenues for submitted contract modifications or claims against the customer when the amount can be estimated reliably and its realization is probable. In evaluating these criteria, we consider the contractual/legal basis for the claim, the cause of any additional costs incurred, the reasonableness of those costs and the objective evidence available to support the claim. We include award or incentive fees in the estimated contract value when there is a basis to reasonably estimate the amount of the fee. Estimates of award or incentive fees are based on historical award experience and anticipated performance. These estimates are based on our best judgment at the time. As a significant change in one or more of these estimates could affect the profitability of our contracts, we review our performance monthly and update our contract-related estimates at least annually and often quarterly, as well as when required by specific events and circumstances. 
  We recognize changes in the estimated profit on contracts under the reallocation method. Under this method, the impact of revisions in estimates is recognized prospectively over the remaining contract term. We use this method because we believe the majority of factors that typically result in changes in estimates on our long-term contracts affect the period in which the change is identified and future periods. These changes generally reflect our current expectations as to future performance and, therefore, the reallocation method is the method that best matches our profits to the periods in which they are earned. Most government contractors recognize the impact of a change in estimated profit immediately under the cumulative catch-up method. The impact on operating earnings in the period the change is identified is generally lower under the reallocation method as compared to the cumulative catch-up method. The net increase in our operating  
    46 

earnings (and on a per-share basis) from the impact of revisions in contract estimates totaled favorable changes in estimate of   $184   (  $0.35  ) in   2014  ,   $351   (  $0.65  ) in   2013   and   $180   (  $0.33  ) in   2012  . The   2013   impact of changes in estimate was higher as a result of numerous programs that neared completion in the Combat Systems group. No revisions on any one contract were material to our Consolidated Financial Statements in   2014  .  
  In the second quarter of 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. ASU 2014-09 prescribes a single, common revenue standard that replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP. The standard outlines a five-step model, whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within a contract are satisfied. The standard also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is effective in the first quarter of 2017. Early application is not permitted. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. We have not yet selected a transition method nor have we determined the effect of the standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  The required adoption of the ASU in 2017 will preclude our use of the reallocation method of recognizing revisions in estimated profit on contracts discussed above. As changes in estimated profit will be recognized in the period they are identified (cumulative catch-up method), rather than prospectively over the remaining contract term, we expect that the impact of revisions of contract estimates may be larger and potentially more variable from period to period. Anticipated losses on contracts will continue to be recognized in the quarter they are identified. 
  Goodwill and Intangible Assets.   Goodwill represents the purchase price paid in excess of the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired. Goodwill is not amortized but is subject to an impairment test on an annual basis and when circumstances indicate that an impairment is more likely than not. Such circumstances include a significant adverse change in the business climate for one of our reporting units or a decision to dispose of a reporting unit or a significant portion of a reporting unit. The test for goodwill impairment is a two-step process that requires a significant level of estimation and use of judgment by management, particularly the estimate of the fair value of our reporting units. We estimate the fair value of our reporting units primarily based on the discounted projected cash flows of the underlying operations. This requires numerous assumptions, including the timing of work embedded in our backlog, our performance and profitability under our contracts, our success in securing future business, the appropriate risk-adjusted interest rate used to discount the projected cash flows, and terminal value growth and earnings rates applied to the final year of  projected cash flows. Due to the variables inherent in our estimates of fair value, differences in assumptions may have a material effect on the result of our impairment analysis. To assess the reasonableness of our discounted projected cash flows, we compare the sum of our reporting units  fair value to our market capitalization and calculate an implied control premium (the excess of the sum of the reporting units  fair values over the market capitalization). We evaluate the reasonableness of this control premium by comparing it to control premiums for recent comparable market transactions.  
  We completed the required annual goodwill impairment test as of December 31,   2014  . The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the fair value of our reporting units to their carrying values. Our reporting units are consistent with our business groups. The estimated fair values for each of our reporting units were well in excess of their respective carrying values as of   December 31, 2014  . In our Information Systems and Technology reporting unit (for which we recorded a   $2 billion   goodwill impairment in   2012  ), this excess increased from   2013   as there was an improvement in the fair value and a decrease in the carrying value of the reporting unit.  
    47 

We review intangible assets subject to amortization for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Impairment losses, where identified, are determined as the excess of the carrying value over the estimated fair value of the long-lived asset. We assess the recoverability of the carrying value of assets held for use based on a review of projected undiscounted cash flows.  
  Commitments and Contingencies.   We are subject to litigation and other legal proceedings arising either from the ordinary course of our business or under provisions relating to the protection of the environment. Estimating liabilities and costs associated with these matters requires the use of judgment. We record a charge against earnings when a liability associated with claims or pending or threatened litigation is probable and when our exposure is reasonably estimable. The ultimate resolution of our exposure related to these matters may change as further facts and circumstances become known. 
  Deferred Contract Costs.   Certain costs incurred in the performance of our government contracts are recorded under GAAP but are not allocable currently to contracts. Such costs include a portion of our estimated workers  compensation obligations, other insurance-related assessments, pension and other post-retirement benefits, and environmental expenses. These costs will become allocable to contracts generally after they are paid. We have elected to defer (or inventory) these costs in contracts in process until they can be allocated to contracts. We expect to recover these costs through ongoing business, including existing backlog and probable follow-on contracts. We regularly assess the probability of recovery of these costs. This assessment requires that we make assumptions about future contract costs, the extent of cost recovery under our contracts and the amount of future contract activity. These estimates are based on our best judgment. If the backlog in the future does not support the continued deferral of these costs, the profitability of our remaining contracts could be adversely affected. 
  Retirement Plans.   Our defined-benefit pension and other post-retirement benefit costs and obligations depend on several assumptions and estimates. The key assumptions include interest rates used to discount estimated future liabilities and projected long-term rates of return on plan assets. We determine the discount rate used each year based on the rate of return currently available on a portfolio of high-quality fixed-income investments with a maturity that is consistent with the projected benefit payout period. We determine the long-term rate of return on assets based on consideration of historical and forward-looking returns and the current and expected asset allocation strategy.  
  In   2014  , we adopted updated mortality tables published by the Society of Actuaries that predict increasing life expectancies in the United States. Additionally, we updated several other assumptions to align them with historical experience, including rates of retirement and cost of living increases. The impact of these changes was a net increase of   $566   and   $28   in the benefit obligations of our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, respectively, on   December 31, 2014  .  
  These estimates are based on our best judgment, including consideration of current and future market conditions. In the event any of the assumptions change, pension and post-retirement benefit cost could increase or decrease. For further discussion, including the impact of hypothetical changes in the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, see Note P to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8. 
  As discussed under Deferred Contract Costs, our contractual arrangements with the U.S. government provide for the recovery of benefit costs for our government retirement plans. We have elected to defer recognition of the benefit costs that cannot currently be allocated to contracts to provide a better matching of revenues and expenses. Accordingly, the impact on the retirement benefit cost for these plans that results from annual changes in assumptions does not impact our earnings. 
    48 

ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
  We are exposed to market risk, primarily from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and investments. See Note M to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 for a discussion of these risks. The following discussion quantifies the market risk exposure arising from hypothetical changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. 
  Foreign Currency.   We had notional forward foreign exchange contracts outstanding of   $9.1 billion   on   December 31, 2014  , and   $1.7 billion   on   December 31, 2013  . The increase in 2014 is due to significant international contract awards. A   10 percent   unfavorable exchange rate movement in our portfolio of foreign currency forward contracts would have resulted in the following hypothetical, incremental pretax losses: 

This exchange-rate sensitivity relates primarily to changes in the U.S. dollar/Canadian dollar, euro/Canadian dollar and euro/British pound exchange rates. While the hypothetical pretax losses in the table above have increased significantly from 2013, we do not believe this represents a meaningful increase in our risk profile as these losses would continue to be offset by corresponding gains in the remeasurement of the underlying transactions being hedged. We believe these forward contracts and the offsetting underlying commitments, when taken together, do not create material market risk. 
  Interest Rate Risk.   Our financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include fixed-rate long-term debt obligations and variable-rate commercial paper. On   December 31, 2014  , we had   $3.9 billion   par value of fixed-rate debt and no commercial paper outstanding. Our fixed-rate debt obligations are not putable, and we do not trade these securities in the market. A   10 percent   unfavorable interest rate movement would not have a material impact on the fair value of our debt obligations. 
  Our investment policy allows for purchases of fixed-income securities with an investment-grade rating and a maximum maturity of up to   five years  . On   December 31, 2014  , we held   $4.4 billion   in cash and equivalents and   $500   of marketable securities reported in other current assets.  
    49 

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
    
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (LOSS)  

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 

50 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS) 

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 

51 

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 
    
    52 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS  

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 
    53 

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 

The accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements are an integral part of these statements. 
    
    54 

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
    
  (Dollars in millions, except per-share amounts or unless otherwise noted) 
    
    A. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
  Organization.   General Dynamics is organized into   four   business groups: Aerospace, which produces Gulfstream aircraft, provides aircraft services and performs aircraft completions for other original equipment manufacturers (OEMs); Combat Systems, which designs and manufactures combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions; Information Systems and Technology, which provides communications and information technology systems and solutions; and Marine Systems, which designs, constructs and repairs surface ships and submarines. Our primary customer is the U.S. government. We also do significant business with non-U.S. governments and a diverse base of corporate and individual buyers of business aircraft. 
  Basis of Consolidation and Classification.   The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of General Dynamics Corporation and our wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries. We eliminate all inter-company balances and transactions in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Consistent with defense industry practice, we classify assets and liabilities related to long-term contracts as current, even though some of these amounts may not be realized within one year. In addition, some prior-year amounts have been reclassified among financial statement accounts to conform to the current-year presentation. 
  Use of Estimates.   The nature of our business requires that we make a number of estimates and assumptions in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. We base our estimates on historical experience, currently available information and various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ from these estimates. 
  Revenue Recognition.   We account for revenues and earnings using the percentage-of-completion method. Under this method, contract costs and revenues are recognized as the work progresses, either as the products are produced or as services are rendered. We estimate the profit on a contract as the difference between the total estimated revenue and costs to complete a contract and recognize that profit over the life of the contract. If at any time the estimate of contract profitability indicates an anticipated loss on the contract, we recognize the loss in the quarter it is identified. 
  We generally measure progress toward completion on contracts in our defense business based on the proportion of costs incurred to date relative to total estimated costs at completion. For our contracts for the manufacture of business-jet aircraft, we record revenue at two contractual milestones: when green aircraft are delivered to and accepted by the customer and when the customer accepts final delivery of the fully outfitted aircraft. 
  We review and update our contract-related estimates regularly. We recognize changes in estimated profit on contracts under the reallocation method. Under the reallocation method, the impact of a revision in estimate is recognized prospectively over the remaining contract term. The net increase in our operating earnings (and on a per-share basis) from the impact of revisions in contract estimates totaled favorable changes of   $184   (  $0.35  ) in   2014  ,   $351   (  $0.65  ) in   2013   and   $180   (  $0.33  ) in   2012  . The   2013   impact of changes in estimate was higher as a result of numerous programs that neared completion in the Combat Systems group. No revisions on any one contract were material to our Consolidated Financial Statements in   2014  .  
    55 

In the second quarter of 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09, Revenue from Contracts with Customers. ASU 2014-09 prescribes a single, common revenue standard that replaces most existing revenue recognition guidance in GAAP. The standard outlines a five-step model, whereby revenue is recognized as performance obligations within a contract are satisfied. The standard also requires new, expanded disclosures regarding revenue recognition. ASU 2014-09 is effective in the first quarter of 2017. Early application is not permitted. The standard permits the use of either the retrospective or cumulative effect transition method. We have not yet selected a transition method nor have we determined the effect of the standard on our Consolidated Financial Statements.   
  The required adoption of the ASU in 2017 will preclude our use of the reallocation method of recognizing revisions in estimated profit on contracts discussed previously. As changes in estimated profit will be recognized in the period they are identified (cumulative catch-up method), rather than prospectively over the remaining contract term, we expect that the impact of revisions of contract estimates may be larger and potentially more variable from period to period. Anticipated losses on contracts will continue to be recognized in the quarter they are identified. 
  Discontinued Operations.   In   2014  , we entered into an agreement to sell our axle business in the Combat Systems group and recognized a   $146   loss, net of tax (the sale was completed in January 2015). The financial statements have been restated to reflect the results of operations of this business in discontinued operations with the revenues of the business eliminated, and the net loss reported separately below earnings from continuing operations. 
  In 2013, we recognized a   $129   loss, net of tax, from the settlement of our litigation with the U.S. Navy related to the terminated A-12 contract in the company s discontinued tactical military aircraft business. Under the terms of the settlement agreement, the Navy received a   $198   credit that will be utilized over several years as we render design and construction services on the DDG-1000 program. Net cash from discontinued operations on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows primarily represents activity associated with the A-12 settlement and related work on the DDG-1000 program.  
  Research and Development Expenses.   Company-sponsored research and development (R D) expenses, including product development costs, were   $358   in   2014  ,   $310   in   2013   and   $374   in   2012  . R D expenses are included in operating costs and expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) in the period in which they are incurred. Customer-sponsored R D expenses are charged directly to the related contracts. 
  The Aerospace group has cost-sharing arrangements with some of its suppliers that enhance the group s internal development capabilities and offset a portion of the financial cost associated with the group s product development efforts. These arrangements explicitly state that supplier contributions are for reimbursements of costs we incur in the development of new aircraft models and technologies, and we retain substantial rights in the products developed under these arrangements. We record amounts received from these cost-sharing arrangements as a reduction of R D expenses. We have no obligation to refund any amounts received under the agreements regardless of the outcome of the development efforts. Under the typical terms of an agreement, payments received from suppliers for their share of the costs are based on milestones and are recognized as received. 
    56 

Interest, Net.   Net interest expense consisted of the following: 

Cash and Equivalents and Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.   We consider securities with a maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Our investments in other securities (see Note D) are included in other current and noncurrent assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We report our held-to-maturity securities at amortized cost. We report our available-for-sale securities at fair value. Changes in the fair value of available-for-sale securities are recognized as a component of other comprehensive income (loss) in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss). We had   no   trading securities on   December 31, 2014   or   2013  . 
  Net (purchases) proceeds of other securities were   ($497)   in   2014  , including the purchase of   $500   of held-to-maturity securities,   ($22)   in   2013   and   $219   in   2012  . Net proceeds in   2012   include   $224   and   $211   of maturities and sales of held-to-maturity securities, respectively, included in other investing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
  Long-lived Assets and Goodwill.   We review long-lived assets, including intangible assets subject to amortization, for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. We assess the recoverability of the carrying value of assets held for use based on a review of undiscounted projected cash flows. Impairment losses, where identified, are measured as the excess of the carrying value of the long-lived asset over its fair value as determined by discounted projected cash flows.  
  We review goodwill for impairment annually or when circumstances indicate that an impairment is more likely than not. Goodwill represents the purchase price paid in excess of the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired. The test for goodwill impairment is a two-step process to first identify potential goodwill impairment for each reporting unit and then, if necessary, measure the amount of the impairment loss. Our reporting units are consistent with our business groups in Note Q. For a summary of our goodwill by reporting unit, see Note B.  
  Subsequent Events.   In January 2015, we repaid   $500   of fixed-rate notes on their scheduled maturity date with the proceeds from maturing marketable securities. 
  We have evaluated other material events and transactions that have occurred after   December 31, 2014  , and concluded that none have occurred that require an adjustment to or disclosure in the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
    B. ACQUISITIONS, GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS 
  Acquisitions  
  In   2014  , we acquired a provider of mission-critical IT and networking support in our Information Systems and Technology group.  We did not acquire any businesses in   2013  .  In   2012  , we acquired   seven   businesses across our business groups for a total of   $444  . These amounts are included in other investing activities on the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.   
  The operating results of these acquisitions have been included with our reported results since their respective closing dates. The purchase prices of these acquisitions have been allocated to the estimated fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired, with any excess purchase price recorded as goodwill. 
    57 

Goodwill 
  The changes in the carrying amount of goodwill by reporting unit were as follows: 

(a)  Goodwill on December 31, 2012, in the Information Systems and Technology reporting unit is net of   $1,994   of accumulated impairment losses. 
  (b)  Includes adjustments during the purchase price allocation period. 
  (c)  Consists primarily of adjustments for foreign currency translation. 
  We completed the required annual goodwill impairment test as of   December 31, 2014  . The first step of the goodwill impairment test compares the fair values of our reporting units to their carrying values. We estimate the fair values of our reporting units primarily based on the discounted projected cash flows of the underlying operations. The estimated fair values for each of our reporting units were well in excess of their respective carrying values as of   December 31, 2014  . In our Information Systems and Technology reporting unit (for which we recorded a   $2 billion   goodwill impairment in   2012   discussed in the paragraph below), this excess increased from   2013   as there was an improvement in the fair value and a decrease in the carrying value of the reporting unit.  
  In   2012  , we recorded a   $2 billion   goodwill impairment in the Information Systems and Technology reporting unit. Revenue pressure from slowed defense spending and the threat of sequestration and margin compression due to mix shift impacted operating results and tempered the projected cash flows of the reporting unit, which negatively impacted our estimate of its fair value. Prior to   December 31, 2012  , we had no accumulated impairment losses. 
  Intangible Assets 
  Intangible assets consisted of the following: 

* Consists of acquired backlog and probable follow-on work and associated customer relationships. 
  The decrease in the gross carrying amount and accumulated amortization of contract and program intangible assets from December 31, 2013, to   December 31, 2014  , is primarily due to the write-off of fully amortized assets in the Information Systems and Technology group.  
    58 

We did not recognize any impairments of our intangible assets in   2014   or   2013  . In 2012, we recognized impairments in our Aerospace and Information Systems and Technology groups of   $191   and   $110  , respectively, on contract and program, and related technology intangible assets for substantially all of their remaining values. These losses were reported in operating costs and expenses in the respective segments.  
  The amortization lives (in years) of our intangible assets on   December 31, 2014  , were as follows: 

Range of 

Amortization Life 
      Contract and program intangible assets 
      
    7-30 
      Trade names and trademarks 
      
    30 
      Technology and software 
      
    7-15 
      Other intangible assets 
      
    5 

Amortization expense was   $121   in   2014  ,   $143   in   2013   and   $214   in   2012  . We expect to record annual amortization expense over the next five years as follows: 

C. EARNINGS PER SHARE 
  We compute basic earnings per share (EPS) using net earnings for the period and the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Basic weighted average shares outstanding have decreased throughout   2014   and   2013   due to share repurchases. See Note L for additional details of our share repurchases. Diluted EPS incorporates the additional shares issuable upon the assumed exercise of stock options and the release of restricted shares and restricted stock units (RSUs).  
  Basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding were as follows (in thousands): 

* Excludes the following outstanding options to purchase shares of common stock because these options had exercise prices in excess of the average market price of our common stock during the year and therefore the effect of including these options would be antidilutive:   2014   -   3,683  ; 2013 -   8,246   and 2012 -   23,672  . Additionally, because of the net loss in 2012,   2,353   otherwise dilutive stock options and restricted stock/RSUs were not included in the calculation of diluted EPS. The inclusion of these dilutive stock options and restricted stock/RSUs would have improved the diluted loss per share. For this reason, diluted EPS in 2012 was calculated using the same number of weighted average shares as basic EPS. 
    59 

D. FAIR VALUE  
  Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market in an orderly transaction between marketplace participants. Various valuation approaches can be used to determine fair value, each requiring different valuation inputs. The following hierarchy classifies the inputs used to determine fair value into three levels: 
             
    Level 1   quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities; 
                
    Level 2   inputs, other than quoted prices, observable by a marketplace participant either directly or indirectly; and  
                
    Level 3   unobservable inputs significant to the fair value measurement. 
     We did not have any significant non-financial assets or liabilities measured at fair value on   December 31, 2014   or   2013  , except for the assets of our axle business that are classified as held for sale on   December 31, 2014   and were measured at fair value using Level 3 inputs. See Note A for further discussion.  
  Our financial instruments include cash and equivalents, marketable securities and other investments; accounts receivable and accounts payable; short- and long-term debt; and derivative financial instruments. The carrying values of cash and equivalents, accounts receivable and payable and short-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheets approximate their fair value. The following table presents the fair values of our other financial assets and liabilities on   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , and the basis for determining their fair values: 

(a)  Determined under a market approach using valuation models that incorporate observable inputs such as interest rates, bond yields and quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities. 
  (b)  We had no Level 3 financial instruments on   December 31, 2014   or   2013  . 
    
    E. INCOME TAXES 
  Income Tax Provision.   We calculate our provision for federal, state and international income taxes based on current tax law. The reported tax provision differs from the amounts currently receivable or payable because some income and expense items are recognized in different time periods for financial reporting than for income tax purposes. The following is a summary of our net provision for income taxes for continuing operations: 
    60 

State and local income taxes allocable to U.S. government contracts are included in operating costs and expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) and, therefore, not included in the provision above. 
  The reconciliation from the statutory federal income tax rate to our effective income tax rate follows: 

The decrease in the effective tax rate in   2014   was primarily due to increased income from non-U.S. operations that is taxed at lower rates and utilization of foreign tax credits. Our   2012   effective tax rate was unfavorably impacted by the non-deductible nature of a substantial portion of our goodwill, for which there was a limited tax benefit recognized on the impairment. In addition, due to the unfavorable market conditions impacting certain of our international subsidiaries, a valuation allowance was established for their net deferred tax assets, including the operating losses resulting from the charges at our European Land Systems business in   2012  . 
  Net Deferred Tax Assets.   The tax effects of temporary differences between reported earnings and taxable income consisted of the following: 
    
    61 

Our net deferred tax asset was included on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in other assets and liabilities as follows: 

We believe it is more likely than not that we will generate sufficient taxable income in future periods to realize our deferred tax assets, subject to the valuation allowances recognized. 
  Our retirement benefits deferred tax amount includes a deferred tax asset of   $1.8 billion   on   December 31, 2014  , and   $1.2 billion   on   December 31, 2013  , related to the amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss to recognize the funded status of our retirement plans. See Notes L and P for further discussion.  
  One of our deferred tax liabilities results from our participation in the Capital Construction Fund (CCF), a program established by the U.S. government and administered by the Maritime Administration that supports the acquisition, construction, reconstruction or operation of U.S. flag merchant marine vessels. The program allows us to defer federal and state income taxes on earnings derived from eligible programs as long as the proceeds are deposited in the fund and withdrawals are used for qualified activities. We had U.S. government accounts receivable pledged (and thereby deposited) to the CCF of   $100   on   December 31, 2014  ,   and     $459   on   December 31, 2013  . The decrease in the fund in   2014   was due to qualified withdrawals to build ships, the proceeds from the sale of which we expect to re-deposit into the fund.   
  On   December 31, 2014  , we had net operating loss carryforwards of   $1.2 billion   that begin to expire in 2017 and tax credit carryforwards of   $215   that begin to expire in 2015. 
    62 

Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes included non-U.S. income (loss) of   $507   in   2014  ,   $361   in   2013   and (  $215  ) in   2012  . We intend to reinvest indefinitely the undistributed earnings of some of our non-U.S. subsidiaries. On   December 31, 2014  , we had approximately   $1.9 billion   of undistributed earnings from these non-U.S. subsidiaries. In general, should these earnings be distributed, a portion would be treated as dividends under U.S. tax law and thus subject to U.S. federal corporate income tax at the statutory rate of   35 percent  , but would generate offsetting foreign tax credits.  
  Tax Uncertainties.   For all periods open to examination by tax authorities, we periodically assess our liabilities and contingencies based on the latest available information. Where we believe there is more than a   50 percent   chance that our tax position will not be sustained, we record our best estimate of the resulting tax liability, including interest, in the Consolidated Financial Statements. We include any interest or penalties incurred in connection with income taxes as part of income tax expense.  
  We believe we are entitled to interest under the Internal Revenue Code resulting from the completion of the A-12 contract triggered by the settlement of the associated litigation.  The interest would be recognized when the amount is determined to be realizable, likely upon finalization of our 2014 consolidated federal corporate income tax return. See Note A to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the A-12 settlement. 
  We participate in the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) Compliance Assurance Process, a real-time audit of our consolidated federal corporate income tax return. The IRS has examined our consolidated federal income tax returns through   2013  . We do not expect the resolution of tax matters for open years to have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition, cash flows or effective tax rate. 
  Based on all known facts and circumstances and current tax law, we believe the total amount of any unrecognized tax benefits on   December 31, 2014  , is not material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows, and if recognized, would not have a material impact on our effective tax rate. In addition, there are   no   tax positions for which it is reasonably possible that the unrecognized tax benefits will significantly vary over the next 12 months, producing, individually or in the aggregate, a material effect on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 
    
    F. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE 
  Accounts receivable represent amounts billed and currently due from customers and consisted of the following: 

Receivables from non-U.S. government customers include amounts related to long-term production programs for the Spanish Ministry of Defence of   $2.3 billion   on   December 31, 2014  . A different ministry, the Spanish Ministry of Industry, has funded work on these programs in advance of costs incurred by the company. The cash advances are reported on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in current customer advances and deposits and will be repaid to the Ministry of Industry as we collect on the outstanding receivables from the Ministry of Defence.  The net amount for these programs on   December 31, 2014  , is an advance payment of   $21  . With respect to our other receivables, we expect to collect substantially all of the   December 31, 2014  , balance during   2015  . 
    
    63 

G. CONTRACTS IN PROCESS 
  Contracts in process represent recoverable costs and, where applicable, accrued profit related to long-term contracts that have been inventoried until the customer is billed, and consisted of the following: 

Contract costs consist primarily of labor, material, overhead and G A expenses. Contract costs also may include estimated contract recoveries for matters such as contract changes and claims for unanticipated contract costs. We record revenue associated with these matters only when the amount of recovery can be estimated reliably and realization is probable. Assumed recoveries for claims included in contracts in process were not material on   December 31, 2014   or   2013  .  
  Other contract costs represent amounts that are not currently allocable to government contracts, such as a portion of our estimated workers  compensation obligations, other insurance-related assessments, pension and other post-retirement benefits and environmental expenses. These costs will become allocable to contracts generally after they are paid. We expect to recover these costs through ongoing business, including existing backlog and probable follow-on contracts. If the backlog in the future does not support the continued deferral of these costs, the profitability of our remaining contracts could be adversely affected.   
  Excluding our other contract costs, we expect to bill all but approximately   15 percent   of our year-end   2014   contracts-in-process balance during   2015  . Of the amount not expected to be billed in   2015  , approximately   $220   relates to a single contract, the Canadian Maritime Helicopter Project (MHP). In   2014  , the contract was renegotiated, extending the period of performance. The MHP-related balance declined by   $80   during   2014  .  
    
    H.     INVENTORIES 
  Our inventories represent primarily business-jet components and are stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Work in process represents largely labor, material and overhead costs associated with aircraft in the manufacturing process and is primarily based on the estimated average unit cost of the units in a production lot. Raw materials are valued primarily on the first-in, first-out method. We record pre-owned aircraft acquired in connection with the sale of new aircraft at the lower of the trade-in value or the estimated net realizable value.  
  Inventories consisted of the following: 

64 

I. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET 
  Property, plant and equipment (PP E) is carried at historical cost, net of accumulated depreciation. The major classes of PP E were as follows: 

We depreciate most of our assets using the straight-line method and the remainder using accelerated methods. Buildings and improvements are depreciated over periods of up to   50 years  . Machinery and equipment are depreciated over periods of up to   30 years  . Our government customers provide certain facilities for our use that are not included above. 

J. DEBT 
  Debt consisted of the following: 

Our fixed-rate notes are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by several of our   100  -percent-owned subsidiaries (see Note R for condensed consolidating financial statements). We have the option to redeem the notes prior to their maturity in whole or part for the principal plus any accrued but unpaid interest and applicable make-whole amounts.  
    
  The aggregate amounts of scheduled maturities of our debt for the next five years are as follows: 
    65 

On December 31, 2014, we had no commercial paper outstanding, but we maintain the ability to access the commercial paper market in the future. We have   $2 billion   in committed bank credit facilities that provide backup liquidity to our commercial paper program. These credit facilities include a   $1 billion   multi-year facility expiring in   July 2016   and a   $1 billion   multi-year facility expiring in   July 2018  . These facilities are required by rating agencies to support our commercial paper issuances. We may renew or replace, in whole or part, these credit facilities at or prior to their expiration dates. Our commercial paper issuances and the bank credit facilities are guaranteed by several of our   100  -percent-owned subsidiaries. In addition, we have approximately   $130   in committed bank credit facilities to provide backup liquidity to our European businesses. 
  Our financing arrangements contain a number of customary covenants and restrictions. We were in compliance with all material covenants on   December 31, 2014  . 
    
    K. OTHER LIABILITIES 
  A summary of significant other liabilities by balance sheet caption follows: 

(a)  Consists primarily of dividends payable, taxes payable, environmental remediation reserves, warranty reserves, liabilities of discontinued operations and insurance-related costs. 
  (b)  Consists primarily of liabilities for warranty reserves and workers  compensation and liabilities of discontinued operations. 
    
    L. SHAREHOLDERS  EQUITY 
  Authorized Stock.   Our authorized capital stock consists of   500 million   shares of   $1   per share par value common stock and   50 million   shares of   $1   per share par value preferred stock. The preferred stock is  
    66 

issuable in series, with the rights, preferences and limitations of each series to be determined by our board of directors. 
  Shares Issued and Outstanding.   On   December 31, 2014  , we had   481,880,634   shares of common stock issued and   332,164,097   shares of common stock outstanding, including unvested restricted stock of   1,721,938   shares. On   December 31, 2013  , we had   481,880,634   shares of common stock issued and   353,402,794   shares of common stock outstanding.   No   shares of our preferred stock were outstanding on either date. The only changes in our shares outstanding during   2014   resulted from shares repurchased in the open market and share activity under our equity compensation plans (see Note O for further discussion).  
  Share Repurchases.   In   2014  , we repurchased   29 million   of our outstanding shares. Of this amount,   11.4 million   shares were repurchased on January 24, 2014, for   $1.4 billion   under an accelerated share repurchase (ASR) program facilitated through a financial institution. On   February 5, 2014  , with shares from the prior authorization largely exhausted by the ASR program, the board of directors authorized management to repurchase   20 million   additional shares of common stock on the open market. Subsequently, we repurchased an additional   17.6 million   shares for approximately   $2 billion  . On   December 31, 2014  ,   2.4 million   shares remained authorized by our board of directors for repurchase, less than   1 percent   of our total shares outstanding.  
  Dividends per Share.   Dividends declared per share were   $2.48   in   2014  ,   $2.24   in   2013   and   $2.04   in   2012  . Cash dividends paid were   $822   in   2014  ,   $591   in   2013     and     $893   in   2012  . In advance of possible tax increases in   2013  , we accelerated our first-quarter   2013   dividend payment to December 2012. 
  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss.   The changes, pretax and net of tax, in each component of accumulated other comprehensive loss (AOCL) consisted of the following: 

Amounts reclassified out of AOCL related primarily to changes in retirement plans' funded status and included pretax recognized net actuarial losses of   $329   and   $435   for the years ended   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively.  This was partially offset by pretax amortization of prior service credit of   $69   and   $60   for the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013, respectively. These AOCL components are included in our net periodic pension and other post-retirement benefit cost. See Note P for additional details. 
    
    67 

M. DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES 
  We are exposed to market risk, primarily from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates, commodity prices and investments. We may use derivative financial instruments to hedge some of these risks as described below. We do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. 
  Foreign Currency Risk and Hedging Activities.   Our foreign currency exchange rate risk relates to receipts from customers, payments to suppliers and inter-company transactions denominated in foreign currencies. To the extent possible, we include terms in our contracts that are designed to protect us from this risk. Otherwise, we enter into derivative financial instruments, principally foreign currency forward purchase and sale contracts, designed to offset and minimize our risk. The   two  -year average maturity of these instruments matches the duration of the activities that are at risk.  
  We had   $9.1 billion   in notional forward exchange contracts outstanding on   December 31, 2014  ,   and     $1.7 billion   on   December 31, 2013  . The increase in 2014 is due to significant international contract awards. We recognize derivative financial instruments on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value (see Note D).  
  We record changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments in operating costs and expenses in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) or in other comprehensive loss (OCL) within the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) depending on whether the derivative is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting. Gains and losses related to derivatives that qualify as cash flow hedges are deferred in OCL until the underlying transaction is reflected in earnings. We adjust derivative financial instruments not designated as cash flow hedges to market value each period and record the gain or loss in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss). The gains and losses on these instruments generally offset losses and gains on the assets, liabilities and other transactions being hedged. Gains and losses resulting from hedge ineffectiveness are recognized in the Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) for all derivative financial instruments, regardless of designation. 
  Net gains and losses recognized in earnings, including gains and losses related to hedge ineffectiveness, were not material to our results of operations in any of the past three years. Net gains and losses reclassified to earnings from OCL were not material to our results of operations in any of the past three years, and we do not expect the amount of these gains and losses that will be reclassified to earnings in   2015   to be material. 
  We had no material derivative financial instruments designated as fair value or net investment hedges on   December 31, 2014   or   2013  . 
  Interest Rate Risk.   Our financial instruments subject to interest rate risk include fixed-rate long-term debt obligations and variable-rate commercial paper. However, the risk associated with these instruments is not material. 
  Commodity Price Risk.   We are subject to risk of rising labor and commodity prices, primarily on long-term fixed-price contracts. To the extent possible, we include terms in our contracts that are designed to protect us from this risk. Some of the protective terms included in our contracts are considered derivatives but are not accounted for separately because they are clearly and closely related to the host contract. We have not entered into any material commodity hedging contracts but may do so as circumstances warrant. We do not believe that changes in labor or commodity prices will have a material impact on our results of operations or cash flows. 
  Investment Risk.   Our investment policy allows for purchases of fixed-income securities with an investment-grade rating and a maximum maturity of up to   five   years. On   December 31, 2014  , we held   $4.4 billion   in cash and equivalents and   $500   of marketable securities reported in other current assets. Our  
    68 

marketable securities had an average duration of less than one month and an average credit rating of AA-. Historically, we have not experienced material gains or losses on these instruments due to changes in interest rates or market values. 
  Foreign Currency Financial Statement Translation.   We translate foreign currency balance sheets from our international businesses  functional currency (generally the respective local currency) to U.S. dollars at the end-of-period exchange rates, and statements of earnings at the average exchange rates for each period. The resulting foreign currency translation adjustments are a component of OCL. 
  We do not hedge the fluctuation in reported revenues and earnings resulting from the translation of these international operations  results into U.S. dollars. The impact of translating our international operations  revenues and earnings into U.S. dollars was not material to our results of operations in any of the past three years. In addition, the effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on non-U.S. cash balances was not material in each of the past three years.   
    
    N. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
  Litigation 
  Various claims and other legal proceedings incidental to the normal course of business are pending or threatened against us. These matters relate to such issues as government investigations and claims, the protection of the environment, asbestos-related claims and employee-related matters. The nature of litigation is such that we cannot predict the outcome of these matters. However, based on information currently available, we believe any potential liabilities in these proceedings, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 
  Environmental 
  We are subject to and affected by a variety of federal, state, local and foreign environmental laws and regulations. We are directly or indirectly involved in environmental investigations or remediation at some of our current and former facilities and third-party sites that we do not own but where we have been designated a Potentially Responsible Party (PRP) by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency or a state environmental agency. Based on historical experience, we expect that a significant percentage of the total remediation and compliance costs associated with these facilities will continue to be allowable contract costs and, therefore, recoverable under U.S. government contracts. 
  As required, we provide financial assurance for certain sites undergoing or subject to investigation or remediation. We accrue environmental costs when it is probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Where applicable, we seek insurance recovery for costs related to environmental liabilities. We do not record insurance recoveries before collection is considered probable. Based on all known facts and analyses, we do not believe that our liability at any individual site, or in the aggregate, arising from such environmental conditions, will be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. We also do not believe that the range of reasonably possible additional loss beyond what has been recorded would be material to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 
  Minimum Lease Payments 
  Total expense under operating leases was   $297   in   2014  ,   $309   in   2013   and   $298   in   2012  . Operating leases are primarily for facilities and equipment. Future minimum lease payments are as follows: 
    69 

Other 
  Portugal Program.   In   2014  , we reached a settlement with the Portuguese Ministry of National Defense and Ministry of Economy relating to a dispute arising from a contract in our Combat Systems group s European Land Systems business to provide armored vehicles for which we had accrued   $258   in   2012  . The settlement provides for the delivery of vehicles and a significant reduction in our offset obligations and related bank guarantees. The settlement did not have a material impact on our   2014   results of operations, financial condition or cash flows as our liability was generally consistent with the amount previously recorded.   
  Government Contracts.   As a government contractor, we are subject to U.S. government audits and investigations relating to our operations, including claims for fines, penalties and compensatory and treble damages. We believe the outcome of such ongoing government audits and investigations will not have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 
  In the performance of our contracts, we routinely request contract modifications that require additional funding from the customer. Most often, these requests are due to customer-directed changes in the scope of work. While we are entitled to recovery of these costs under our contracts, the administrative process with our customer may be protracted. Based upon the circumstances, we periodically file requests for equitable adjustment (REAs) that are sometimes converted into claims. In some cases, these requests are disputed by our customer. We believe our outstanding modifications and other claims will be resolved without material impact to our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 
  Letters of Credit and Guarantees.   In the ordinary course of business, we have entered into letters of credit, bank guarantees, surety bonds and other similar arrangements with financial institutions and insurance carriers totaling approximately   $1 billion   on   December 31, 2014  . In addition, from time to time and in the ordinary course of business, we contractually guarantee the payment or performance obligations of our subsidiaries arising under certain contracts.  
  Aircraft Trade-ins.   In connection with orders for new aircraft in funded contract backlog, our Aerospace group has outstanding options with some customers to trade in aircraft as partial consideration in their new-aircraft transaction. These trade-in commitments are structured to establish the fair market value of the trade-in aircraft at a date generally   120   or fewer days preceding delivery of the new aircraft to the customer. At that time, the customer is required to either exercise the option or allow its expiration. Any excess of the pre-established trade-in price above the fair market value at the time the new outfitted aircraft is delivered is treated as a reduction of revenue in the new-aircraft sales transaction.  
  Labor Agreements.   Approximately   one-fifth   of the employees of our subsidiaries work under collectively-bargained terms and conditions, including   55   collective agreements that we have negotiated directly with unions and works councils. A number of these agreements expire within any given year. Historically, we have been successful at negotiating successor agreements without any material disruption of operating activities. In 2015, we expect to negotiate the terms of   15   agreements covering approximately  
    70 

2,400   employees. We do not expect the renegotiations will, either individually or in the aggregate, have a material impact on our results of operations, financial condition or cash flows. 
  Product Warranties.   We provide warranties to our customers associated with certain product sales. We record estimated warranty costs in the period in which the related products are delivered. The warranty liability recorded at each balance sheet date is generally based on the number of months of warranty coverage remaining for the products delivered and the average historical monthly warranty payments. Warranty obligations incurred in connection with long-term production contracts are accounted for within the contract estimates at completion. Our other warranty obligations, primarily for business-jet aircraft, are included in other current and noncurrent liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  The changes in the carrying amount of warranty liabilities for each of the past three years were as follows:  

O. EQUITY COMPENSATION PLANS 
  Equity Compensation Overview.   We have various equity compensation plans for employees, as well as for non-employee members of our board of directors. The equity compensation plans seek to provide an effective means of attracting, retaining and motivating directors, officers and key employees, and to provide them with incentives to enhance our growth and profitability. Under the equity compensation plans, awards may be granted to officers, employees or non-employee directors in common stock, options to purchase common stock, restricted shares of common stock, participation units or any combination of these. 
  Stock options granted under the equity compensation plans are issued with an exercise price at the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant. Outstanding awards of stock options vest over   two   years, with   50 percent   of the options vesting in one year and the remaining   50 percent   vesting the following year. Stock options that have been awarded under the equity compensation plans expire   five   or   seven   years after the grant date. We grant annual stock option awards to participants in the equity compensation plans on the first Wednesday of March based on the average of the high and low stock prices on that day as listed on the New York Stock Exchange. We may make limited ad hoc grants at other times during the year for new hires or promotions. 
  Grants of restricted stock are awards of shares of common stock that vest approximately   four   years after the grant date. During the restriction period, recipients may not sell, transfer, pledge, assign or otherwise convey their restricted shares to another party. However, during this period, the recipient is entitled to vote the restricted shares and receive cash dividends on those shares. 
  Participation units represent obligations that have a value derived from or related to the value of our common stock. These include stock appreciation rights, phantom stock units and restricted stock units (RSUs) and are payable in cash or common stock. Like restricted stock, participation units vest approximately four years after the grant date with recipients prohibited from certain activities during the restriction period. However, during this period, the recipient receives dividend-equivalent units rather than cash dividends, and is not entitled to vote the participation units or the dividend-equivalent units. 
    71 

Beginning in 2012, we granted RSUs with a performance measure based on a non-GAAP management metric, return on invested capital (ROIC). Depending on the company s performance with respect to this metric, the number of RSUs earned may be less than, equal to or greater than the original number of RSUs awarded. For a definition of ROIC, see Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations contained in Item 7.  
  We issue common stock under our equity compensation plans from treasury stock. On   December 31, 2014  , in addition to the shares reserved for issuance upon the exercise of outstanding stock options, approximately   13 million   shares have been authorized for stock options and restricted stock that may be granted in the future. 
    
  Stock-based Compensation Expense.   Stock-based compensation expense is included in G A expenses. The following table details the components of stock-based compensation expense recognized in net earnings (loss) in each of the past three years: 

Stock Options.   We recognize compensation expense related to stock options on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the awards, which is generally two years. We estimate the fair value of stock options on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions for each of the past three years: 

We determine the above assumptions based on the following: 
             
    Expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of our common stock over a period equal to the expected term of the option. 
                
    Expected term is based on historical option exercise data. Based on this data, we have estimated different expected terms and determined a separate fair value for options granted for two employee populations. 
                
    Risk-free interest rate is the yield on a U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issue with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the option at the grant date. 
                
    Expected dividend yield is based on our historical dividend yield. 
       
  The resulting weighted average fair value per stock option granted was   $13.99   in   2014  ,   $8.90   in   2013   and   $13.23   in   2012  . Stock option expense reduced pretax operating earnings (and on a per-share basis) by   $59   (  $0.11  ) in   2014  ,   $74   (  $0.14  ) in   2013     and     $88   (  $0.16  ) in   2012  . Compensation expense for stock options is reported as a Corporate expense for segment reporting purposes (see Note Q). On   December 31, 2014  , we had   $42   of unrecognized compensation cost related to stock options, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of   one year  . 
  A summary of stock option activity during   2014   follows: 
    72 

Summary information with respect to our stock options  intrinsic value and remaining contractual term on   December 31, 2014  , follows: 

In the table above, intrinsic value is calculated as the excess, if any, between the market price of our stock on the last trading day of the year and the exercise price of the options. For stock options exercised, intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the market price on the date of exercise and the exercise price. The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised was   $340   in   2014  ,   $154   in   2013   and   $112   in   2012  . We received cash from the exercise of stock options of   $547   in   2014  ,   $583   in   2013   and   $146   in   2012  .  
    
  Restricted Stock/Restricted Stock Units.   We determine the fair value of restricted stock and RSUs as the average of the high and low market prices of our stock on the date of grant. We generally recognize compensation expense related to restricted stock and RSUs on a straight-line basis over the period during which the restriction lapses, which is generally four years. 
    
  Compensation expense related to restricted stock and RSUs reduced pretax operating earnings (and on a per-share basis) by   $69   (  $0.13  ) in   2014  ,   $46   (  $0.09  ) in   2013   and   $26   (  $0.05  ) in   2012  . On   December 31, 2014  , we had   $32   of unrecognized compensation cost related to restricted stock and RSUs, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of   2.2 years  . 
    
  A summary of restricted stock and RSU activity during   2014   follows: 

The total fair value of vesting shares was   $47   in   2014  ,   $63   in   2013   and   $28   in   2012  . 
    73 

P. RETIREMENT PLANS 
  We provide defined-contribution benefits to eligible employees, as well as some remaining defined-benefit pension and other post-retirement benefits. 
  Retirement Plan Summary Information 
  Defined-contribution Benefits.   We provide eligible employees the opportunity to participate in defined-contribution savings plans (commonly known as 401(k) plans), which permit contributions on a before-tax and after-tax basis. Generally, salaried employees and certain hourly employees are eligible to participate in the plans. Under most plans, the employee may contribute to various investment alternatives, including investment in our common stock. In some of these plans, we match a portion of the employees  contributions. Our contributions to these plans totaled   $238   in   2014  ,   $204   in   2013     and     $201   in   2012  . The defined-contribution plans held approximately   25 million   and   27 million   shares of our common stock, representing approximately   7 percent     and   8 percent   of our outstanding shares on   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively. 
  Pension Benefits.   We have   six   noncontributory and   six   contributory trusteed, qualified defined-benefit pension plans covering eligible government business employees, and   two   noncontributory and   four   contributory plans covering eligible commercial business employees, including some employees of our international operations. The primary factors affecting the benefits earned by participants in our pension plans are employees  years of service and compensation levels. Our primary government pension plan, which comprises the majority of our unfunded obligation, was closed to new salaried participants on January 1, 2007. Additionally, we made changes to this plan for certain participants effective in 2014 that limit or cease the benefits that accrue for future service. 
  We also sponsor   one   funded and several unfunded non-qualified supplemental executive plans, which provide participants with additional benefits, including excess benefits over limits imposed on qualified plans by federal tax law. 
  Other Post-retirement Benefits.   We maintain plans that provide post-retirement healthcare and life insurance coverage for certain employees and retirees. These benefits vary by employment status, age, service and salary level at retirement. The coverage provided and the extent to which the retirees share in the cost of the program vary throughout the company. The plans provide health and life insurance benefits only to those employees who retire directly from our service and not to those who terminate service prior to eligibility for retirement. 
  Contributions and Benefit Payments 
  It is our policy to fund our defined-benefit retirement plans in a manner that optimizes the tax deductibility and contract recovery of contributions, considered within our capital deployment framework. Therefore, we may make discretionary contributions in addition to the required contributions determined in accordance with IRS regulations. We contributed   $513   to our pension plans in   2014   and expect to contribute approximately   $185   to our pension plans in   2015  . 
  We maintain several tax-advantaged accounts, primarily Voluntary Employees  Beneficiary Association (VEBA) trusts, to fund the obligations for some of our post-retirement benefit plans. For non-funded plans, claims are paid as received. 
  We expect the following benefits to be paid from our retirement plans over the next 10 years: 
    74 

Government Contract Considerations 
  Our contractual arrangements with the U.S. government provide for the recovery of contributions to our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans covering employees working in our defense business groups. For non-funded plans, our government contracts allow us to recover claims paid. Following payment, these recoverable amounts are allocated to contracts and billed to the customer in accordance with the Cost Accounting Standards (CAS) and specific contractual terms. For some of these plans, the cumulative pension and post-retirement benefit cost exceeds the amount currently allocable to contracts. To the extent recovery of the cost is considered probable based on our backlog and probable follow-on contracts, we defer the excess in contracts in process on the Consolidated Balance Sheets until the cost is allocable to contracts. See Note G for discussion of our deferred contract costs. For other plans, the amount allocated to contracts and included in revenues has exceeded the plans  cumulative benefit cost. We have deferred recognition of these excess earnings to provide a better matching of revenues and expenses. These deferrals have been classified against the plan assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  Defined-benefit Retirement Plan Summary Financial Information 
  Estimating retirement plan assets, liabilities and costs requires the extensive use of actuarial assumptions. These include the long-term rate of return on plan assets, the interest rate used to discount projected benefit payments, healthcare cost trend rates and future salary increases. Given the long-term nature of the assumptions being made, actual outcomes can and often do differ from these estimates. 
  Our annual benefit cost consists of three primary elements: the cost of benefits earned by employees for services rendered during the year, an interest charge on our plan liabilities and an assumed return on our plan assets for the year. The annual cost also includes gains and losses resulting from changes in actuarial assumptions, differences between the actual and assumed long-term rate of return on assets and gains and losses resulting from changes we make to plan benefit terms. 
  We recognize an asset or liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets equal to the funded status of each of our defined-benefit retirement plans. The funded status is the difference between the fair value of the plan s assets and its benefit obligation. Changes in plan assets and liabilities due to differences between actuarial assumptions and the actual results of the plan are deferred in OCL rather than charged to earnings. These differences are then amortized over future years as a component of our annual benefit cost. We amortize actuarial differences under qualified plans on a straight-line basis over the average remaining service period of eligible employees. We recognize the difference between the actual and expected return on plan assets for qualified plans over   five   years. The deferral of these differences reduces the volatility of our annual benefit cost that can result either from year-to-year changes in the assumptions or from actual results that are not necessarily representative of the long-term financial position of these plans. We recognize differences under nonqualified plans immediately. 
  Our annual pension and other post-retirement benefit costs consisted of the following: 
    75 

The following is a reconciliation of the benefit obligations and plan/trust assets, and the resulting funded status, of our defined-benefit retirement plans: 

Amounts recognized on our Consolidated Balance Sheets consisted of the following: 
    76 

Amounts deferred in AOCL consisted of the following: 

The following is a reconciliation of the change in AOCL for our defined-benefit retirement plans: 

* Includes foreign exchange translation and curtailment adjustments. 
  The following table represents amounts deferred in AOCL on the Consolidated Balance Sheets on   December 31, 2014  , that we expect to recognize in our retirement benefit cost in   2015  : 
                                 
    Pension Benefits 
      
    Other Post-retirement 
  Benefits 
      
      Prior service credit 
    $ 
    (67 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    (5 
    ) 
      
      Net actuarial loss 
    438 

6 

A pension plan s funded status is the difference between the plan s assets and its projected benefit obligation (PBO). The PBO is the present value of future benefits attributed to employee services rendered to date, including assumptions about future compensation levels. A pension plan s accumulated benefit obligation (ABO) is the present value of future benefits attributed to employee services rendered to date, excluding assumptions about future compensation levels. The ABO for all defined-benefit pension plans was   $12.8 billion   and   $10.6 billion   on   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , respectively. On   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , some of our pension plans had an ABO that exceeded the plans  assets. Summary information for those plans follows: 

77 

Retirement Plan Assumptions 
  We calculate the plan assets and liabilities for a given year and the net periodic benefit cost for the subsequent year using assumptions determined as of December 31 of the year in question. 
  The following table summarizes the weighted average assumptions used to determine our benefit obligations: 

The following table summarizes the weighted average assumptions used to determine our net periodic benefit costs: 

We base the discount rate on a current yield curve developed from a portfolio of high-quality fixed-income investments with maturities consistent with the projected benefit payout period. We determine the long-term rate of return on assets based on consideration of historical and forward-looking returns and the current and expected asset allocation strategy. 
  In   2014  , we adopted updated mortality tables published by the Society of Actuaries that predict increasing life expectancies in the United States. Additionally, we updated several other assumptions to align them with historical experience, including rates of retirement and cost of living increases. The impact of these changes was a net increase of   $566   and   $28   in the benefit obligations of our pension and other post-retirement benefit plans, respectively, on   December 31, 2014  .  
  Retirement plan assumptions are based on our best judgment, including consideration of current and future market conditions. Changes in these estimates impact future pension and post-retirement benefit costs. As discussed above, we defer recognition of the cumulative benefit cost for our government plans in excess of costs allocable to contracts to provide a better matching of revenues and expenses. Therefore, the impact of annual changes in financial reporting assumptions on the cost for these plans does not affect our operating results either positively or negatively. For our domestic pension plans that represent the majority of our total obligation, the following hypothetical changes in the discount rate and expected long-term rate of return on plan assets would have had the following impact in   2014  : 
    78 

Increase 
  25 basis points 
      
    Decrease 
  25 basis points 
      Increase (decrease) to net pension cost from: 

Change in discount rate 
    $ 
    (29 
    ) 
      
    $ 
    30 
      
      Change in long-term rate of return on plan assets 
    (18 
    ) 
      
    18 

A 25-basis-point change in these assumed rates would not have had a measurable impact on the benefit cost for our other post-retirement plans in   2014  . For our healthcare plans, the effect of a 1 percentage point increase or decrease in the assumed healthcare cost trend rate on the net periodic benefit cost is   $6   and   ($5)  , respectively, and the effect on the accumulated post-retirement benefit obligation is   $94   and   ($75)  , respectively. 
  Plan Assets 
  A committee of our board of directors is responsible for the strategic oversight of our defined-benefit retirement plan assets held in trust. Management reports to the committee on a regular basis and is responsible for overseeing all investment decisions related to defined-benefit retirement plan assets made by a third-party investment manager in compliance with the company s policies. 
  Our investment policy endeavors to strike the appropriate balance among capital preservation, asset growth and current income. The objective of our investment policy is to generate future returns consistent with our assumed long-term rate of return used to determine our benefit obligations and net periodic benefit costs. Target allocation percentages vary over time depending on the perceived risk and return potential of various asset classes and market conditions. At the end of   2014  , our asset allocation policy ranges were: 

More than   90 percent   of our pension plan assets are held in a single trust for our primary U.S. government and commercial pension plans. On   December 31, 2014  , the trust was invested largely in publicly traded equities and fixed-income securities, but may invest in other asset classes in the future consistent with our investment policy. Our investments in equity assets include U.S. and international securities and equity funds as well as futures contracts on U.S. equity indices. Our investments in fixed-income assets include U.S. Treasury and U.S. agency securities, corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, futures contracts and international securities. Our investment policy allows the use of derivative instruments when appropriate to reduce anticipated asset volatility, to gain exposure to an asset class or to adjust the duration of fixed-income assets. 
  Assets for our non-U.S. pension plans are held in trusts in the countries in which the related operations reside. Our non-U.S. operations maintain investment policies for their individual plans based on country-specific regulations. The non-U.S. plan assets are primarily invested in commingled funds comprised of non-U.S. and U.S. equities and fixed-income securities. 
  We hold assets in VEBA trusts for some of our other post-retirement plans. These assets are generally invested in equities, corporate bonds and equity-based mutual funds. Our asset allocation strategy for the VEBA trusts considers potential fluctuations in our post-retirement liability, the taxable nature of certain VEBA trusts, tax deduction limits on contributions and the regulatory environment. 
    79 

Our retirement plan assets are reported at fair value. See Note D for a discussion of the hierarchy for determining fair value. Our Level 1 assets include investments in publicly traded equity securities and commingled funds. These securities (and the underlying investments of the funds) are actively traded and valued using quoted prices for identical securities from the market exchanges. Our Level 2 assets consist of fixed-income securities and commingled funds that are not actively traded or whose underlying investments are valued using observable marketplace inputs. The fair value of plan assets invested in fixed-income securities is generally determined using valuation models that use observable inputs such as interest rates, bond yields, low-volume market quotes and quoted prices for similar assets. Our plan assets that are invested in commingled funds are valued using a unit price or net asset value (NAV) that is based on the underlying investments of the fund. We had minimal Level 3 plan assets on   December 31, 2014  . These investments include real estate and hedge funds, insurance deposit contracts and direct private equity investments. 
  The fair value of our pension plan assets by investment category and the corresponding level within the fair value hierarchy were as follows: 

(a) 
    No single equity holding amounted to more than   1 percent   of the total fair value. 
              (b) 
    Our corporate bond investments had an average rating of   A-  . 
       80 

(a) 
    No single equity holding amounted to more than   1 percent   of the total fair value. 
              (b) 
    Our corporate bond investments had an average rating of   A-  . 
       
  The fair value of our other post-retirement plan assets by category and the corresponding level within the fair value hierarchy were as follows: 

81 

Changes in our Level 3 retirement plan assets during   2013   and   2014   were as follows: 

Q. BUSINESS GROUP INFORMATION 
  We operate in   four   business groups: Aerospace, Combat Systems, Information Systems and Technology and Marine Systems. We organize our business groups in accordance with the nature of products and services offered. These business groups derive their revenues from business aviation; combat vehicles, weapons systems and munitions; communications and information technology systems and solutions; and military and commercial shipbuilding and services, respectively. We measure each group s profit based on operating earnings. As a result, we do not allocate net interest, other income and expense items, and income taxes to our business groups. 
  Summary financial information for each of our business groups follows: 

82 

(a) Operating earnings in 2012 in our Information Systems and Technology group include   $2.1 billion   of goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges (see Note B for further discussion). 
  (b) Corporate operating results consist primarily of stock option expense. Corporate identifiable assets are primarily cash and equivalents. 
  The following table presents our revenues by geographic area based on the location of our customers: 

Our revenues from operations located outside the United States were   $3.6 billion   in   2014  ,   $3.3 billion   in   2013   and     $4.3 billion   in   2012  . The long-lived assets associated with these operations were   6 percent   of our total long-lived assets on   December 31, 2014   and   2013  . 
    
    R. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  The fixed-rate notes described in Note J are fully and unconditionally guaranteed on an unsecured, joint and several basis by certain of our   100  -percent-owned subsidiaries (the guarantors). The following condensed consolidating financial statements illustrate the composition of the parent, the guarantors on a combined basis (each guarantor together with its majority owned subsidiaries) and all other subsidiaries on a combined basis. 
    83 

R. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS (LOSS) 

84 

R. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS 

85 

R. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEETS 

86 

R. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

* Continuing operations only. 
    87 

R. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATING STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 

* Continuing operations only. 
    88 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  The Board of Directors and Shareholders of General Dynamics Corporation: 
  We have audited the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets of General Dynamics Corporation and subsidiaries (the Company) as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss), Comprehensive Income (Loss), Cash Flows, and Shareholders  Equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended   December 31, 2014  . These Consolidated Financial Statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Consolidated Financial Statements based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, the Consolidated Financial Statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of General Dynamics Corporation and subsidiaries as of   December 31, 2014  , and   2013  , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended   December 31, 2014  , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), General Dynamics Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2014  , based on the criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated   February 9, 2015  , expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 

KPMG LLP 

McLean, Virginia 
  February 9, 2015    
    
    89 

SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
  (UNAUDITED) 

Quarterly data are based on a 13-week period. Because our fiscal year ends on   December 31  , the number of days in our first and fourth quarters varies slightly from year to year. 
  (a)  Fourth-quarter 2013 includes $129 loss, net of tax, in discontinued operations from the settlement of the A-12 litigation. 
  (b)  Second-quarter 2014 includes $105 loss, net of tax, in discontinued operations primarily to write down the net assets of our held-for-sale axle business to their estimated fair value. 
  (c)  Fourth-quarter 2014 includes $36 loss, net of tax, in discontinued operations primarily to true up the loss on the sale of the axle business completed in January 2015. 
  (d)  The sum of the basic and diluted earnings per share for the four quarters of the year may differ from the annual basic and diluted earnings per share due to the required method of computing the weighted average number of shares in interim periods. Diluted EPS in 2014 includes contingently issuable shares associated with our accelerated share repurchase program that was completed in the fourth quarter of 2014. 
    
    ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
  None. 
    
    ITEM 9A.   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
  EVALUATION OF DISCLOSURE CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
  Our management, under the supervision and with the participation of the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of   December 31, 2014   (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and Rule 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (Exchange Act)). Based on this evaluation, the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of   December 31, 2014  , our disclosure controls and procedures were effective. 
  The certifications of the company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer required under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act have been filed as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this report. 
    90 

MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
  To the Shareholders of General Dynamics Corporation: 
  The management of General Dynamics Corporation is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Our internal control system was designed to provide reasonable assurance to our management and board of directors regarding the preparation and fair presentation of published financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  Our management evaluated the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014. In making this evaluation, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control (COSO)   Integrated Framework (2013). Based on our evaluation we believe that, as of December 31, 2014, our internal control over financial reporting is effective based on those criteria. 
  KPMG LLP has issued an audit report on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. The KPMG report immediately follows this report. 

Phebe N. Novakovic 

Jason W. Aiken 
      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

91 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  The Board of Directors and Shareholders of General Dynamics Corporation: 
  We have audited General Dynamics Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2014  , based on the criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). General Dynamics Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, General Dynamics Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2014  , based on the criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). 
    92 

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Consolidated Balance Sheets of General Dynamics Corporation and subsidiaries as of   December 31, 2014   and   2013  , and the related Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss), Comprehensive Income (Loss), Cash Flows and Shareholders  Equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended   December 31, 2014  , and our report dated   February 9, 2015  , expressed an unqualified opinion on those Consolidated Financial Statements. 

CHANGES IN INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
  There were   no   significant changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended   December 31, 2014  , that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
    
    ITEM 9B.   OTHER INFORMATION 
  None. 
    
    PART III 
    
    ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
  The information required to be set forth herein, except for the information included under Executive Officers of the Company in Part I, is included in the sections entitled  Election of the Board of Directors of the Company,   Governance of the Company   Our Culture  of Ethics,   Audit Committee Report  and  Other Information   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our definitive proxy statement for our   2015   annual shareholders meeting (the Proxy Statement), which sections are incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    93 

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
  The information required to be set forth herein is included in the sections entitled  Governance of the Company   Director Compensation,   Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Executive Compensation  and  Compensation Committee Report  in our Proxy Statement, which sections are incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
  The information required to be set forth herein is included in the sections entitled  Security Ownership of Management  and  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners  in our Proxy Statement, which sections are incorporated herein by reference. 
  The information required to be set forth herein with respect to securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans is included in the section entitled  Equity Compensation Plan Information  in our Proxy Statement, which section is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
  The information required to be set forth herein is included in the sections entitled  Governance of the Company   Related Person Transactions Policy  and  Governance of the Company   Director Independence  in our Proxy Statement, which sections are incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    ITEM 14.   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 
  The information required to be set forth herein is included in the section entitled  Selection of Independent Auditors   Audit and Non-Audit Fees  in our Proxy Statement, which section is incorporated herein by reference. 
    
    PART IV 
    
    ITEM 15.   EXHIBITS  
  1. Consolidated Financial Statements 
                 
        Consolidated Statements of Earnings (Loss) 
        Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
        Consolidated Balance Sheets 
        Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
        Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity 
        Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (A to R) 

94 

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION 

by 

Kimberly A. Kuryea 

Vice President and Controller 

Dated:  February 9, 2015 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, this report has been signed below on   February 9, 2015  , by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated, including a majority of the directors. 
    95 

Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and Director 
      Phebe N. Novakovic 
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
      Jason W. Aiken 
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

Vice President and Controller 
      Kimberly A. Kuryea 
    (Principal Accounting Officer) 

* 
      
      Mary T. Barra 
    Director 

* 
      
      Nicholas D. Chabraja 
    Director 

* 
      
      James S. Crown 
    Director 

* 
      
      Rudy F. deLeon 
    Director 

* 
      
      William P. Fricks 
    Director 

* 
      
      John M. Keane 
    Director 

* 
      
      Lester L. Lyles 
    Director 

* 
      
      James N. Mattis 
    Director 

* 
      
      William A. Osborn 
    Director 

* 
      
      Laura J. Schumacher 
    Director 

* 
      
      Robert Walmsley 
    Director 

* By Gregory S. Gallopoulos pursuant to a Power of Attorney executed by the directors listed above, which Power of Attorney has been filed as an exhibit hereto and incorporated herein by reference thereto. 

Gregory S. Gallopoulos 
        
    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 

96 

INDEX TO EXHIBITS   GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION 
  COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-3671 
  Exhibits listed below, which have been filed with the Commission pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and which were filed as noted below, are hereby incorporated by reference and made a part of this report with the same effect as if filed herewith. 
                 Exhibit 
  Number 
    Description 

3.1 
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the company (incorporated herein by reference from the company s current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission October 7, 2004) 

3.2 
    Amended and Restated Bylaws of General Dynamics Corporation (as amended effective February 4, 2009) (incorporated herein by reference from the company s current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission February 5, 2009) 

4.1 
    Indenture dated as of August 27, 2001, among the company, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York, as Trustee (incorporated herein by reference from the company s registration statement on Form S-4, filed with the Commission January 18, 2002) 

4.2 
    Sixth Supplemental Indenture dated as of July 12, 2011, among the company, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee (incorporated herein by reference from the company s current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission July 12, 2011) 

4.3 
    Seventh Supplemental Indenture dated as of November 6, 2012, among the company, the Guarantors (as defined therein) and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Trustee (incorporated herein by reference from the company s current report on Form 8-K, filed with the Commission November 6, 2012) 

10.1* 
    General Dynamics Corporation 2009 Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s registration statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-159038) filed with the Commission May 7, 2009) 

10.2* 
    Form of Incentive Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation 2009 Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 5, 2009, filed with the Commission August 4, 2009) 

10.3* 
    Form of Non-Statutory Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation 2009 Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 5, 2009, filed with the Commission August 4, 2009) 

10.4* 
    General Dynamics Corporation 2012 Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s registration statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-181124) filed with the Commission May 3, 2012) 

10.5* 
    Form of Non-Statutory Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation 2012 Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2012, filed with the Commission August 1, 2012) 

97 

10.6* 
    Form of Non-Statutory Stock Option Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation 2012 Equity Compensation Plan (for certain executive officers who are subject to the General Dynamics Corporation Compensation Recoupment Policy) (incorporated herein by reference from the company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30, 2014, filed with the Commission April 23, 2014) 

10.7* 
    Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation 2012 Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2012, filed with the Commission August 1, 2012) 

10.8* 
    Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation 2012 Equity Compensation Plan (for certain executive officers who are subject to the General Dynamics Corporation Compensation Recoupment Policy) (incorporated herein by reference from the company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30, 2014, filed with the Commission April 23, 2014) 

10.9* 
    Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation 2012 Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2012, filed with the Commission August 1, 2012) 

10.10* 
    Form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation 2012 Equity Compensation Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 2012, filed with the Commission August 1, 2012) 

10.11* 
    Form of Performance Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement pursuant to the General Dynamics Corporation 2012 Equity Compensation Plan (for certain executive officers who are subject to the General Dynamics Corporation Compensation Recoupment Policy) (incorporated herein by reference from the company s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the period ended March 30, 2014, filed with the Commission April 23, 2014) 

10.12* 
    Successor Retirement Plan for Directors (incorporated herein by reference from the company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, filed with the Commission March 5, 2004) 

10.13* 
    General Dynamics United Kingdom Share Save Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, filed with the Commission March 24, 2003) 

10.14* 
    2009 General Dynamics United Kingdom Share Save Plan (incorporated herein by reference from the company s registration statement on Form S-8 (No. 333-159045) filed with the Commission May 7, 2009) 

10.15* 
    General Dynamics Corporation Supplemental Savings Plan, amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2014 (incorporated herein by reference from the company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2013, filed with the Commission on February 7, 2014) 

10.16* 
    Amendment to General Dynamics Corporation Supplemental Savings Plan, effective January 5, 2015** 

10.17* 
    Form of Severance Protection Agreement entered into by substantially all executive officers elected prior to April 23, 2009 (incorporated herein by reference from the company s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed with the Commission February 20, 2009) 

98 

* Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed pursuant to Item 15(b) of Form 10-K. 
  ** Filed herewith. 
    99 

<EX-10.16>
 2
 ex1016-20141231.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.16

Ex 10.16-2014.12.31 

Exhibit 10.16 

AMENDMENT TO THE GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION  
  SUPPLEMENTAL SAVINGS PLAN 

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.1 of the General Dynamics Corporation Supplemental Savings Plan (the  Plan ), the Plan shall be amended as follows: 
    
           1. 
    Effective January 5, 2015, Section 7.3 of the Plan shall be amended by adding a new second paragraph as follows: 
       
   The preceding paragraph shall not apply to any domestic relations order as defined in  Code Section 414(p)(1)(B).  If a domestic relations order is submitted to the Company that is intended to divide a Participant s Account between the Participant and an alternate payee, such order shall be applied by the Company if it clearly specifies the manner for determining the alternate payee s share of the Participant s Account and it does not require the Company to provide to the alternate payee a benefit that is not otherwise provided or available under the Plan.  The Company may make payments to an alternate payee on the earliest date specified in the domestic relations order, without regard to whether such payment is made prior to the earliest date that the Participant could receive payments pursuant to the Plan.  The Company may adopt rules, policies and procedures regarding the administration of domestic relations orders similar to those rules, policies and procedures used for applicable Qualified Plans.   

</EX-10.16>

<EX-10.20>
 3
 ex1020-20141231.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.20

Ex 10.20-2014.12.31 

Exhibit 10.20 

AMENDMENT TO THE GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION  
  SUPPLEMENTAL RETIREMENT PLAN 

Pursuant to the provisions of Section 6.01 of the General Dynamics Corporation Supplemental Retirement Plan (the  Plan ), the Plan shall be amended as follows: 
    
           1. 
    Effective January 5, 2015, Section 5.03 of the Plan shall be amended by adding a new second paragraph as follows: 
       
   The preceding paragraph shall not apply to any domestic relations order as defined in  Code Section 414(p)(1)(B).  If a domestic relations order is submitted to the Corporation that is intended to divide a Participant s benefit between the Participant and an alternate payee, such order shall be applied by the Corporation if it clearly specifies the manner for determining the alternate payee s share of the Participant s benefit and it does not require the Corporation to provide to the alternate payee a benefit that is not otherwise provided or available under the Plan.  The Corporation may make payments to an alternate payee on the earliest date specified in the domestic relations order without regard to whether such payment is made prior to the earliest date that the Participant could receive payments, provided payment commencement is in accordance with the Plan.  The Corporation may adopt rules, policies and procedures regarding the administration of domestic relations orders similar to those rules, policies and procedures used for applicable Defined Benefit Plans.  

</EX-10.20>

<EX-21>
 4
 ex21-20141231.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Ex 21-2014.12.31 

Exhibit 21 
      GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION 
      SUBSIDIARIES 
      AS OF JANUARY 31, 2015 

Subsidiaries of General Dynamics Corporation  
  (Parent and Registrant) 
    Place of 
  Incorporation 
    Percent of  
  Voting Power 
      American Overseas Marine Company, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Applied Physical Sciences Corp. 
    Connecticut 
    100 
      ARMA Global Corporation 
    Florida 
    100 
      ASCOD A.I.E. 
    Spain 
    100 
      AV Technology, LLC 
    Maryland 
    100 
      Bath Iron Works Australia Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Bath Iron Works Canada, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Bath Iron Works Corporation 
    Maine 
    100 
      Blueprint Technologies, Inc. 
    Virginia 
    100 
      Braintree I Maritime Corp. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Braintree II Maritime Corp. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Braintree III Maritime Corp. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Braintree IV Maritime Corp. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Braintree V Maritime Corp. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Buccaneer Computer Systems   Service, Inc. 
    Virginia 
    100 
      Concord I Maritime Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Concord II Maritime Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Concord III Maritime Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Concord IV Maritime Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Concord V Maritime Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Convair Aircraft Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Convair Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Eagle Enterprise, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      EB Groton Engineering, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      EBV Explosives Environmental Company 
    Delaware 
    100 
      ELCS-CZ, s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
    100 
      Electric Boat - Australia, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Electric Boat - UK, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Electric Boat Canada, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Electric Boat Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Electrocom, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Expro Finance Inc. 
    Canada 
    100 
      Force Dynamics LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Force Protection Australasia Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
    100 
      Force Protection Europe Limited 
    England and Wales 
    100 
      Force Protection, Inc. 
    Nevada 
    100 
      ForeSight Technology Services, LLC 
    Virginia 
    100 
      Freeman United Coal Mining Company, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      G.T. Devices, Inc. 
    Maryland 
    100 
      GD Brazil Holdings LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      GD European Land Systems - Steyr GmbH 
    Austria 
    100 
      GD European Land Systems Holding GmbH 
    Austria 
    100 
      GDOTS Holdings, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      GDOTS Services Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 

General Dynamics - OTS (Global), Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Advanced Information Systems, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics AIS Australia Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
    100 
      General Dynamics Broadband Holdings, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Broadband UK Limited 
    England 
    100 
      General Dynamics Broadband, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics C4 Systems, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Canada Ltd. 
    Canada 
    100 
      General Dynamics Canadian Holdings Inc. 
    New Brunswick 
    100 
      General Dynamics do Brasil Solucoes Para Projectos Ltda 
    Brazil 
    100 
      General Dynamics European Finance Limited 
    England and Wales 
    100 
      General Dynamics European Land Systems - Austria GmbH 
    Austria 
    100 
      General Dynamics European Land Systems - Czech s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
    100 
      General Dynamics European Land Systems - Germany GmbH 
    Germany 
    100 
      General Dynamics European Land Systems - Mowag GmbH 
    Switzerland 
    100 
      General Dynamics European Land Systems, S.L. 
    Spain 
    100 
      General Dynamics Fidelis Cybersecurity Solutions, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Global Force, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Global Holdings Limited 
    England and Wales 
    100 
      General Dynamics Global Imaging Technologies, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Government Satellite Services, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Government Systems Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Government Systems Overseas Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Information Technology Canada, Limited 
    Canada 
    100 
      General Dynamics Information Technology Commercial Solutions, LLC 
    Virginia 
    100 
      General Dynamics Information Technology Limited 
    United Kingdom 
    100 
      General Dynamics Information Technology, Inc. 
    Virginia 
    100 
      General Dynamics Installation Services, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics International Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Itronix, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Land Systems - Australia Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
    100 
      General Dynamics Land Systems - Canada Corporation 
    New Brunswick 
    100 
      General Dynamics Land Systems - Canada Services Inc. 
    New Brunswick 
    100 
      General Dynamics Land Systems - Canadian Services Limited 
    New Brunswick 
    100 
      General Dynamics Land Systems - Force Protection Inc. 
    Nevada 
    100 
      General Dynamics Land Systems Customer Service   Support Company 
    Texas 
    100 
      General Dynamics Land Systems Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Limited 
    England 
    100 
      General Dynamics Marine Systems, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Mission Systems, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics One Source, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Ordnance and Tactical Systems - Canada Inc. 
    Canada 
    100 
      General Dynamics Ordnance and Tactical Systems - Canada Valleyfield Inc. 
    Canada 
    100 
      General Dynamics Ordnance and Tactical Systems - Simunition Operations, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Ordnance and Tactical Systems, Inc. 
    Virginia 
    100 
      General Dynamics OTS (Aerospace), Inc. 
    Washington 
    100 
      General Dynamics OTS (California), Inc. 
    California 
    100 
      General Dynamics OTS (DRI), Inc. 
    Alabama 
    100 
      General Dynamics OTS (Niceville), Inc. 
    Florida 
    100 
      General Dynamics OTS (Pennsylvania), Inc. 
    Pennsylvania 
    100 

General Dynamics Overseas Systems and Services Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Properties, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Robotic Systems, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Satcom Technologies Asia Private Limited 
    India 
    100 
      General Dynamics SATCOM Technologies, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Satellite Communication Services, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Shared Resources, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Support Services Company 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics Systems Australia Pty Limited 
    Australia 
    100 
      General Dynamics United Kingdom Limited 
    United Kingdom 
    100 
      General Dynamics Worldwide Holdings, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      General Dynamics-OTS, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      GM GDLS Defense Group, L.L.C. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Gulfstream 100 Holdings LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation (CA) 
    California 
    100 
      Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation (DE) 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation (GA) 
    Georgia 
    100 
      Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation (OK) 
    Oklahoma 
    100 
      Gulfstream Aerospace Corporation of Texas 
    Texas 
    100 
      Gulfstream Aerospace Hong Kong Limited 
    China 
    100 
      Gulfstream Aerospace LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Gulfstream Aerospace LP 
    Texas 
    100 
      Gulfstream Aerospace Services Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Gulfstream Aerospace, Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 
    100 
      Gulfstream Do Brasil Servicos De Suporte E Manutencao A Aeronaves Ltda. 
    Brazil 
    100 
      Gulfstream International Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Gulfstream Leasing LLC 
    Georgia 
    100 
      Gulfstream Product Support Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Gulfstream Tennessee Corporation 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Gulfstream-California, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Intellect IP Holdings, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Interiores Aereos S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
    100 
      International Manufacturing Technologies, Inc. 
    California 
    100 
      Itronix Manufacturing LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Jet Aviation (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
    100 
      Jet Aviation (Bermuda) Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
    100 
      Jet Aviation (Hong Kong) Ltd. 
    Hong Kong 
    100 
      Jet Aviation (Malaysia) SDN, BHD 
    Malaysia 
    100 
      Jet Aviation AG 
    Switzerland 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Associates, Ltd. 
    Florida 
    98 
      Jet Aviation Brazil Holdings, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Business Jets (Hong Kong) Limited 
    Hong Kong 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Business Jets AG 
    Switzerland 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Business Jets FZCO 
    Dubai, UAE 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Consulting Services L.P. 
    Texas 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Engineering Management, Inc. 
    Texas 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Flight Services, Inc. 
    Maryland 
    100 
      Jet Aviation France SAS 
    France 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Holding GmbH 
    Switzerland 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Holdings USA, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 

Jet Aviation Houston, Inc. 
    Texas 
    100 
      Jet Aviation International, Inc. 
    Florida 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Management AG 
    Switzerland 
    100 
      Jet Aviation of America, Inc. 
    Maryland 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Private Fleet, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Savannah Holding, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Services GmbH 
    Germany 
    100 
      Jet Aviation St. Louis, Inc. 
    Missouri 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Teterboro, LP 
    New Jersey 
    100 
      Jet Aviation Texas, Inc. 
    Texas 
    100 
      Jet Aviation/Palm Beach, Inc. 
    Florida 
    100 
      Jet Professionals, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Jet-Pro PEO, LLC 
    Florida 
    100 
      Kylmar (Holdings) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
    100 
      Longreach Energy, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Material Service Resources Company, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Mediaware International Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
    100 
      Metro Machine Corp. 
    Virginia 
    100 
      Midwest Properties Sales, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      NASSCO Holdings Incorporated 
    Delaware 
    100 
      National Steel and Shipbuilding Company 
    Nevada 
    100 
      Newberry Holdings, LLC 
    Virginia 
    100 
      OOO Jet Aviation Vnukovo 
    Russia 
    100 
      Open Kernel Labs Pty Ltd 
    Australia 
    100 
      Page Europa Srl 
    Italy 
    100 
      Pagetel Sistem Muhendisligi Sanayi ve Ticaret Limited Sirketi 
    Turkey 
    100 
      Patriot I Shipping Corp. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Patriot II Shipping Corp. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Patriot IV Shipping Corp. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Plane 79, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Prodelin India Private Limited 
    India 
    100 
      Proyectos Prohumane Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
    100 
      Quincy Maritime Corporation III 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Santa Barbara Sistemas S.A. 
    Spain 
    100 
      Savannah Air Center, LLC 
    Georgia 
    100 
      Signal Solutions, LLC 
    Virginia 
    100 
      Southern Illinois Recovery, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      St. Marks Powder, Inc. 
    Delaware 
    100 
      Steyr Spezialfahrzeug AG de Venezuela, C.A. 
    Venezuela 
    100 
      Steyr-Daimler-Puch SSF de Venezuela, C.A. 
    Venezuela 
    100 
      Tecnologias Internacionales de Manufactura S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
    100 
      Vangent Servicios de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
    100 
      Vertex Antennentechnik GmbH 
    Germany 
    100 
      Vertex International Limited 
    United Kingdom 
    100 
      Weco, LLC 
    Delaware 
    100 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 5
 ex23-20141231.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Ex 23-2014.12.31 

Exhibit 23 
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  To the Board of Directors of General Dynamics Corporation: 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 333-101634, 333-107901, 333-116071, 333-139518, 333-159038, 333-159045, 333-181124, 333-186575 and 333-186578) on Forms S-8 of General Dynamics Corporation of our reports dated February 9, 2015, with respect to: 

the consolidated balance sheets of General Dynamics Corporation as of December 31, 2014 and 2013, and the related consolidated statements of earnings (loss), comprehensive income (loss), cash flows, and shareholders  equity for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2014, and 

the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2014, 
       
  which reports appear in the December 31, 2014 annual report on Form 10-K of General Dynamics Corporation.   
    
  /s/ KPMG LLP 
    
  McLean, Virginia  
  February 9, 2015 

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 6
 ex24-20141231.htm
 EXHIBIT 24

Ex 24-2014.12.31 

Exhibit 24 
  POWER  OF  ATTORNEY 
    
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENT, that each of the undersigned Directors of GENERAL DYNAMICS CORPORATION, a Delaware corporation, hereby constitutes and appoints each of PHEBE N. NOVAKOVIC, JASON W. AIKEN and GREGORY S. GALLOPOULOS as his true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign the 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K of General Dynamics Corporation, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto each said attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary as fully as to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, and hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorney-in-fact and agent or his substitute or substitutes may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned have hereunto set their hands this    
  day of February 2015. 

/s/ Mary T. Barra 
      
    /s/ Lester L. Lyles 
      Mary T. Barra 
      
    Lester L. Lyles 

/s/ Nicholas D. Chabraja 
      
    /s/ James N. Mattis 
      Nicholas D. Chabraja 
      
    James N. Mattis 

/s/ James S. Crown 
      
    /s/ Phebe N. Novakovic 
      James S. Crown 
      
    Phebe N. Novakovic 

/s/ Rudy F. deLeon 
      
    /s/ William A. Osborn 
      Rudy F. deLeon 
      
    William A. Osborn 

/s/ William P. Fricks 
      
    /s/ Laura J. Schumacher 
      William P. Fricks 
      
    Laura J. Schumacher 

/s/ John M. Keane 
      
    /s/ Robert Walmsley 
      John M. Keane 
      
    Robert Walmsley 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 ex311-20141231.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Ex 31.1-2014.12.31 

Exhibit 31.1 
  CERTIFICATION BY CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Phebe N. Novakovic, certify that: 
           1) 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of General Dynamics Corporation; 
              2) 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3) 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4) 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have: 
              a. 
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared; 
              b. 
    designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c. 
    evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d. 
    disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
     
           5) 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors: 
              a. 
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b. 
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/ Phebe N. Novakovic 
        
    Phebe N. Novakovic 
        
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

February 9, 2015 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 ex312-20141231.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Ex 31.2-2014.12.31 

Exhibit 31.2 
  CERTIFICATION BY CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Jason W. Aiken, certify that: 
           1) 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of General Dynamics Corporation; 
              2) 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3) 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4) 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and we have: 
              a. 
    designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared; 
              b. 
    designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c. 
    evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d. 
    disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
     
           5) 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors: 
              a. 
    all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b. 
    any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
                      
    /s/ Jason W. Aiken 
        
    Jason W. Aiken 
        
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

February 9, 2015    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 ex321-20141231.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Ex 32.1-2014.12.31 

Exhibit 32.1 
  CERTIFICATION BY CEO PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
    
  In connection with the annual report of General Dynamics Corporation (the Company) on Form 10-K for the year ended   December 31, 2014  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, Phebe N. Novakovic, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge: 
    
           1) 
    the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
              2) 
    the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/ Phebe N. Novakovic 
        
    Phebe N. Novakovic 
        
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 

February 9, 2015    
    
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 ex322-20141231.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

Ex 32.2-2014.12.31 

Exhibit 32.2 
  CERTIFICATION BY CFO PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
    
  In connection with the annual report of General Dynamics Corporation (the Company) on Form 10-K for the year ended   December 31, 2014  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the Report), I, Jason W. Aiken, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to my knowledge: 
    
           1) 
    the Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
              2) 
    the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/  Jason W. Aiken 
        
    Jason W. Aiken 
        
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

February 9, 2015    
    
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 gd-20141231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 gd-20141231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 gd-20141231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 gd-20141231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 gd-20141231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 gd-20141231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

