<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20080227_10-K_edgar_data_64803_0001193125-08-040019_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>1515628</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>464986</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>0</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>831780</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>0</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>0</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>63</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-08-040019.hdr.sgml : 20080227
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20080227153336
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-08-040019
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		12
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20071229
FILED AS OF DATE:		20080227
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20080227

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			CVS CAREMARK CORP
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000064803
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-DRUG STORES AND PROPRIETARY STORES [5912]
		IRS NUMBER:				050494040
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-01011
		FILM NUMBER:		08646450

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE CVS DR.
		CITY:			WOONSOCKET
		STATE:			RI
		ZIP:			02895
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4017651500

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE CVS DR.
		CITY:			WOONSOCKET
		STATE:			RI
		ZIP:			02895

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CVS/CAREMARK CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	20070322

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	CVS CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19970128

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MELVILLE CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 AEwuPGbfGlcvVUKTdYzK4nCCOdobjZaFQw3Wh7jPU7Z7WAcqr+Y+293u+ymnMSWh
 DaA4Q2Hwpvod2oN/iN4+lw==

 0001193125-08-040019.txt : 20080227

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

            UNITED STATES        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        Washington, D.C. 20549              
   FORM 10-K        
    For the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007      OR       
    For the transition period from                to               
     Commission file number 001-01011       CVS CAREMARK CORPORATION        (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)                  

Delaware   
     
   050494040    
 
     (State or other jurisdiction of       incorporation or organization)    
     
     (I.R.S. Employer       Identification No.)     

One CVS Drive       Woonsocket, Rhode Island    
     
   02895    
 
   (Address of principal executive offices)   
     
   (Zip Code)    
     (401) 765-1500        (Registrant s telephone number, including area code)        Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Exchange Act:        

Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share   
     
   New York Stock Exchange    
 
   Title of each class   
     
   Name of each exchange on which registered    
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Exchange Act: None    
            Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.        Yes          No           Indicate by check
mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.        Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes          No           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  [X]      Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, or a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of  large accelerated filer, 
 accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.      Large accelerated
filer                 Accelerated filer                   Non-accelerated filer           (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) Smaller reporting company           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes          No           The aggregate market value of the registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $53,375,286,000
as of June 29, 2007, based on the closing price of the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange. For purposes of this calculation, only executive officers and directors are deemed to be the affiliates of the registrant.      As of February 21, 2008, the registrant had 1,431,879,000 shares of common stock issued and outstanding.                 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Filings made by companies with the Securities and Exchange
Commission sometimes  incorporate information by reference.  This means that the company is referring you to information that was previously filed or is to be filed with the SEC, and this information is considered to be part of the filing
you are reading. The following materials are incorporated by reference into this Form 10-K:       

Information contained on pages 18 through 68, and pages 70 through 71 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007 is
incorporated by reference in our response to Items 7, 8 and 9 of Part II.          

Information contained in our Proxy Statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders is incorporated by reference in our response to Items 10 through 14 of Part
III.                  

Table of Contents  

TABLE OF CONTENTS        

Part I   

Page    
 
    Item 1:   

Business   
      
  3   
 
    Item 1A:   

Risk Factors   
      
  19   
 
    Item 1B:   

Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  22   
 
    Item 2:   

Properties   
      
  23   
 
    Item 3:   

Legal Proceedings   
      
  25   
 
    Item 4:   

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  28   

Executive Officers of the Registrant     
      
  29   
 
     Part II    

Item 5:   

Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   
      
  30   
 
    Item 6:   

Selected Financial Data   
      
  32   
 
    Item 7:   

Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  32   
 
    Item 7A:   

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   
      
  33   
 
    Item 8:   

Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  33   
 
    Item 9:   

Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure   
      
  33   
 
    Item 9A:   

Controls and Procedures   
      
  34   
 
    Item 9B:   

Other Information   
      
  34   
 
     Part III    

Item 10:   

Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant   
      
  35   
 
    Item 11:   

Executive Compensation   
      
  35   
 
    Item 12:   

Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters   
      
  35   
 
    Item 13:   

Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence   
      
  35   
 
    Item 14:   

Principal Accountant Fees and Services   
      
  35   
 
     Part IV    

Item 15:   

Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules    
      
  36   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
  42   

Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts    
      
  44   

Signatures    
      
  45   
       
   2   

Table of Contents  

    PART I        

Item 1.   
   Business          Overview       CVS Caremark Corporation ( CVS Caremark , the  Company ,  we  or  us ) is
the largest provider of prescriptions and related healthcare services in the United States. We fill or manage more than one billion prescriptions annually. As a fully integrated pharmacy services company, we drive value for our customers by
effectively managing pharmaceutical costs and improving healthcare outcomes through our approximately 6,200 CVS/pharmacy      retail stores; our pharmacy benefit management, mail order and
specialty pharmacy division, Caremark Pharmacy Services; our retail-based health clinic subsidiary, MinuteClinic     ; and our online pharmacy, CVS.com     . We currently operate two business segments: Retail Pharmacy and Pharmacy Services. Our business segments are operating units that offer different products and services and require distinct technology and marketing
strategies.       The Caremark Merger       Effective
March 22, 2007, we closed our merger with Caremark Rx, Inc. ( Caremark ). Following the Caremark Merger, we changed our name to  CVS Caremark Corporation.       We believe CVS and Caremark are complementary companies and the merger is expected to yield benefits for health plan sponsors through more effective cost-management solutions and innovative programs and for consumers
through expanded choice, improved access and more personalized services. We also believe we can operate the combined companies more efficiently than either company could have operated on its own. In that regard, the merger has enabled us to achieve
significant synergies from purchasing scale and operating efficiencies. Purchasing synergies are largely comprised of purchase discounts and/or rebates obtained from generic and brand name drug manufacturers and cost efficiencies obtained from our
retail pharmacy networks. Operating synergies include decreases in overhead expense, increases in productivity and efficiencies obtained by eliminating excess capacity, decreases in prescription dispensing costs and other benefits made possible by
combining complementary operations.      Over the longer term, we expect the Caremark Merger will also create significant incremental revenue opportunities.
These opportunities are expected to be derived from a variety of new programs and benefit designs that leverage our client relationships, our integrated information systems and the personal interaction of our more than 20,000 pharmacists, nurse
practitioners and physician assistants with the millions of consumers who shop our stores on a daily basis. Examples of these programs include new prescription compliance and persistency programs, enhanced disease management programs, new ExtraCare
card programs for plan beneficiaries, increased use of MinuteClinics by plan beneficiaries and flexible fulfillment options that afford plan beneficiaries the opportunity to pick-up maintenance medications in-store. While certain of these programs
will commence in 2008, many are in their formative stage and require significant information system enhancements as well as changes in work processes. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the timing of the implementation of, or the amount of
incremental revenues associated with, these kinds of programs.       Retail Pharmacy Segment       As of December 29, 2007, the Retail Pharmacy Segment included 6,245 retail drugstores, of which 6,164 operated
a pharmacy, our online retail website, CVS.com      and our retail healthcare clinics. The retail drugstores are located in 40 states and the District of Columbia operating under the CVS      or CVS/pharmacy      names. We currently operate in 77 of the top 100 U.S. drugstore markets and hold the number one or number two market
share in 58 of these markets. Overall, we hold the number one or number two market share position in 75% of the markets in which our retail drugstores operate. CVS/pharmacy stores sell prescription drugs and a wide assortment of general merchandise,
including over-the-counter drugs, beauty products and cosmetics, photo finishing, seasonal merchandise, greeting cards and convenience foods, which we refer to as  front store  products. Existing stores generally range in size from
approximately 8,000 to 18,000 square feet, although most new stores range in size from approximately 10,000 to 13,000 square feet and typically include a drive-thru pharmacy. During fiscal 2007, we filled approximately 528 million retail
prescriptions, or approximately 17% of the U.S. retail pharmacy market.         
   3   

Table of Contents  

   As of December 29, 2007, we operated 462 retail healthcare
clinics in 25 states under the MinuteClinic      name, of which 437 are located within CVS retail drugstores. The clinics utilize nationally recognized medical protocols to diagnose and treat
minor health conditions and are staffed by board-certified nurse practitioners and physician assistants.       Our Strategy ~  Our goal is to be the
easiest pharmacy retailer for customers to use. We believe that ease of use means convenience for the time-starved customer. As such, our operating strategy is to provide a broad assortment of quality merchandise at competitive prices using a retail
format that emphasizes service, innovation and convenience (easy-to-access, clean, well-lit and well stocked). One of the keys to our strategy is technology, which allows us to focus on constantly improving service and exploring ways to provide more
personalized product offerings and services. We believe that continuing to be the first to market with new and unique products and services, using innovative marketing and adjusting our mix of merchandise to match our customers  needs and
preferences is very important to our ability to continue to improve customer satisfaction.       Our Products ~  A typical CVS/pharmacy store sells
prescription drugs and a wide assortment of high-quality, nationally advertised brand name and private label merchandise. Front store categories include over-the-counter drugs, beauty products and cosmetics, film and photo finishing services,
seasonal merchandise, greeting cards and convenience foods. We purchase our merchandise from numerous manufacturers and distributors. We believe that competitive sources are readily available for substantially all of the products we carry and the
loss of any one supplier would not have a material effect on the business. Consolidated net revenues by major product group are as follows:       

(1)  
  Percentages are estimates based on store point-of-sale data.         Pharmacy ~  Pharmacy revenues represented 67.8% of Retail Pharmacy revenues in 2007, compared to 68.4% in
2006, and 68.6% in 2005. We believe that our pharmacy operations will continue to represent a critical part of our business due to our ability to attract and retain managed care customers, favorable industry trends (e.g., an aging American
population consuming a greater number of prescription drugs, pharmaceuticals being used more often as the first line of defense for managing illness) the proliferation of new pharmaceutical products, a new federally funded prescription drug benefit,
which was promulgated on January 1, 2006 as part of the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 ( MMA ) and our on going program of purchasing customer lists from independent pharmacies. We believe our
pharmacy business benefits from our investment in both people and technology. Given the nature of prescriptions, people want their prescriptions filled accurately and ready when promised, by professional pharmacists using the latest tools and
technology. As such, our Pharmacy Service Initiative, which is designed to resolve potential problems at the point of drop-off that could delay a prescription being filled, has enabled us to improve our dispensing process resulting in improved
customer service ratings. Further evidencing our belief in the importance of pharmacy service is our continuing investment in technology, such as our Drug Utilization Review system that checks for harmful interactions between prescription drugs,
over-the-counter products, vitamins and herbal remedies; our Rx Connect system; our touch-tone telephone reorder system, Rapid Refill   TM   ; and our
online business, CVS.com.       Front Store ~  Front store revenues benefited from our strategy to
be the first to market with new and unique products and services, using innovative marketing and adjusting our mix of merchandise to match our customer s needs and preferences. For example, we were the first retail pharmacy to market with a
digital photo solution throughout our chain, including being the first to offer printing from digital camera phones, the ability to upload digital photos to CVS.com and have them available for in store pickup the following day, and the first to
offer a one-time-use digital camera. A key component of our front store strategy is our ExtraCare      card program, which is helping us continue to build our loyal customer base. In addition,
ExtraCare is one of the largest and most successful retail loyalty programs in the United States. ExtraCare allows us to balance our marketing efforts so we can reward our best customers by providing them automatic sale prices, customized coupons,
ExtraBucks   TM    rewards and other benefits. Another component of our front store strategy is our unique product offerings, which include a full range
of high-quality CVS brand products that are only available through CVS. We currently carry over 2,100 CVS brand and proprietary brand products, which accounted for approximately 14% of our front store revenues during 2007.         
   4   

Table of Contents  

    Store Development ~  The addition of new stores has played, and will continue to play, a major role in our
continued growth and success. Our store development program focuses on three areas: entering new markets, adding stores within existing markets and relocating stores to more convenient, freestanding sites. During 2007, we opened 139 new stores,
relocated 136 stores and closed 44 stores. During the last five years, we opened more than 1,300 new and relocated stores, and acquired more than 1,960 stores. Approximately two thirds of our store base was opened or significantly remodeled within
the last five years. During 2008, we expect to open between 300 and 325 new or relocated stores. We believe that continuing to grow our store base and locating stores in desirable geographic markets are essential components to compete effectively in
the current managed care environment. As a result, we believe that our store development program is an integral part of our ability to maintain our leadership position in the retail drugstore industry.       Information Systems ~  We have continued to invest in information systems to enable us to deliver a high
level of customer service while lowering costs and increasing operating efficiency. We were one of the first in the industry to introduce Drug Utilization Review technology that checks for harmful interactions between prescription drugs,
over-the-counter products, vitamins and herbal remedies. We were also one of the first in the industry to install a chain wide automatic prescription refill system, CVS Rapid Refill   TM   , which enables customers to order prescription refills 24 hours a day using a touch-tone telephone. In addition, we have installed Rx Connect, which reengineered the way our
pharmacists communicate and fill prescriptions. Further, we have implemented our Assisted Inventory Management system, which is designed to more effectively link our stores and distribution centers with suppliers to speed the delivery of merchandise
to our stores in a manner that both reduces out-of-stock positions and lowers our investment in inventory. Most recently we rolled-out Visible Improvement in Profits, Execution and Results, a transaction monitoring application designed to mitigate
inventory losses attributable to process deficiencies or fraudulent behavior by providing visibility to all transactions processed through our point-of-sale systems. In addition, we operate distribution centers with fully integrated technology
solutions for storage, product retrieval and order picking.       Customers ~  Managed care and other third party plans accounted for 95% of our 2007
pharmacy revenues. Since our revenues relate to numerous payors, including employers and managed care organizations, the loss of any one payor should not have a material effect on our business. No single customer accounts for 10% or more of our
total revenues. We also fill prescriptions for many government funded programs, including State Medicaid plans and Medicare Part D drug plans.       Seasonality ~  The majority of our revenues, particularly pharmacy revenues, are generally not seasonal in nature. However, front store revenues tend to be higher during the December holiday season. For additional information, we
refer you to the Note  Quarterly Financial Information  on page 68 in our Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007.       Competition ~  The retail drugstore business is highly competitive. We believe that we compete principally on the basis of: (i) store location and convenience, (ii) customer service and satisfaction, (iii) product
selection and variety and (iv) price. In each of the markets we serve, we compete with independent and other retail drugstore chains, supermarkets, convenience stores, pharmacy benefit managers and other mail order prescription providers,
discount merchandisers, membership clubs, health clinics and Internet pharmacies.         
   5   

Table of Contents  

    Pharmacy Services Segment       The Pharmacy Services business provides a full range of prescription benefit management ( PBM ) services
including mail order pharmacy services, specialty pharmacy services, plan design and administration, formulary management and claims processing. Our customers are primarily employers, insurance companies, unions, government employee groups, managed
care organizations and other sponsors of health benefit plans and individuals throughout the United States. In addition, through our SilverScript Insurance Company ( SilverScript ) subsidiary, we are a national provider of drug benefits to
eligible beneficiaries under the Federal Government s Medicare Part D program. Our specialty pharmacies support individuals that require complex and expensive drug therapies. Our pharmacy services business operates a national retail pharmacy
network with over 60,000 participating pharmacies (including CVS/pharmacy stores). We also provide health management programs, which include integrated disease management for 27 conditions through our Accordant      health management offering. The majority of these integrated programs are accredited by the National Committee for Quality Assurance (the  NCQA ). Currently, the pharmacy services business operates under
the Caremark Pharmacy Services     , PharmaCare Management Services      and PharmaCare Pharmacy      names. As of December 29, 2007, the Pharmacy Services segment operated 56 retail specialty pharmacy stores, 20 specialty mail order pharmacies and 9 mail service pharmacies located in 26 states and the District
of Columbia. Specialty pharmacy stores average 2,000 square feet in size and sell prescription drugs and a limited assortment of front store items such as alternative medications, homeopathic remedies and vitamins.       Our Strategy ~  Our business strategy centers on providing innovative pharmaceutical solutions and quality customer service in order to enhance clinical outcomes
for the participants in our customers  health benefit plans while assisting our customers in better managing their overall healthcare costs. We believe that our focus on management of our customers  overall healthcare costs, our mail
service, specialty pharmaceutical and health management expertise and the breadth and quality of our product and service offerings (which are expected to be significantly enhanced as a result of the Caremark Merger) distinguish us from many of our
competitors.       Our Services ~  The PBM services we provide for our customers involve the design and administration of programs aimed at reducing the
cost and improving the safety, effectiveness and convenience of prescription drug use.       Plan Design and Administration ~  Our customers sponsor
pharmacy benefit plans which facilitate the ability of eligible participants in these plans to receive medications prescribed by their physicians. We assist our customers in designing pharmacy benefit plans that minimize the costs to the customer
while prioritizing the welfare and safety of the customer s participants. We also administer these benefit plans for our customers and assist them in monitoring the effectiveness of these plans through frequent, informal communications as well
as through a formal annual customer review.      We make recommendations to our customers encouraging them to design benefit plans promoting the use of the
lowest cost, most clinically appropriate drug, including generics when available. We believe that we help our customers control costs by recommending plans that encourage the use of generic equivalents of brand name drugs when such equivalents are
available. Our customers also have the option, through plan design, to further lower their pharmacy benefit plan costs by setting different participant payment levels for different products on our drug lists.       Formulary Development ~  We utilize an independent panel of doctors, pharmacists and other medical experts, referred to as our Pharmacy and Therapeutics Committee,
to select drugs that meet the highest standards of safety and efficacy for inclusion on our drug lists. Our drug lists provide recommended products in numerous drug classes to ensure participant access to clinically appropriate alternatives under
the customer s pharmacy benefit plan. To improve clinical outcomes for participants and customers, we conduct ongoing, independent reviews of all drugs, including, but not limited to, those appearing on the drug list and generic equivalent
products, as well as of our clinical programs.         
   6   

Table of Contents  

    Discounted Drug Purchase Arrangements ~  We negotiate with pharmaceutical manufacturers to obtain discounted
acquisition costs for many of the products on our drug lists, and the customers that choose to adopt our drug lists receive reduced costs from these negotiated discounts. The discounted drug purchase arrangements we negotiate typically provide for
our receiving discounts from established list prices in one, or a combination, of the following forms. These discounts may take the form of a direct discount at the time of purchase, a discount for prompt payment of invoices or, when products are
indirectly purchased from a manufacturer (e.g., through a wholesaler or retail pharmacy/chain), a retroactive discount, or rebate. We also receive additional discounts under our wholesale contracts if we exceed contractually-defined annual purchase
volumes. We record these discounts, regardless of their form, as a reduction of our cost of revenues.       Prescription Management Systems ~  We dispense
prescription drugs both directly, through our own pharmacies, and indirectly, through a network of third party retail pharmacies. All prescriptions, whether they are filled through one of our mail service pharmacies or through a pharmacy in our
retail network, are analyzed, processed and documented by our proprietary prescription management systems. These systems assist staff and network pharmacists in processing prescriptions by automating tests for various items, including, but not
limited to, plan eligibility, early refills, duplicate dispensing, appropriateness of dosage, drug interactions or allergies, over-utilization and potential fraud.       Mail Pharmacy Program ~  We currently operate 9 large, automated mail service pharmacies in the continental United States. Our customers or their physicians submit prescriptions, primarily for maintenance medications, to these
pharmacies via mail, telephone, fax or the Internet. We also operate a network of 20 smaller mail service specialty pharmacies located throughout the United States and used for delivery of advanced medications to individuals with chronic or genetic
diseases and disorders. Substantially all of the mail service specialty pharmacies have been accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations ( JCAHO ). Additionally, we operate a United States Food and Drug
Administration ( FDA ) regulated repackaging facility in which we repackage certain drugs into the most common prescription amounts dispensed from our automated mail service pharmacies. Our staff pharmacists review mail service
prescriptions and refill requests with the assistance of our prescription management systems. This review may involve communications with the prescribing physician and, with the physician s approval, can result in generic substitution,
therapeutic interchange or other actions to affect cost or to improve quality of treatment. In these cases, we inform participants about the changes made to their prescriptions.       CareCenter        Pharmacies ~  We also operate
a limited number of CareCenter pharmacies located at client sites, which provide participants with a convenient alternative for filling their prescriptions.       Retail Pharmacy Program  ~ Our retail pharmacy program typically allows customers to fill prescriptions at more than 60,000 pharmacies nationwide (including CVS/pharmacy stores). When a customer fills a prescription in a retail
pharmacy, the network pharmacist sends prescription data electronically to us from the point-of-sale. This data interfaces with our proprietary prescription management systems, which verify relevant customer data, including eligibility and
participant information, perform drug utilization review to determine clinical appropriateness and safety and confirm that the pharmacy will receive payment for the prescription.       Quality Assurance ~  We have adopted and implemented clinical quality assurance procedures as well as policies and procedures to help ensure regulatory compliance under our quality assurance programs. Each new
mail service prescription undergoes a sequence of safety and accuracy checks and is reviewed and verified by a registered pharmacist before shipment. We also analyze drug-related outcomes to identify opportunities to improve the quality of care.
      Health Management Programs ~  Our clinical services utilize advanced protocols and offer
customers convenience in working with healthcare providers and other third parties. Our AccordantCare      health management programs include integrated disease management, which includes over
20 diseases such as asthma, coronary artery disease, congestive heart failure, diabetes, hemophilia, rheumatoid arthritis and multiple sclerosis. The majority of these integrated programs are accredited by the NCQA.         
   7   

Table of Contents  

    Information Systems ~  We currently operate primary information systems platforms to support our PBM services,
which are supplemented by additional information systems to support our pharmacy operations. These information systems incorporate integrated architecture that centralizes the data generated from filling mail service prescriptions, adjudicating
retail pharmacy claims and fulfilling other customer service contracts.       Customers  ~ Our customers are primarily sponsors of health benefit plans
(employers, unions, government employee groups, insurance companies and managed care organizations) and individuals located throughout the United States. We dispense pharmaceuticals to eligible participants in benefit plans maintained by our
customers and utilize our information systems to perform safety checks, drug interaction screening and generic substitution. In addition, we are a national provider of drug benefits to eligible beneficiaries under the federal government s
Medicare Part D program. We generate substantially all of our net revenue from dispensing prescription drugs to eligible participants in benefit plans maintained by our customers. During the year ended December 29, 2007, we managed over
490 million prescriptions for individuals from over 4,000 organizations, and our largest customer, the Federal Employees Health Benefits Program, accounted for approximately 7% of our Pharmacy Services segment net revenue.      In 2005, we were approved by the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ( CMS ) to participate in the drug benefit added to the Medicare program through
Part D ( Medicare Drug Benefit ) of the MMA. We participate in the administration of the Medicare Drug Benefit through the provision of PBM services to our health plan clients and other clients that have qualified as Medicare Part D
prescription drug plans. Caremark also participates (i) by offering Medicare Part D pharmacy benefits through its subsidiary, SilverScript, which has been approved by CMS as a prescription drug plan under Medicare Part D in all regions of the
country, and (ii) by assisting employer, union and other health plan clients that qualify for the retiree drug subsidy available under Medicare Part D by collecting and submitting eligibility and/or drug cost data to CMS in order for them to
obtain the subsidy. In addition, PharmaCare, through a joint venture with Universal American Insurance Corp., also participates in the offering of Medicare Part D pharmacy benefits by affiliated entities of Universal American that have qualified as
Medicare Part D prescription drug plans. In February 2008, the Company and Universal American agreed to dissolve this joint venture at the end of the 2008 plan year and to divide responsibility for providing Medicare Part D services to the affected
Universal American plan members beginning with the 2009 plan year. The terms of this agreement are subject to regulatory approval.       Competition ~  We
believe the primary competitive factors in the industry include: (i) the ability to negotiate favorable discounts from drug manufacturers; (ii) the ability to negotiate favorable discounts from, and access to, retail pharmacy networks;
(iii) responsiveness to customers  needs; (iv) the ability to identify and apply effective cost management programs utilizing clinical strategies; (v) the ability to develop and utilize preferred drug lists; (vi) the ability
to market PBM products and services; (vii) the commitment to provide flexible, clinically-oriented services to customers; and (viii) the quality, scope and costs of products and services offered to customers and their participants. The
Pharmacy Services segment competes with a number of large, national PBM companies, including Medco Health Solutions, Inc. and Express Scripts, Inc. as well as many smaller local or regional PBMs. We also compete with several large health
insurers/managed care plans (e.g. Wellpoint, Aetna, CIGNA) and retail pharmacies, which have their own PBM capabilities, as well as with several other national and regional companies which provide services similar to ours.         
   8   

Table of Contents  

    Working Capital Practices       We fund the growth of our business through a combination of cash flow from operations, sale-leaseback transactions, commercial paper and long-term borrowings. For additional information on our working capital practices, we refer you to the
caption  Liquidity and Capital Resources  on page 28 in our Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007, which is incorporated by reference herein. The majority of our non-pharmacy revenues are in cash,
while managed care and other third party insurance programs, which typically settle in less than 30 days, represented approximately 98% of our pharmacy revenues in 2007. Our customer returns are not significant.       Associate Development       As of December 29, 2007, we employed
approximately 200,000 associates, which included more than 20,000 pharmacists and more than 1,000 nurse practitioners and physician assistants. In addition, approximately 80,000 were part-time employees who work less than 30 hours per week. To
deliver the highest levels of service to our customers, we devote considerable time and attention to our people and service standards. We emphasize attracting and training friendly and helpful associates to work in our stores, clinics and throughout
our organization.       Intellectual Property       We have
registered or applied to register a variety of trade names, service marks, trademarks and business licenses for use in our business. We regard our intellectual property as having significant value in both our segments. We are not aware of any facts
that could negatively impact our continuing use of any of our intellectual property.       Government Regulation of Healthcare Matters        Overview ~  As a participant in the healthcare industry, our retail and pharmacy services businesses are subject to federal and state laws and regulations that
govern the purchase, sale and distribution of prescription drugs and related services, including administration and management of prescription drug benefits. Many of our PBM clients, including insurers and managed care organizations
( MCOs ), are themselves subject to extensive regulations that affect the design and implementation of prescription drug benefit plans that they sponsor. The application of complex standards to the detailed operation of our business
creates areas of uncertainty. Moreover, regulation of the healthcare industry continues to evolve, and there are numerous proposed healthcare laws and regulations at the federal and state levels, many of which could adversely affect our business if
they are enacted. We are unable to predict what additional federal or state legislation or regulatory initiatives may be enacted in the future relating to our business or the healthcare industry in general, or what effect any such legislation or
regulations might have on us. Any failure or alleged failure to comply with applicable laws and regulations, or any adverse applications of, or changes in, the laws and regulations affecting our business, could have a material adverse effect on our
operating results and financial condition.      Among the existing federal and state laws and regulations that affect aspects of our business are the
following:       Anti-Remuneration Laws ~  Federal law prohibits, among other things, an entity from knowingly and willfully offering, paying, soliciting
or receiving, subject to certain exceptions and  safe harbors,  any remuneration to induce the referral of individuals or the purchase, lease or order (or the arranging for or recommending of the purchase, lease or order) of items or
services for which payment may be made under Medicare, Medicaid or certain other federal healthcare programs. A number of states have similar laws, some of which are not limited to services for which government-funded payment may be made. State laws
and exceptions or safe harbors vary and have been infrequently interpreted by courts or regulatory agencies. Sanctions for violating these federal and state anti-remuneration laws may include imprisonment, criminal and civil fines, and exclusion
from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored healthcare programs. The federal anti-remuneration law has been interpreted broadly by some courts, the Office of Inspector General (the  OIG ) within the United
States Department of Health and Human Services ( HHS ) and administrative bodies. Because of the federal statute s broad scope, HHS established certain safe harbor regulations that specify various practices that are protected from
criminal or civil liability. Safe harbors exist for certain discounts offered to purchasers, certain personal services arrangements, certain payments made by vendors to group purchasing organizations, in certain cases the provision of electronic
prescribing technology to physicians, and certain other  
       
   9   

Table of Contents  

transactions and relationships. A practice that does not fall within a safe harbor is not necessarily unlawful but may be subject to challenge by HHS.
     In April 2003, the OIG issued a Compliance Program Guidance for Pharmaceutical Manufacturers (the  OIG Guidance ). In the OIG Guidance, the OIG
identifies potential risk areas for pharmaceutical manufacturers and also discusses a number of traditional relationships between pharmaceutical manufacturers and PBMs, such as discount payments, service offerings and data sales, and recommends that
such relationships be structured wherever possible to fit within an applicable safe harbor.      The federal anti-remuneration law has been cited as a partial
basis, along with state consumer protection laws, for investigations and multi-state settlements relating to financial incentives provided by drug manufacturers to retail pharmacies in connection with product conversion programs. Additionally,
certain governmental entities have commenced investigations of companies in the pharmaceutical services industry and have identified issues concerning development of preferred drug lists, therapeutic substitution programs, pricing of pharmaceutical
products and discounts from prescription drug manufacturers.       Antitrust ~  Numerous lawsuits have been filed throughout the United States under
various state and federal antitrust laws by retail pharmacies against drug manufacturers challenging certain brand drug pricing practices. These suits allege, in part, that the pharmaceutical manufacturers offered, and we and certain other PBMs
knowingly accepted, rebates and discounts on purchases of brand-name prescription drugs in violation of the federal Robinson-Patman Act and the federal Sherman Act. The Robinson-Patman Act generally prohibits discriminatory pricing practices. The
Sherman Act generally prohibits contracts and combinations that unreasonably restrain trade or facilitate monopolization of any part of interstate commerce. An adverse outcome in any of these lawsuits could require defendant drug manufacturers to
provide the same types of discounts on pharmaceuticals to retail pharmacies and buying groups as are provided to PBMs and managed care entities, to the extent that their respective abilities to influence market share are comparable. This practice,
if generally followed in the industry, could impact the purchase discounts we negotiate for our business.      In addition, several lawsuits have been filed
against us and some of our PBM competitors by certain retail pharmacies and pharmacy-supported interest groups alleging that PBM practices relating to maintaining retail pharmacy networks constitute antitrust violations under the Sherman Act. To the
extent that we appear to have actual or potential market power in a relevant market, our business arrangements and practices may be subject to heightened scrutiny from an anti-competitive perspective and possible challenge by state or federal
regulators or private parties. See Item 3,  Legal Proceedings  for further information.       Comprehensive PBM Regulation ~  Legislation
seeking to regulate PBM activities in a comprehensive manner has been introduced or enacted in a number of states. This legislation varies in scope and often contains provisions that: (i) impose certain fiduciary duties upon PBMs to customers
and plan participants; (ii) require PBMs to remit to customers or their plan participants certain rebates, discounts and other amounts received by PBMs related to the sale of drugs; (iii) regulate product substitution and intervention;
and/or (iv) impose broad disclosure obligations upon PBMs to customers and their plan participants. To the extent states or other government entities enact legislation regulating PBMs that survive legal challenges to their enforceability, such
legislation could adversely impact our ability to conduct business on commercially reasonable terms in locations where the legislation is in effect.      In
addition, certain quasi-regulatory organizations, including the National Association of Boards of Pharmacy and the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ) have issued model regulations or may propose future regulations
concerning PBMs and/or PBM activities, and NCQA, the Utilization Review Accreditation Commission ( URAC ) or other credentialing organizations may provide voluntary standards regarding PBM activities. In 2007, for example, URAC finalized
PBM accreditation standards for PBMs serving the commercially insured market, and Caremark has been accredited as a PBM by URAC. URAC has stated that it also intends to develop standards for the Medicare and health plan markets. While the actions of
these quasi-regulatory organizations do not have the force of law, they may influence states to adopt their requirements or recommendations and influence customer requirements for PBM services. Moreover, any standards established by these
organizations could also impact our health plan customers and/or the services we provide to them.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

   In addition to state statutes and regulations, we are also subject to state common laws to the extent applied to PBMs
through judicial interpretation or otherwise. Potential common law claims could involve, for example, breach of fiduciary duty, constructive fraud, fraud or unjust enrichment. The application of these common laws to PBMs and/or PBM activities could
have an adverse impact on our ability to conduct business on commercially reasonable terms.       Consumer Protection Laws ~  The federal government and
most states have consumer protection laws that have been the basis for investigations, lawsuits and multi-state settlements relating to, among other matters, financial incentives provided by drug manufacturers to pharmacies in connection with
therapeutic substitution programs. See Item 3,  Legal Proceedings  for further information concerning a multi-state consumer protection settlement affecting Caremark.       Corporate Integrity Agreement  ~ In September 2005, Caremark s subsidiary, AdvancePCS (now known as CaremarkPCS, L.L.C.), entered into a settlement agreement with the federal government relating to certain
alleged PBM business practices, pursuant to which AdvancePCS agreed, among other things, to adhere to certain business practices pursuant to a consent order and to maintain a compliance program in accordance with a corporate integrity agreement for
a period of five years. Our PBM subsidiaries have agreed, with limited exceptions, to comply with the requirements of the corporate integrity agreement applicable to AdvancePCS.      The corporate integrity agreement requires that we maintain our current compliance program; complete additional training requirements; report and return any overpayments received from federal health care programs;
notify the OIG of any new investigations or legal proceedings initiated by a governmental entity involving an allegation of fraud or criminal conduct against us; engage an independent review organization to perform limited annual audits; and submit
regular compliance reports to the OIG. Failure to meet our obligations under the corporate integrity agreement could result in stipulated financial penalties. In addition, failure to comply with material terms could lead to exclusion of our PBM
business from participation in federal health care programs.       Customer Audit ~  We are subject to customer audits of our PBM services pursuant to
certain provisions in our customer contracts that grant audit rights. These contract provisions are customary in our PBM contracts, and the audits are typically conducted by or on behalf of our customers. Because some of our customer contracts are
with state or federal governments, audits of these agreements are often regulated by the federal or state agencies responsible for administering federal or state benefits programs maintained by our customers, including those which operate
prescription drug plans or Medicare Advantage organizations under the MMA. The audits generally focus on, among other things, compliance with the applicable terms of our customer contract and applicable legal requirements.       ERISA Regulation  ~ The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ), provides for comprehensive federal regulation of certain
employee pension and health benefit plans, including self-funded corporate health plans and certain other plans that contract with us to provide PBM services. In general, we assist plan sponsors in the administration of the prescription drug portion
of their health benefit plans, in accordance with the plan designs adopted by the plan sponsors. We do not believe that the conduct of our business subjects us to the fiduciary obligations of ERISA, except when we have specifically contracted with a
plan sponsor to accept limited fiduciary responsibility for the adjudication of initial prescription drug benefit claims and/or the appeals of denied claims under a plan. We and other PBMs have been named in lawsuits alleging that we act as a
fiduciary, as such term is defined by ERISA, with respect to health benefit plans and that we have breached certain fiduciary obligations under ERISA. See Item 3,  Legal Proceedings  for further information.      In addition to its fiduciary provisions, ERISA imposes civil and criminal liability on service providers to covered health plans and certain other persons, if certain
forms or excessive amounts of remuneration are paid or received. These provisions of ERISA are similar, but not identical, to the healthcare anti-remuneration statutes discussed elsewhere in this Government Regulation section, and they do not
contain the statutory and regulatory  safe harbor  exceptions included in other healthcare statutes. These provisions of ERISA are broadly written, and we cannot be certain of the extent to which they could be deemed applicable to the
conduct of our business.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

   The Department of Labor has recently published proposed regulations that could potentially create disclosure requirements
for service providers to ERISA plans regarding direct and indirect compensation and potential conflicts of interest. The proposed regulations are broadly written and are subject to public comment. We cannot be certain of the content of these
regulations if and when they are finalized or the extent to which they could be deemed applicable to our business.      State laws discussed in this Government
Regulation section that may be applicable to us or to plan sponsors that are our customers may be preempted in whole or in part by ERISA. However, the scope of ERISA preemption is uncertain and is subject to conflicting court rulings.       False Claims and Fraudulent Billing Statutes ~  A range of federal civil and criminal laws target false claims and fraudulent billing activities. One of the most
significant of these laws is the Federal False Claims Act, which prohibits the submission of a false claim or the making of a false record or statement in order to secure reimbursement from a government-sponsored program. Some states have passed
substantially similar acts. In recent years, federal and state governments have launched several initiatives aimed at uncovering practices that violate false claims or fraudulent billing laws. The Federal Deficit Reduction Act of 2005
( DRA ), for example, requires certain entities that receive or make annual Medicaid payments over a certain amount to provide their employees and certain contractors and agents with certain information regarding the federal and state
false claims acts, whistleblower protections, and the entity s processes for detecting and preventing fraud, waste and abuse. Claims under these laws may be brought either by the government or by private individuals on behalf of the government
through a  qui tam  or  whistleblower  action, as discussed in more detail elsewhere in this Government Regulation section.      In addition,
federal and state governments have commenced numerous investigations of various pharmaceutical manufacturers, PBMs, pharmacies and healthcare providers in recent years with respect to false claims, fraudulent billing and related matters. The federal
government has entered into settlement agreements with several companies in the pharmaceutical services industry following claims by the federal government that such parties violated the Federal False Claims Act by: (i) improperly marketing and
pricing drugs; (ii) overstating the average wholesale prices of products; (iii) paying illegal remuneration to induce the purchase of drugs; and/or (iv) failing to accurately report  best price  under the Medicaid program.
      FDA Regulation ~  The FDA generally has authority to regulate drug promotional information and materials that are disseminated by a drug
manufacturer or by other persons on behalf of a drug manufacturer. We operate a FDA-regulated repackaging facility in which we repackage certain drugs into the most common prescription quantities dispensed from our mail service pharmacies. The FDA
also may inspect facilities in connection with procedures implemented to effect recalls of prescription drugs.       Formulary Regulation ~  A number of
states have begun to regulate the administration of prescription drug benefits. For example, some states have passed laws mandating coverage for off-label uses of drug products where those uses are recognized in peer-reviewed medical journals or
reference compendia. Other states have enacted laws that regulate the development and use of formularies by insurers, MCOs and other third party payors. These laws have included requirements on the development, review and update of formularies, the
role and composition of pharmacy and therapeutics committees, the disclosure of formulary information to health plan members, and a process for allowing members to obtain non-preferred drugs without additional cost-sharing when they are medically
necessary and are determined to be clinically appropriate. Additionally, the NAIC has developed a model law, the  Health Carriers Prescription Drug Benefit Management Model Act,  that addresses formulary regulation issues for risk-bearing
entities regulated by state insurance commissioners. The MMA also regulates how formularies are developed for, and administered to, beneficiaries of the Medicare Drug Benefit. To the extent that such legislation would be applicable to our business,
increasing government regulation of formularies could significantly affect our ability to develop and administer formularies on behalf of our insurer, MCO and other customers.       Health Management Services Regulation ~  We provide customers with clinical services in the form of health management programs, and we employ nurses and other clinicians, where needed, to develop and implement
our health management programs. All states regulate the practice of medicine and the practice of nursing, and employees engaged in a professional practice must satisfy applicable state licensing requirements.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

    Managed Care Reform ~  Proposed legislation has been considered on both the federal and state level, and
legislation has been enacted in several states, aimed primarily at providing additional rights and access to drugs to individuals enrolled in managed care plans. This legislation may impact the design and implementation of prescription drug benefit
plans sponsored by our PBM health plan customers and/or the services we provide to them. Some of these initiatives would, among other things: (i) require that health plan members have greater access to drugs not included on a plan s
formulary; (ii) give health plan members the right to sue their health plans for malpractice if they have been denied care; and/or (iii) mandate the content of the appeals or grievance process when a health plan member is denied coverage.
Both the scope of the managed care reform proposals considered by Congress and state legislatures and reforms enacted by states to date vary greatly, and the scope of future legislation that may be enacted is uncertain.       Medicare Prescription Drug Benefit ~  The MMA created the Medicare Drug Benefit starting in January 2006. Medicare beneficiaries entitled to Medicare benefits
under Part A or enrolled in Medicare Part B are eligible for the Medicare Drug Benefit under Medicare Part D. The MMA also created a subsidy available to certain employer, union and other group plans that provide retiree coverage to Part D eligible
individuals that is at least equivalent to Part D coverage (the  retiree drug subsidy ). Regulations implementing the Medicare Drug Benefit were published beginning in January 2005 and include, without limitation, requirements relating to
developing and administering formularies, establishing pharmacy networks, processing and adjudicating claims at point of sale and compliance with electronic prescribing standards. Government rules and regulations, which continue to evolve, impact
the funding available for Medicare programs, PBM contracting arrangements with retail pharmacies, pharmaceutical manufacturers or other parties related to the Medicare Drug Benefit and other terms and conditions affecting the Medicare Part D
services we provide. For instance, the MMA-mandated risk corridor thresholds and the level of risk-sharing by the federal government will change in 2008, resulting in Part D sponsors, including SilverScript, assuming an increased level of drug cost
risk. Therefore, to the extent that SilverScript s actual drug costs are higher or lower than estimated in its bids for 2008 and subsequent years, the federal government will share a smaller portion of the losses or gains, respectively. During
2007, CMS promulgated rules and regulations impacting calculation of the retiree drug subsidy of Part D sponsors. In addition, regulations have been issued or proposed that would impact, beginning in 2009, whether the differential between the drug
price charged to Part D sponsors by a PBM and the drug price paid by the PBM to the dispensing pharmacy would constitute an administrative cost, rather than a drug cost, to the Part D sponsor for purposes of calculating reinsurance and risk corridor
subsidy payments by the government.       Network Access Legislation ~  A majority of states now have some form of legislation affecting the ability to
limit access to a pharmacy provider network or remove network providers. Certain  any willing provider  legislation may require us or our customers to admit a non-participating pharmacy if such pharmacy is willing and able to meet the
plan s price and other applicable terms and conditions for network participation. These laws vary significantly from state to state in regard to scope, requirements and application. ERISA plans and payors have challenged the application of such
laws on the basis of ERISA preemption. However, the scope of ERISA preemption is uncertain and is subject to conflicting court rulings. In addition, the MMA contains an  any willing provider  requirement for pharmacy participation in the
Medicare Drug Benefit, and CMS has interpreted this as requiring that a Medicare Part D prescription drug plan must, for each type of pharmacy in its Part D network, allow participation by any pharmacy that meets the applicable terms and conditions
for participation by that type of pharmacy that the plan has established. To the extent any state or federal any willing provider laws are determined to apply to us or to certain of our customers or to the pharmacy networks we manage for our PBM
customers, such laws could negatively impact the services and economic benefits achievable through a limited pharmacy provider network.      Some states also
have enacted  due process  legislation that may prohibit the removal of a provider from a pharmacy network except in compliance with certain procedures. Other state legislation prohibits days  supply limitations or copayment
differentials between mail service and retail pharmacy providers. In addition, under Medicare Part D, CMS requires that if a Part D sponsor offers a 90-day supply at mail, it must allow retail pharmacies to also offer a 90-day supply on the same
terms.       Pharmacy Licensure and Regulation ~  We are subject to state and federal statutes and regulations governing the operation of retail and mail
pharmacies, repackaging of drug products, wholesale distribution, dispensing of controlled substances and medical waste disposal. Federal statutes and regulations govern the labeling, packaging, advertising and adulteration of prescription drugs and
the dispensing of controlled substances. Federal controlled substance laws require us to register our pharmacies and our repackaging facility with the United States Drug Enforcement Administration and to comply with security, recordkeeping,
inventory control and labeling standards in order to dispense controlled substances.         
   13   

Table of Contents  

   We also are subject to certain federal and state laws affecting on-line pharmacies because we dispense prescription drugs
pursuant to refill orders received through our Internet websites, among other methods. Several states have proposed new laws to regulate on-line pharmacies, and federal regulation of on-line pharmacies by the FDA or another federal agency has also
been proposed.      Other statutes and regulations may affect our mail service operations. For example, the Federal Trade Commission ( FTC ) requires
mail service sellers of goods generally to engage in truthful advertising, to stock a reasonable supply of the products to be sold, to fill mail service orders within thirty days and to provide clients with refunds when appropriate. In addition, the
United States Postal Service has statutory authority to restrict the transmission of drugs and medicines through the mail.      Our pharmacists are subject to
state regulation of the profession of pharmacy and employees engaged in a professional practice must satisfy applicable state licensing requirements.       Plan Design Legislation ~  Some states have enacted legislation that prohibits a health plan sponsor from implementing certain restrictive design features, and many states have introduced legislation to regulate various aspects of
managed care plans, including provisions relating to pharmacy benefits. For example, some states have adopted  freedom of choice  legislation, which provides that: (i) members of a plan may not be required to use network providers but
must instead be provided with benefits even if they choose to use non-network providers or (ii) a plan participant may sue his or her health plan if care is denied. Various states have enacted, or have considered enacting, legislation regarding
plan design mandates, including legislation that prohibits or restricts therapeutic substitution, requires coverage of all drugs approved by the FDA or prohibits denial of coverage for non-FDA approved uses. Some states mandate coverage of certain
benefits or conditions. Such legislation does not generally apply to us, but it may apply to certain of our customers (generally, MCOs and health insurers). Other states have enacted legislation purporting to prohibit health plans not covered by
ERISA from requiring or offering members financial incentives for use of mail service pharmacies. Legislation imposing plan design mandates may apply to certain of our customers and could have the effect of limiting the economic benefits achievable
through PBM services we provide.       Privacy and Confidentiality Legislation ~  Many of our activities involve the receipt, use and disclosure by us of
confidential health information, including disclosure of the confidential information to a participant s health benefit plan, as permitted in accordance with applicable federal and state privacy laws. In addition, we use and disclose
de-identified data for analytical and other purposes. The Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 and the regulations issued thereunder (collectively  HIPAA ) impose extensive requirements on the way in which health
plans, healthcare providers, healthcare clearinghouses (known as  covered entities ) and their business associates use, disclose and safeguard protected health information ( PHI ), including requirements to protect the integrity,
availability and confidentiality of electronic PHI. HIPAA gives individuals the right to know how their PHI is used and disclosed, the right to access, amend and obtain information concerning certain disclosures of PHI. Covered entities, such as
pharmacies and health plans, are required to provide a written Notice of Privacy Practices to individuals that describes how the entity uses and discloses PHI, and how individuals may exercise their rights with respect to their PHI. For most uses
and disclosures of PHI other than for treatment, payment, healthcare operations or certain public policy purposes, HIPAA generally requires that covered entities obtain a valid written individual authorization. In most cases, use or disclosure of
PHI must be limited to the minimum necessary to achieve the purpose of the use or disclosure. Criminal penalties and civil sanctions may be imposed for failing to comply with HIPAA standards.      In addition to HIPAA, most states have enacted health care information confidentiality laws, which limit the disclosure of confidential medical information. These state
laws supersede HIPAA to the extent they are more protective of individual privacy than is HIPAA.      In addition to establishing privacy and security
standards for PHI, HIPAA established national standards for conducting certain healthcare transactions electronically (known as  standard transactions ), as well as national identifiers for employers and health care providers. The National
Provider Identifier ( NPI ) Rule requires that all health care providers that conduct standard transactions apply for and obtain an NPI, and that all covered entities use this NPI in any standard transaction where that health care
provider s identifier is required. This Rule will have a significant operational  
       
   14   

Table of Contents  

impact on our business in that all electronic pharmacy claims will have to reflect the pharmacy s NPI and, to the extent the prescriber is a covered
entity, the prescriber s NPI, instead of current identifiers such as the National Council for Prescription Drug Program numbers. CMS has stated that it will not impose penalties on covered entities through May 2008 if they deploy contingency
plans and have made reasonable and diligent efforts to become compliant with the Rule.      In response to concerns about identity theft, many states have
passed security breach notification laws, including laws requiring notification to consumers of security breaches involving personal information. These laws generally require an entity conducting business in the state to notify consumers when their
personal information has been, or is reasonably believed to have been, acquired by an unauthorized person. In some cases, the law applies only to unencrypted computerized information, but in others it applies to personal information in any form. In
addition to requiring notification to the affected individuals without unreasonable delay, many state laws also require notification to government agencies, such as the state attorney general or consumer protection agencies.       Reimbursement ~  A portion of our net revenue is derived directly from Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored healthcare programs, and we are therefore
subject to, among other laws and regulations, federal and state anti-remuneration laws, the Stark Law and/or federal and state false claims laws discussed elsewhere in this section. Sanctions for violating these federal and/or state laws may
include, without limitation, criminal and civil penalties and exclusion from participation in Medicare, Medicaid and other government healthcare programs. Also, we provide products and services to managed care entities that provide services to
beneficiaries of Medicare, Medicaid and other government-sponsored healthcare programs, as well as employers that qualify for the retiree drug subsidy.      The federal government and numerous state governments have given increased attention to how pharmaceutical manufacturers develop and report pricing information, which, in turn, is used in setting payments under the Medicare and Medicaid
programs. One element common to most payment formulas, Average Wholesale Price ( AWP ), has come under criticism for allegedly inaccurately reflecting prices actually charged and paid at the wholesale level. The calculation and reporting
of AWP have been the subject of investigations by federal and state governments and litigation brought against pharmaceutical manufacturers and data services that report AWP. We are not responsible for calculations, reports or payments of AWP;
however such investigations or lawsuits could impact our business because many of our customer contracts, pharmaceutical purchase agreements, retail network contracts and other agreements use AWP as a pricing benchmark. In October 2006, First
DataBank ( FDB ), one of two primary sources of AWP price reporting, announced that it had entered into a settlement agreement relating to its AWP reporting, subject to final court approval. Under the terms of the proposed settlement
agreement, FDB agreed to reduce the reported AWP of certain drugs by four percent and to discontinue the publishing of AWP at a future time. In May 2007, Medi-Span, the other primary source of AWP price reporting, entered into a similar settlement
agreement, also subject to final court approval. In January 2008, the court denied approval of the FDB and Medi-Span settlements as proposed, and the outcome of the pending litigation remains uncertain.      Under the MMA, the Average Sales Price ( ASP ), has replaced AWP as the basis for reimbursing physicians, and sometimes pharmacies, for outpatient prescription
drugs under Medicare Part B. For single source drugs, the payment will equal 106 percent of the lesser of: (i) the wholesale acquisition cost ( WAC ) of the product; or (ii) the ASP of the product. ASP is the weighted average of
a manufacturer s sales to all purchasers in a given quarter, after certain pricing adjustments such as discounts or rebates and excluding sales to certain government and other purchasers.      Further, the federal Medicaid rebate program requires participating drug manufacturers to provide rebates on all drugs purchased by state Medicaid programs.
Manufacturers of brand name products must provide a rebate equivalent to the greater of: (a) 15.1% of the Average Manufacturer Price ( AMP ) paid by wholesalers for products distributed to the retail pharmacy class of trade or
(b) the difference between AMP and the  best price  available to essentially any customer other than the Medicaid program, with certain exceptions. Investigations have been commenced by certain governmental entities that question
whether  best price  was properly calculated, reported and paid by the manufacturers to the Medicaid programs. We are not responsible for calculations, reports or payments of  best price  however, these investigations could
impact our ability to negotiate rebates from drug manufacturers.      During 2007, CMS issued a final rule implementing provisions under the DRA regarding
prescription drugs under the Medicaid program. Among other things, the rule defines AMP and  best price,  and specifies the items that must be included and excluded in the calculation of each ( AMP Rule ). Under the AMP Rule,
which became effective October 1, 2007, sales to mail pharmacies would be included in the calculation of AMP, but rebates and other discounts  
       
   15   

Table of Contents  

negotiated by PBMs in their capacity as PBMs would be excluded. The rule also implements the DRA provision establishing a new reimbursement formula for
generic drugs under Medicaid and establishes federal upper limits ( FULs ) for generics based on 250 percent of the lowest AMP in a given drug class. Although the AMP Rule is final, CMS has asked for public comments on the AMP and FUL
outlier provisions to assist it in fully considering the issues and developing policies, so changes to the AMP Rule or its interpretation could occur. In December 2007, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia preliminarily enjoined CMS
from implementing the AMP Rule to the extent such action affects Medicaid reimbursement rates for retail pharmacies and from posting online or disclosing any AMP data.      Certain state Medicaid programs only allow for reimbursement to pharmacies residing in the state or in a border state. While we believe that we can service our current Medicaid customers through our existing
pharmacies, there can be no assurance that additional states will not enact in-state dispensing requirements for their Medicaid programs. Some states have adopted legislation and regulations requiring that a pharmacy participating in the state
Medicaid program give the state the  best price  that the pharmacy makes available to any third party payor. These requirements are sometimes referred to as  most favored nation pricing  payment systems. Other states have enacted
 unitary pricing  legislation, which mandates that all wholesale purchasers of drugs within the state be given access to the same discounts and incentives. A number of states have also recently introduced legislation seeking to control
drug prices through various statutory limits, rebates or discounts extending to one or more categories of the state s population.      Changes in
reporting of AWP, or other adjustments that may be made regarding the reimbursement of drug payments by Medicaid and Medicare, could impact our pricing to customers and other payors and could impact our ability to negotiate discounts with
manufacturers, wholesalers, PBMs or retail pharmacies. In some circumstances, such changes could also impact the reimbursement that we receive from Medicare or Medicaid programs for drugs covered by such programs and from MCOs that contract with
government health programs to provide prescription drug benefits.       Reimportation ~  The MMA amended the Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act by providing that
the FDA should promulgate rules that would permit pharmacists and wholesalers to import prescription drugs from Canada into the United States under certain circumstances. However, the promulgation of such rules is subject to a precondition that the
FDA certify to Congress that such re-importation would not pose any additional risk to the public s health and safety and that it would result in a significant cost reduction. To date, the FDA has not provided such a certification. In the past,
under certain defined circumstances, the FDA has used its discretion to permit individuals and their physicians to bring into the U.S. small quantities of drugs for treatment of a patient s serious condition for which effective treatment is not
available in the U.S. In September 2006, Congress expanded this personal use policy in very specific circumstances to allow individuals to personally transport from Canada for their personal use a 90-day supply of any prescription drug, regardless
of availability in the U.S. The language does not allow purchases by mail order or via the Internet, and excludes biologics and controlled substances. The FDA continues to strongly oppose efforts to allow the widespread importation of drugs from
Canada and elsewhere, citing concerns that such activities undermine the FDA s ability to oversee the quality and safety of the nation s drug supply. If the FDA changes its position and permits the broader importation of drugs from Canada
in the future or if new legislation or regulations permit the importation of drugs from the European Union or other countries in the future, our pharmacy services could be impacted.       Self-Referral Laws ~  The federal law commonly known as the  Stark Law  prohibits a physician from referring Medicare or Medicaid beneficiaries for  designated health services  (which
include, among other things, outpatient prescription drugs, home health services and durable medical equipment and supplies) to an entity with which the physician or an immediate family member of the physician has a  financial
relationship  and prohibits the entity receiving a prohibited referral from presenting a claim to Medicare or Medicaid for the designated health service furnished under the prohibited referral. Possible penalties for violation of the Stark Law
include denial of payment, refund of amounts collected in violation of the statute, civil monetary penalties and Medicare and Medicaid program exclusion. The Stark Law contains certain statutory and regulatory exceptions for physician referrals and
physician financial relationships, including certain physician consulting arrangements, fair market value purchases by physicians and the provision of electronic prescribing technology to physicians.      State statutes and regulations also prohibit payments for the referral of individuals by physicians to healthcare providers with whom the physicians have a financial
relationship. Some of these state statutes and regulations apply to services reimbursed by governmental as well as private payors. Violation of these laws may result in prohibition of payment for services rendered, loss of pharmacy or healthcare
provider licenses, fines and criminal penalties. The laws  
       
   16   

Table of Contents  

and exceptions or safe harbors may vary from the federal Stark Law and vary significantly from state to state. The laws are often vague, and, in many cases,
have not been interpreted by courts or regulatory agencies.       State Insurance Laws ~  Fee-for-service prescription drug plans and our PBM service
contracts, including those in which we assume certain risk under performance guaranties or similar arrangements, are generally not subject to insurance regulation by the states. However, if a PBM offers to provide prescription drug coverage on a
capitated basis or otherwise accepts material financial risk in providing pharmacy benefits, laws and regulations in various states may be applicable. Such laws may require that the party at risk become licensed as an insurer, establish reserves or
otherwise demonstrate financial viability. Laws that may apply in such cases include insurance laws and laws governing MCOs and limited prepaid health service plans.      Pursuant to the MMA, SilverScript must be licensed as a risk-bearing entity under state laws or have obtained a waiver of the licensing requirement from CMS. SilverScript received a license in 2006 from
the Tennessee Department of Commerce and Insurance to operate as a health insurance company under the applicable laws and regulations of the State of Tennessee. SilverScript also has filed expansion applications for
licensure as an insurance company in other jurisdictions where it may seek to do business, and to date SilverScript has received licenses to operate as an insurance company in 41 other states and the District of Columbia and has maintained
waivers of such licensing requirements in all remaining states in accordance with CMS requirements. As a licensed insurance company, SilverScript is subject to various state insurance regulations that generally require, among other things,
maintenance of capital and surplus requirements, review of certain material transactions and the filing of various financial and operational reports. If SilverScript is unable either to acquire all necessary insurance licenses or to maintain waivers
of such licensing requirements, there may be a materially adverse impact on SilverScript s ability to participate in the Medicare Drug Benefit as a prescription drug plan. Pursuant to the MMA, state insurance licensing, insurance
agent/broker licensure and solvency laws and regulations are generally applicable to prescription drug plans, but the application of other state laws to the Medicare Drug Benefit are generally preempted by Medicare Part D to the extent that Medicare
Part D regulates the issue.      Some states have laws that prohibit submitting a false claim or making a false record or statement in order to secure
reimbursement from an insurance company. These state laws vary, and violation of them may lead to the imposition of civil or criminal penalties. Additionally, several states have passed legislation governing the prompt payment of claims that
requires, among other things, that health plans and payors pay claims within certain prescribed time periods or pay specified interest penalties. These laws vary from state to state in regard to scope, requirements and application, and it is not
clear the extent to which they may apply to our customers or to us. Certain health plans and payors may be exempt from such laws on the basis of ERISA preemption, but the scope of ERISA preemption is unclear.       State Prescription Drug Assistance Programs ~  Many states have established or modified their drug assistance programs for the elderly so that they constitute
qualified state pharmacy assistance programs ( SPAPs ) that supplement the Medicare Drug Benefit. Payments by qualified SPAPs on behalf of a Medicare Part D enrollee are treated under Medicare Part D as if they were made by the enrollees
themselves, thereby counting towards the enrollees  true out-of-pocket costs and helping them qualify for catastrophic coverage sooner. Prescription drug plans under Medicare Part D are required to coordinate benefits with SPAPs, including
allowing SPAPs to subsidize the Medicare Part D premiums of their members and/or their Medicare Part D cost sharing. Some qualified SPAPs have also received permission from CMS to auto-assign their enrollees that do not choose their own Medicare
Part D plans into Medicare Part D plans. We have been and continue to be in active discussions with SPAPs to coordinate benefits with our Medicare Drug Benefit offerings and, where applicable, enrollment by SPAP members into our prescription drug
plan under Medicare Part D.       Telemarketing ~  Certain federal and state laws give the FTC and state attorneys general law enforcement tools to
regulate telemarketing practices. These laws may require disclosures of specific information, prohibit misrepresentations, limit when consumers may be called, require transmission of Caller ID information, prohibit certain abandoned outbound calls,
prohibit unauthorized billing, set payment restrictions for the sale of certain goods and services and require the retention of specific business records.       Third Party Administration and Other State Licensure Laws ~  Many states have licensure or registration laws governing certain types of administrative organizations, such as preferred provider organizations, third party administrators
and companies that provide utilization review services. Several states also have licensure or registration laws governing the organizations that provide or administer consumer card programs (also known as cash card or discount card programs). The
scope of these laws differs significantly from state to state, and the application of such laws to our activities often is unclear.         
   17   

Table of Contents  

    Whistleblower Statutes ~  Certain federal and state laws, including the Federal False Claims Act, contain
provisions permitting the filing of  qui tam  or  whistleblower  lawsuits alleging violations of such laws. Whistleblower provisions allow private individuals to bring lawsuits on behalf of the federal or state government alleging
that the defendant has defrauded the government, and there is generally no minimum evidentiary or legal threshold required for bringing such a lawsuit. These lawsuits are typically filed under seal with the applicable federal or state enforcement
authority, and such authority is required to review the allegations made and to determine whether it will intervene in the lawsuit and take the lead in the litigation. If the government intervenes in the lawsuit and prevails, the whistleblower
plaintiff filing the initial complaint may share in any settlement or judgment. If the government does not intervene in the lawsuit, the whistleblower plaintiff may pursue the action independently. Because a  qui tam  lawsuit typically is filed
under seal pending a government review of the allegations, the defendant generally may not be aware of the lawsuit until the government determines whether or not it will intervene or until the lawsuit is otherwise unsealed, a process which may take
years. See Item 3,  Legal Proceedings,  for further information.      We believe that we are in material compliance with existing laws and
regulations applicable to our retail and PBM businesses. We have implemented standard operating procedures, internal controls and a compliance and integrity program designed to help ensure such compliance, and we monitor legislative and judicial
developments that could impact our business practices in an effort to ensure future compliance.      We can give no assurance, however, that our business,
financial condition and results of operations will not be materially adversely affected, or that we will not be required to materially change our business practices, based on: (i) future enactment of new healthcare or other laws or regulations;
(ii) the interpretation or application of existing laws or regulations, including the laws and regulations described in this Government Regulation section, as they may relate to our business or the retail or pharmacy services industry;
(iii) pending or future federal or state governmental investigations of our business or the pharmacy services industry; (iv) institution of government enforcement actions against us; (v) adverse developments in any pending  qui
tam  lawsuit against us, whether sealed or unsealed, or in any future  qui tam  lawsuit that may be filed against us; or (vi) adverse developments in other pending or future legal proceedings against us or affecting the pharmacy
services industry.         
   18   

Table of Contents  

    Available Information       CVS Caremark Corporation is a Delaware corporation. Our corporate office is located at One CVS Drive, Woonsocket, Rhode Island 02895, telephone (401) 765-1500. Our common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the trading
symbol  CVS.  General information about CVS Caremark is available through our website at  http://www.cvs.com . Our financial press releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission are available free of charge on the
investor relations portion of our website at  http://investor.cvs.com . In addition, the SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements and other information regarding issuers, such as the Company, that
file electronically with the SEC. The address of that website is  http://www.sec.gov .       

Item 1A.   
   Risk Factors         Our business is subject to various industry,
economic, regulatory and other risks and uncertainties. These risks include those described below and may include additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to us or that we currently deem to be immaterial.        Inability to realize the cost savings and other benefits of the Caremark Merger.        We may not be able to achieve all of the anticipated operating and cost synergies or long-term strategic benefits of the Caremark Merger. An inability to realize the full extent of, or any of, the anticipated benefits
of the merger could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations, which may affect the value of the shares of our common stock.        Efforts to reduce reimbursement levels and alter healthcare financing practices could adversely affect our businesses.        The continued efforts of health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, other PBM companies, government entities, and other third party payors to reduce prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates may impact our
profitability. In particular, increased utilization of generic pharmaceuticals (which normally yield a higher gross profit rate than equivalent brand named drugs), has resulted in pressure to decrease reimbursement payments to retail and mail order
pharmacies for generic drugs, causing a reduction in the generic profit rate. In addition, during the past several years, the U.S. healthcare industry has been subject to an increase in governmental regulation at both the federal and state levels.
Efforts to control healthcare costs, including prescription drug costs, are underway at the federal and state government levels. Changing political, economic and regulatory influences may affect healthcare financing and reimbursement practices. If
the current healthcare financing and reimbursement system changes significantly, the combined company s business, financial position and results of operations could be materially adversely affected.      On February 8, 2006, the President signed into law the DRA. The DRA seeks to reduce federal spending by altering the Medicaid reimbursement formula for multi-source
(i.e., generic) drugs. According to the Congressional Budget Office, retail pharmacies are expected to negotiate with individual states for higher dispensing fees to mitigate the adverse effect of these changes. These changes were expected to begin
to take effect in 2007 and to result in reduced Medicaid reimbursement rates for retail pharmacies. During 2007, CMS issued a final rule implementing the new reimbursement formula. Subsequent to issuance of this rule, a group of retail pharmacy
industry trade groups filed suit in Federal District Court seeking to enjoin CMS from implementing the rule. On December 14, 2007, the United States District Court for the District of Columbia preliminarily enjoined CMS from implementing the
final rule to the extent such action affects Medicaid reimbursement rates for retail pharmacies. As a result, implementation has been delayed indefinitely. Accordingly, the extent of any reductions and the impact on the Company cannot be determined
at this time.        The possibility of customer loss and/or the failure to win new business may adversely affect our business, financial position and
results of operations.        Our PBM business generates net revenues primarily by contracting with clients to provide prescription drugs and related
healthcare services to plan participants. PBM client contracts generally have terms approximating 3 years in duration.  
       
   19   

Table of Contents  

Accordingly, approximately one third of a PBM s customer base typically is subject to renewal each year, and therefore we face challenges in competing
for new business and retaining or renewing business. Although none of our PBM clients are expected to represent more than 10% of our Company s consolidated revenues in 2008, our top 10 clients are expected to represent approximately 33.2% of
such revenues in 2008. There can be no assurance that we will be able to win new business or secure renewal business on terms as favorable to the Company as the present terms. Accordingly, our failure to renew or win PBM business could adversely
affect our business, financial position and results of operations.        Risks related to the frequency and rate of the introduction of new prescription
drugs as well as generic alternatives to brand name prescription products.        The profitability of retail and mail order pharmacy businesses are
dependent upon the utilization of prescription drug products. Utilization trends are affected by the introduction of new and successful prescription pharmaceuticals as well as lower priced generic alternatives to existing brand name products.
Accordingly, a slowdown in the introduction of new and successful prescription pharmaceuticals and/or generic alternatives (the sale of which normally yield higher gross profit margins than brand name equivalents) could adversely affect our
business, financial position and results of operations.        Risks of declining gross margins in the PBM industry.        The PBM industry has been experiencing margin pressure as a result of competitive pressures and increased client demands for lower prices, enhanced service offerings
and/or higher service levels. In that regard, our Company maintains contractual relationships with generic pharmaceutical manufacturers and brand name pharmaceutical manufacturers that provide for purchase discounts and/or rebates on drugs dispensed
by pharmacies in our national retail network (including CVS/pharmacy stores) and by our mail order pharmacies (all or a portion of which may be passed on to clients). Manufacturer rebates often depend on a PBM s ability to meet contractual
market share or other requirements, including in some cases the placement of a manufacturer s products on the PBM s formularies. Competitive pressures in the PBM industry have caused Caremark and other PBMs to share with clients a larger
portion of rebates and/or discounts received from pharmaceutical manufacturers. In addition, changes in existing federal or state laws or regulations or the adoption of new laws or regulations relating to patent term extensions, purchase discount
and rebate arrangements with pharmaceutical manufacturers, or to formulary management or other PBM services could also reduce the discounts or rebates we receive. Accordingly, margin pressure in the PBM industry resulting form these trends could
adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.        Uncertainty regarding the impact of Medicare Part D may adversely
affect our business, financial position and our results of operations.        Since its inception in 2006, the Medicare Drug Benefit has resulted in
increased utilization and decreased pharmacy gross margin rates as higher margin business, such as cash and state Medicaid customers, migrated to Medicare Part D coverage. Further, as a result of the Medicare Drug Benefit, our PBM clients could
decide to discontinue providing prescription drug benefits to their Medicare-eligible members. If this occurs, the adverse effects of the Medicare Drug Benefit may outweigh any opportunities for new business generated by the new benefit. Since the
program continues to evolve, we are not yet able to assess the full impact that Medicare Part D will have on clients  decisions to continue to offer a prescription drug benefit to their Medicare-eligible members. In addition, if the cost and
complexity of the Medicare Drug Benefit exceed management s expectations or prevent effective program implementation or administration; if the government alters Medicare program requirements or reduces funding because of the
higher-than-anticipated cost to taxpayers of the MMA or for other reasons; if we fail to design and maintain programs that are attractive to Medicare participants; or if we are not successful in retaining enrollees, or winning contract renewals or
new contracts under the MMA s competitive bidding process, our Medicare Part D services and the ability to expand our Medicare Part D services could be materially and adversely affected, and our business, financial position and results of
operations may be adversely affected.        Changes in industry pricing benchmarks could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of
operations.        Contracts in the prescription drug industry, including Caremark s network contracts and its PBM and specialty client contracts,
generally use certain published benchmarks to establish pricing for prescription drugs. These benchmarks include AWP, ASP and WAC. Most of our PBM client contracts utilize the AWP standard. Further, most of the contracts governing the participation
of CVS stores in retail pharmacy networks also utilize the AWP standard.         
   20   

Table of Contents  

   Recent events, including the FDB and Medi-Span litigation described in the Government Regulation of Healthcare Matters
section, have raised uncertainties as to whether payors, pharmacy providers, PBMs and others in the prescription drug industry will continue to utilize AWP as it has previously been calculated or whether other pricing benchmarks will be adopted for
establishing prices within the industry.      Changes in reporting of AWP, or in the basis for calculating reimbursement proposed by the federal government and
certain states, and other legislative or regulatory adjustments that may be made regarding the reimbursement of payments for drugs by Medicaid and Medicare, could impact our pricing to customers and other payors and could impact our ability to
negotiate discounts with manufacturers, wholesalers, PBMs or retail pharmacies. In some circumstances, such changes could also impact the reimbursement that we receive from Medicare or Medicaid programs for drugs covered by such programs and from
MCOs that contract with government health programs to provide prescription drug benefits. In addition, it is possible that payors, pharmacy providers and PBMs will begin to evaluate other pricing benchmarks as the basis for contracting for
prescription drugs and PBM services in the future, and the effect of this development on the business of the Company cannot be predicted at this time.        The industries in which we operate are extremely competitive and competition could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.        Each of the retail pharmacy business and the PBM business currently operates in a highly competitive environment. As a pharmacy retailer, we compete with other drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers,
membership clubs, Internet companies and retail health clinics, as well as other mail order pharmacies and PBMs. In regard, many pharmacy benefit plans have implemented plan designs that mandate or provide incentives to fill maintenance medications
through mail order pharmacies. To the extent this trend continues, our retail pharmacy business could be adversely affected (although the effect of this would likely be mitigated by an increase in our own mail order business). In addition, some of
these competitors may offer services and pricing terms that we may not be willing or able to offer. Competition may also come from other sources in the future. As a result, competition could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position
and results of operations.      Competitors in the PBM industry include large national PBM companies, such as Medco Health Solutions, Inc. and Express Scripts,
Inc., as well as many local or regional PBMs. In addition, there are several large health insurers and managed care plans (e.g., Wellpoint, Aetna, CIGNA, UnitedHealthcare) and retail pharmacies (e.g., Walgreens, Longs and Rite Aid) which have their
own PBM capabilities as well as several other national and regional companies that provide some or all of the same services. Some of these competitors may offer services and pricing terms that we, even if the anticipated benefits of our merger are
realized in full, may not be able to offer. In addition, competition may also come from other sources in the future. As a result, competition could have an adverse effect on our business, financial position and results of operations.        Existing and new government legislative and regulatory action could adversely affect our business, financial position and results of operations.
       The PBM business and retail drugstore business are subject to numerous federal, state and local laws and regulations. See  Business  
Government Regulation of Healthcare Matters.  Changes in these regulations may require extensive system and operating changes that may be difficult to implement. Untimely compliance or noncompliance with applicable laws and regulations could
adversely affect the continued operation of our business, including, but not limited to: imposition of civil or criminal penalties; suspension of payments from government programs; loss of required government certifications or approvals; loss of
authorizations to participate in or exclusion from government reimbursement programs, such as the Medicare and Medicaid programs; or loss of licensure. The regulations to which we are subject include, but are not limited to: the laws and regulations
described in the Government Regulation of Healthcare Matters section; accounting standards; tax laws and regulations; laws and regulations relating to the protection of the environment and health and safety matters, including those governing
exposure to, and the management and disposal of, hazardous substances; and regulations of the FDA, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission, the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Consumer Product Safety Commission, as well as state regulatory
authorities, governing the sale, advertisement and promotion of products that we sell. In that regard, our business, financial position and results of operations could be affected by one or more of the following:       

federal and state laws and regulations governing the purchase, distribution, management, dispensing and reimbursement of prescription drugs and related services,
whether at retail or mail, and applicable licensing requirements;            
   21   

Table of Contents  

the effect of the expiration of patents covering brand name drugs and the introduction of generic products;          

the frequency and rate of approvals by the FDA of new brand named and generic drugs, or of over-the-counter status for brand name drugs;

FDA regulation affecting the retail or PBM industry;          

rules and regulations issued pursuant to the HIPAA; and other federal and state laws affecting the use, disclosure and transmission of health information, such as
state security breach laws and state laws limiting the use and disclosure of prescriber information;          

administration of the Medicare Drug Benefit, including legislative changes and/or CMS rulemaking and interpretation;          

government regulation of the development, administration, review and updating of formularies and drug lists;          

state laws and regulations establishing or changing prompt payment requirements for payments to retail pharmacies;          

impact of network access (any willing provider) legislation on ability to manage pharmacy networks;          

managed care reform and plan design legislation;          

insurance licensing and other insurance regulatory requirements applicable to offering a prescription drug plan in connection with the Medicare Drug Benefit; and

direct regulation of pharmacies or PBMs by regulatory and quasi-regulatory bodies.           Risks related to litigation and other legal proceedings.        Pharmacy services and retail pharmacy are highly
regulated and litigious industries. Our Company is currently subject to various litigation matters and legal proceedings. Resolution of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. As such we refer
you to Item 3.  Legal Proceedings  for additional information.        Efforts to reform the U.S. healthcare system may adversely affect our
financial performance        Congress periodically considers proposals to reform the U.S. healthcare system. These proposals may increase government
involvement in healthcare and regulation of PBM or pharmacy services, or otherwise change the way the combined company or its clients do business. Health plan sponsors may react to these proposals and the uncertainty surrounding them by reducing or
delaying purchases of cost control mechanisms and related services that the combined company would provide. The Company cannot predict what effect, if any, these proposals may have on its retail and pharmacy services businesses. Other legislative or
market-driven changes in the healthcare system that the Company cannot anticipate could also materially adversely affect the combined company s consolidated results of operations, consolidated financial position and/or consolidated cash flow
from operations.        The health of the economy in general and in the markets we serve could adversely affect our business and our financial results.
       Our business is affected by the economy in general including changes in consumer purchasing power, preferences and/or spending patterns. Our
ability to attract, hire and retain suitable pharmacists, management, nurse practitioners and physicians  assistants as well as establishing effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs is directly impacted by the economic
environment. Further, interest rate fluctuations and changes in capital market conditions may affect our ability to obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms and/or our ability to secure suitable store locations under acceptable terms.
     The foregoing is not a comprehensive listing and there can be no assurance that we have correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors
affecting the business. As such, we refer you to the  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  which includes our  Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements  at
the end of such section, on pages 18 through 36 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007, which is incorporated by reference.       

Item 1B.   
   Unresolved Staff Comments         No events have occurred which would
require disclosure under this Item.         
   22   

Table of Contents  

Item 2.   
   Properties         We lease most of our stores under long-term leases that
vary as to rental amounts, expiration dates, renewal options and other rental provisions. For additional information on the amount of our rental obligations for our leases, we refer you to the Note  Leases  on page 55 in our Annual Report
to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007.      As of December 29, 2007, we owned approximately 3.6% of our 6,245 CVS/pharmacy
drugstores. Net selling space for our retail drugstores increased to 56.5 million square feet as of December 29, 2007. Approximately two thirds of our store base was opened or significantly remodeled within the last five years.   
  We own 6 distribution centers located in Alabama, California, Rhode Island, South Carolina, Tennessee and Texas and lease 9 additional facilities located in Arizona,
Florida, Indiana, Michigan, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Texas and Virginia. The 15 distribution centers total approximately 10.4 million square feet as of December 29, 2007.      As of December 29, 2007, we owned 3 mail service pharmacies located in Alabama, Pennsylvania and Texas and leased 6 additional mail service pharmacies located in Arizona, Florida, Illinois, Pennsylvania and
Texas. We leased call centers located in Arizona, Missouri, Tennessee and Texas. As of December 29, 2007, we also had 20 specialty mail order pharmacies, of which we owned two, and 56 specialty pharmacy stores, which we leased. The specialty
mail order pharmacies and specialty pharmacy stores are located in 26 states.      Our FDA-regulated repackaging facility is located in Gurnee, Illinois.
     We own our corporate headquarters building located in Woonsocket, Rhode Island, which contains approximately 605,000 square feet. In addition, we lease
large corporate offices in Scottsdale, Arizona; Northbrook, Illinois and Irving, Texas.      In connection with certain business dispositions completed between
1991 and 1997, we continue to guarantee lease obligations for approximately 220 former stores. We are indemnified for these guarantee obligations by the respective purchasers. These guarantees generally remain in effect for the initial lease term
and any extension thereof pursuant to a renewal option provided for in the lease prior to the time of the disposition. For additional information, we refer you to the Note  Commitments   Contingencies  on page 61 in our Annual
Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007.      Management believes that its owned and leased facilities are suitable and
adequate to meet the Company s anticipated needs. At the end of the existing lease terms, management believes the leases can be renewed or replaced by alternate space.         
   23   

Table of Contents  

   Following is a breakdown by state of our retail and specialty pharmacy stores as well as our specialty mail order
pharmacy locations as of December 29, 2007:       
       
   24   

Table of Contents  

Item 3.   
   Legal Proceedings          

1.  
  In 2006, a number of shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed in the Tennessee state court and the Tennessee federal court against Caremark and various officers and directors of
Caremark containing allegations relating to Caremark s stock option granting practices. The cases brought in the Tennessee federal court were consolidated into one action in August 2006, and the consolidated action was voluntarily dismissed
without prejudice by the plaintiffs in March 2007. The cases brought in the Tennessee state court were also consolidated into one action in September 2006, and the plaintiffs amended their complaint to add CVS and its directors as defendants and to
allege class action claims. A stipulation of settlement was entered into by the parties in July 2007, which provided, among other things, that (i) the plaintiffs will dismiss the case and release the defendants from claims asserted in the
action, (ii) a temporary restraining order issued by the court in March 2007 will be vacated, (iii) the Company will agree to maintain for at least four years a number of corporate governance provisions relating to the granting, exercise
and disclosure of stock option awards and (iv) the defendants will not oppose plaintiffs  petition for an award of attorneys  fees and expenses not to exceed $7.5 million. As part of the settlement, the defendants specifically denied
any liability or wrongdoing with respect to all claims alleged in the litigation, including claims relating to stock option backdating, and stated that they entered into the settlement solely to avoid the distraction, burden and expense of the
pending litigation. The settlement was orally approved by the court, but it remains subject to final court approval. The settlement is also subject to a pending application for extraordinary appeal filed by plaintiffs  counsel relating to the
court s prior rulings concerning the settlement and the award of attorney s fees and expenses.         

2.  
  Caremark s subsidiary Caremark Inc. (now known as Caremark, L.L.C.) is a defendant in a qui tam lawsuit initially filed by a relator on behalf of various state and federal
government agencies in Texas federal court in 1999. The case was unsealed in May 2005. The case seeks money damages and alleges that Caremark s processing of Medicaid and certain other government claims on behalf of its clients violates
applicable federal or state false claims acts and fraud statutes. The U.S. Department of Justice and the States of Texas, Tennessee, Florida, Arkansas, Louisiana and California intervened in the lawsuit, but Tennessee and Florida withdrew from the
lawsuit in August 2006 and May 2007, respectively. A phased approach to discovery is ongoing. The parties have filed cross motions for partial summary judgment, argued those motions before the court and final rulings are pending.
       In December 2007, the Company received a document subpoena from the Office of Inspector General within the United States
Department of Health and Human Services requesting certain information relating to the processing of Medicaid claims and claims of certain other government programs on an adjudication platform of AdvancePCS (acquired by Caremark in March 2004 and
now known as CaremarkPCS, L.L.C.). The Company will cooperate with these requests for information and cannot predict the timing, outcome, or consequence of the review of such information.       

3.  
  Caremark s subsidiary Caremark Inc. (now known as Caremark, L.L.C.) has been named in a putative class action lawsuit filed in July 2004, in Tennessee federal court by an
individual named Robert Moeckel, purportedly on behalf of the John Morrell Employee Benefits Plan, which is an employee benefit plan sponsored by a former Caremark client. The lawsuit, which seeks unspecified damages and injunctive relief, alleges
that Caremark acts as a fiduciary under ERISA and has breached certain alleged fiduciary duties under ERISA. In November 2007, the court granted Caremark Inc. s motion for partial summary judgment finding that it is not an ERISA
fiduciary under the applicable PBM agreements and that the plaintiff may not sustain claims for breach of fiduciary duty.         

4.  
  In 2004, Caremark received Civil Investigative Demands or similar requests for information relating to certain PBM business practices of its Caremark Inc. (now known as Caremark,
L.L.C.) and AdvancePCS (now known as CaremarkPCS, L.L.C.) subsidiaries under state consumer protection statutes from 28 states plus the District of Columbia. On February 14, 2008, Caremark entered into a settlement concluding this
investigation. Caremark agreed to pay $12 million in settlement on behalf of AdvancePCS, $10 million in settlement on behalf of Caremark Inc., $16.5 million in state investigative costs and up to $2.5 million to reimburse certain medical tests. In
addition, Caremark entered into a consent order requiring it to maintain certain PBM business practices. Caremark has expressly denied all wrongdoing and entered into the settlement to avoid the uncertainty and expense of the investigation.
          
   25   

Table of Contents  

5.  
  Caremark was named in a putative class action lawsuit filed on October 22, 2003 in Alabama state court by John Lauriello, purportedly on behalf of participants in the 1999
settlement of various securities class action and derivative lawsuits against Caremark and others. Other defendants include insurance companies that provided coverage to Caremark with respect to the settled lawsuits. The Lauriello lawsuit seeks
approximately $3.2 billion in compensatory damages plus other non-specified damages based on allegations that the amount of insurance coverage available for the settled lawsuits was misrepresented and suppressed. A similar lawsuit was filed on
November 5, 2003, by Frank McArthur, also in Alabama state court, naming as defendants Caremark, several insurance companies, attorneys and law firms involved in the 1999 settlement. This lawsuit was subsequently stayed by the court as a
later-filed class action.        In 2005, the trial court in the Lauriello case issued an order allowing the Lauriello case to
proceed on behalf of the settlement class in the 1999 securities class action. McArthur then sought to intervene in the Lauriello case and to challenge the adequacy of Lauriello as class representative and his lawyers as class counsel. The trial
court denied McArthur s motion to intervene, but the Alabama Supreme Court subsequently ordered the lower court to vacate its prior order on class certification and allow McArthur to intervene. Caremark and other defendants filed motions to
dismiss the complaint in intervention filed by McArthur. In November 2007, the trial court dismissed the attorneys and law firms named as defendants in the McArthur complaint in intervention and denied the motions to dismiss that complaint filed by
Caremark and the insurance company defendants. In January 2008, Lauriello filed a motion to dismiss McArthur s complaint in intervention, appealed the court s dismissal of the attorney and law firm defendants and filed a motion to stay
proceedings pending his appeal.       

6.  
  Various lawsuits have been filed alleging that Caremark and its subsidiaries Caremark Inc. (now known as Caremark, L.L.C.) and AdvancePCS (now known as CaremarkPCS, L.L.C.) have
violated applicable antitrust laws in establishing and maintaining retail pharmacy networks for client health plans. In August 2003, Bellevue Drug Co., Robert Schreiber, Inc. d/b/a Burns Pharmacy and Rehn-Huerbinger Drug Co. d/b/a Parkway Drugs #4,
together with Pharmacy Freedom Fund and the National Community Pharmacists Association filed a putative class action against AdvancePCS in Pennsylvania federal court, seeking treble damages and injunctive relief. The claims were initially sent to
arbitration based on contract terms between the pharmacies and AdvancePCS.        In October 2003, two independent pharmacies, North
Jackson Pharmacy, Inc. and C C, Inc. d/b/a Big C Discount Drugs, Inc. filed a putative class action complaint in Alabama federal court against Caremark, Caremark Inc., AdvancePCS (acquired by Caremark in March 2004 and now known as CaremarkPCS,
L.L.C.) and two PBM competitors, seeking treble damages and injunctive relief. The case against Caremark and Caremark Inc. was transferred to Illinois federal court, and the AdvancePCS case was sent to arbitration based on contract terms between the
pharmacies and AdvancePCS. The arbitration was then stayed by the parties pending developments in Caremark s court case.      In August
2006, the Bellevue case and the North Jackson Pharmacy case were transferred to Pennsylvania federal court by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation for coordinated and consolidated proceedings with other cases before the panel, including
cases against other PBMs. Caremark has appealed a decision which vacated the order compelling arbitration and staying the proceedings in the Bellevue case to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. Motions for class certification in the coordinated
cases within the multidistrict litigation, including the North Jackson Pharmacy case, remain pending. The consolidated action is now known as the In Re Pharmacy Benefit Managers Antitrust Litigation.       

7.  
  Caremark and its subsidiaries Caremark Inc. (now known as Caremark, L.L.C.) and AdvancePCS (acquired by Caremark in March 2004 and now known as CaremarkPCS, L.L.C.) have been named
in a putative class action lawsuit filed in California state court by an individual named Robert Irwin, purportedly on behalf of California members of non-ERISA health plans and/or all California taxpayers. The lawsuit, which also names other PBMs
as defendants, alleges violations of California s unfair competition laws and challenges alleged business practices of PBMs, including practices relating to pricing, rebates, formulary management, data utilization and accounting and
administrative processes. Discovery in the case is ongoing.           
   26   

Table of Contents  

8.  
  The Rhode Island Attorney General s Office, the Rhode Island Ethics Commission, and the United States Attorney s Office for the District of Rhode Island have been
investigating the business relationships between certain former members of the Rhode Island General Assembly and various Rhode Island companies, including Roger Williams Medical Center, Blue Cross   Blue Shield of Rhode Island and CVS. In
connection with the investigation of these business relationships, a former state senator was criminally charged in 2005 by federal and state authorities and has pled guilty to those charges, and a former state representative was criminally charged
in October 2007 by federal authorities and has pled guilty to those charges. In January 2007, two CVS employees on administrative leave from the Company were indicted on federal charges relating to their involvement in entering into a $12,000 per
year consulting agreement with the former state senator eight years ago. The indictment alleges that the two CVS employees concealed the true nature of the Company s relationship with the former state senator from other Company officials and
others. CVS will continue to cooperate fully in this investigation, the timing and outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty at this time.         

9.  
  The Company has been named in a putative class action lawsuit filed in California state court by Gabe Tong, purportedly on behalf of current and former pharmacists working in the
Company s California stores. The lawsuit alleges that CVS failed to provide pharmacists in the purported class with meal and rest periods or to pay overtime as required under California law. In October 2007, the Company reached a conditional
agreement, which is subject to approval by the court to resolve this matter. In addition, the Company is party to other employment litigation arising in the normal course of its business. The Company cannot predict the outcome of any of these
employment litigation matters at this time, but none of these matters are expected to be material to the Company.         

10.  
  As previously disclosed, the United States Department of Justice and several state attorneys general are investigating whether any civil or criminal violations resulted from certain
practices engaged in by CVS and others in the pharmacy industry with regard to dispensing one of two different dosage forms of a generic drug under circumstances in which some state Medicaid programs at various times reimbursed one dosage form at a
different rate from the other. The Company is in discussions with various governmental agencies involved to resolve this matter on a civil basis and without any admission or finding of any violation.         

11.  
  The Company is also a party to other litigation arising in the normal course of its business, none of which is expected to be material to the Company. The Company can give no
assurance, however, that our operating results and financial condition will not be materially adversely affected, or that we will not be required to materially change our business practices, based on: (i) future enactment of new healthcare or
other laws or regulations; (ii) the interpretation or application of existing laws or regulations, as they may relate to our business or the pharmacy services industry; (iii) pending or future federal or state governmental investigations
of our business or the pharmacy services industry; (iv) institution of government enforcement actions against us; (v) adverse developments in any pending qui tam lawsuit against us, whether sealed or unsealed, or in any future qui tam
lawsuit that may be filed against us; or (vi) adverse developments in other pending or future legal proceedings against us or affecting the pharmacy services industry.           
   27   

Table of Contents  

Item 4.   
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders         No matters
were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007.         
   28   

Table of Contents  

Executive Officers of the Registrant        Executive Officers of the Registrant       The following sets forth the name, age and biographical information for each of our executive officers as of February 21, 2008. In each case the
officer s term of office extends to the date of the board of directors meeting following the next annual meeting of stockholders of the Company. Previous positions and responsibilities held by each of the executive officers over the past five
years are indicated below:       Chris W. Bodine , age 52, Executive Vice President of CVS Caremark Corporation and President of CVS
Caremark Health Care Services since January 2007; Executive Vice President Merchandising and Marketing of CVS Corporation and CVS Pharmacy, Inc. from February 2002 to January 2007.       V. Michael Ferdinandi,  age 57, Senior Vice President of Human Resources and Corporate Communications of CVS Caremark Corporation and CVS Pharmacy,
Inc. since April 2002.       Larry J. Merlo,  age 52, Executive Vice President of CVS Caremark Corporation and President of CVS/pharmacy
  Retail since January 2007; Executive Vice President Stores of CVS Corporation from April 2000 to January 2007; and Executive Vice President Stores of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. from March 1998 to January 2007.       Howard A. McLure,  age 50, Executive Vice President of CVS Caremark Corporation and President of Caremark Pharmacy Services. Mr. McLure was
Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer of Caremark Rx, Inc. from June 2005 until the closing of the CVS-Caremark merger. Previously, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Caremark from May 2000
until June 2005.       Paula A. Price,  age 46, Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of CVS Caremark Corporation
and CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since July 2006. Ms. Price was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer for the Institutional Trust Services division of JPMorgan Chase   Co., a financial services company, from 2003 to 2005, and
Managing Director and Head of Corporate Strategy and Business Development from 2002 to 2003.          David B. Rickard,  age 61,
Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer of CVS Caremark Corporation and CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since September 1999; director of Harris Corporation, a communications and information technology company, and
Jones Lang LaSalle Incorporated, a real estate and investment management services company.       Jonathan C. Roberts , age 51, Senior Vice
President and Chief Information Officer of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. since January 2006; Senior Vice President - Store Operations of CVS Pharmacy, Inc. from August 2002 until December 2005.       Thomas M. Ryan,  age 55, Chairman of the Board of CVS Caremark Corporation since November 2007 and, President and Chief Executive Officer of CVS
Caremark Corporation since May 1998; formerly was Chairman of CVS Corporation from April 1999 until March 2007; director of Bank of America Corporation, a financial services company, and Yum! Brands, Inc., a quick service restaurant company.
      Douglas A. Sgarro,  age 48, Executive Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of CVS Caremark Corporation and CVS Pharmacy, Inc.
since March 2004 and President of CVS Realty Co., a real estate development company and a division of CVS Pharmacy, Inc., since October 1999; Senior Vice President and Chief Legal Officer of CVS Corporation from April 2000 to March 2004.   
     
   29   

Table of Contents  

    PART II        

Item 5.   
   Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.         Since October 16, 1996, our common stock has been listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol  CVS.  The table below sets forth the high and low
sales prices of our common stock on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape as reported in  The Wall Street Journal  and the quarterly cash dividends declared per share of common stock during the periods indicated.       
    CVS Caremark has paid cash dividends every quarter since becoming a public company. Future dividend payments will
depend on the Company s earnings, capital requirements, financial condition and other factors considered relevant by the Board of Directors. As of February 21, 2008, there were approximately 16,799 registered shareholders according to the
records maintained by our transfer agent.      The following table presents the total number of shares purchased during the fourth quarter of 2007, the average
price paid per share, the number of shares that were purchased as part of a publicly announced repurchase program, and the approximate dollar value of shares that still could have been purchased at the end of the applicable fiscal period, pursuant
to the $5.0 billion repurchase program.       

(1)  
  On March 28, 2007, the Company commenced a tender offer to purchase up to 150 million shares, or about 10%, of its outstanding common stock at a price of $35.00 per share.
The offer to purchase the shares expired on April 24, 2007 and resulted in approximately 10.3 million shares being tendered. On May 9, 2007, the Company s Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to $5.0
billion of outstanding common stock. On May 13, 2007, the Company entered into a $2.5 billion fixed dollar accelerated share repurchase agreement (the  May ASR agreement ) with Lehman Brothers, Inc. ( Lehman ). The May ASR
agreement contained provisions that established the minimum and maximum number of shares to be repurchased during the term of the May ASR agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the May ASR agreement, on May 14, 2007, the Company paid $2.5 billion
to Lehman in exchange for Lehman delivering 45.6 million shares of common stock to the Company. On June 7, 2007, upon establishment of the minimum number of shares to be repurchased, Lehman delivered an additional 16.1 million shares
of common stock to the Company. The final settlement under the May ASR program occurred on October 5, 2007 and resulted in the Company receiving an additional 5.8 million shares of common stock during the fourth quarter of 2007. The
aggregate 67.5 million shares were repurchased at an average price per share of $37.02 and were placed into the Company s treasury account upon delivery.           
   30   

Table of Contents  

   On October 8, 2007, the Company commenced an open market repurchase program. The program concluded on
November 2, 2007 and resulted in 5.3 million shares of common stock being repurchased for $211.9 million. The shares were placed into the Company s treasury account upon delivery.      On November 6, 2007, the Company entered into a $2.3 billion fixed dollar accelerated share repurchase agreement (the  November ASR agreement ) with
Lehman. The November ASR agreement contained provisions that established the minimum and maximum number of shares to be repurchased during the term of the November ASR agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the November ASR agreement, on
November 7, 2007, the Company paid $2.3 billion to Lehman in exchange for Lehman delivering 37.2 million shares of common stock to the Company. On November 26, 2007, upon establishment of the minimum number of shares to be
repurchased, Lehman delivered an additional 14.4 million shares of common stock to the Company. The aggregate 51.6 million shares of common stock delivered to the Company by Lehman were placed into the Company s treasury account. The
Company may receive up to 5.7 million of additional shares of common stock, depending on the market price of the common stock, as determined under the November ASR agreement, over the term of the November ASR agreement, which is currently
expected to conclude during the first quarter of 2008. The share repurchase program does not have a prescribed expiration date.         
   31   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
   Selected Financial Data         The selected consolidated financial data
of CVS Caremark Corporation as of and for the periods indicated in the five-year period ended December 29, 2007 have been derived from the consolidated financial statements of CVS Caremark Corporation. The selected consolidated financial data
should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and the audit reports of Ernst   Young LLP and KPMG LLP, which are incorporated elsewhere herein.       

(1)  
  Effective March 22, 2007, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 1, 2006, as amended (the  Merger Agreement ), Caremark Rx, Inc.
( Caremark ) was merged with and into a newly formed subsidiary of CVS Corporation, with the CVS subsidiary, Caremark Rx, L.L.C., continuing as the surviving entity (the  Caremark Merger ). Following the Caremark Merger, the name
of the Company was changed to  CVS Caremark Corporation.  By virtue of the Caremark Merger, each issued and outstanding share of Caremark common stock, par value $0.001 per share, of Caremark was converted into the right to receive 1.67
shares of CVS Caremark s common stock, par value $0.01 per share. Cash was paid in lieu of fractional shares.         

(2)  
  In 2006, the Company adopted the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year
Misstatements when Qualifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements.  The adoption of this statement resulted in a $40.2 million pre-tax ($24.7 million after-tax) decrease in operating expenses for 2006.     

(3)  
  In 2004, the Company conformed its accounting for operating leases and leasehold improvements to the views expressed by the Office of the Chief Accountant of the Securities and
Exchange Commission to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants on February 7, 2005. As a result, the Company recorded a non-cash pre-tax adjustment of $65.9 million ($40.5 million after-tax) to operating expenses, which
represents the cumulative effect of the adjustment for a period of approximately 20 years. Since the effect of this non-cash adjustment was not material to 2004, or any previously reported fiscal year, the cumulative effect was recorded in the
fourth quarter of 2004.         

(4)  
  Operating profit includes the pre-tax effect of the charge discussed in Note (2) and Note (3) above.         

(5)  
  Income tax provision includes the effect of the following: (i) in 2006, a $11.0 million reversal of previously recorded tax reserves through the tax provision principally based
on resolving certain state tax matters; (ii) in 2005, a $52.6 million reversal of previously recorded tax reserves through the tax provision principally based on resolving certain state tax matters, and (iii) in 2004, a $60.0 million
reversal of previously recorded tax reserves through the tax provision principally based on finalizing certain tax return years and on a 2004 court decision relevant to the industry.         

(6)  
  Net earnings and net earnings per common share include the after-tax effect of the charges and gains discussed in Notes (2), (3), (4), and (5) above.     

Item 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations         We refer you to the  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  which includes our  Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements  at
the end of such section, on pages 35 through 36 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007, which is incorporated by reference herein.         
   32   

Table of Contents  

Item 7A.   
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk         As of
December 29, 2007, the Company had no derivative financial instruments or derivative commodity instruments in place and believes that its exposure to market risk associated with other financial instruments, principally interest rate risk
inherent in its debt portfolio, is not material.       

Item 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data         We refer you to the
 Consolidated Statements of Operations,   Consolidated Balance Sheets,   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity,   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,  and  Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements,  on pages 39 through 68, and  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  on pages 70 and 71, of our Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007, which are
incorporated by reference herein.       

Item 9.   
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure         KPMG LLP ( KPMG ) was previously the principal accountants for the Company. On September 26, 2007, KPMG was dismissed as the Company s principal accountants.      The decision to change accountants was made by the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company at a meeting held on September 25, 2007 and followed the
Audit Committee s review, as part of its corporate governance practices, of the Company s independent registered public accounting firm.      During
the fifty-two week periods ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, and the subsequent interim period through September 26, 2007, there were no: (i) disagreements with KPMG on any matter of accounting principle or practice,
financial statement disclosure, or auditing scope or procedure that, if not resolved to KPMG s satisfaction, would have caused it to make reference in connection with their opinion to the subject matter of the disagreement, or
(ii) reportable events as defined in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K.      The audit reports of KPMG on the Company s consolidated financial
statements as of and for the fifty-two week periods ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 did not contain an adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, nor were they qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope, or
accounting principles, except as follows: KPMG s report on the consolidated financial statements of the Company as of and for the fifty-two week periods ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 contained a separate paragraph
stating that  As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, CVS Corporation adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment , effective
January 1, 2006.       The audit reports of KPMG on management s assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting
and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 did not contain an adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion, nor were they modified or qualified as to uncertainty, audit
scope, or accounting principles.      At the same meeting, the Audit Committee determined to engage Ernst   Young LLP ( Ernst  
Young ) as the Company s independent registered public accounting firm commencing with audit services for the fiscal quarter ending September 29, 2007.      Ernst   Young served as the independent registered public accounting firm for Caremark Rx, Inc. ( Caremark ) prior to Caremark s merger with the Company in March 2007. Other than with respect
to Ernst   Young s role as independent registered public accounting firm for Caremark in the case of clause (i) below, during the fifty-two week periods ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, and the subsequent
interim period through September 26, 2007, neither the Company, nor anyone on its behalf, consulted with Ernst   Young with respect to either (i) the application of accounting principles to a specified transaction, either
completed or proposed, or the type of audit opinion that might be rendered on the Company s consolidated financial statements, and no written report or oral advice was provided by Ernst   Young to the Company that Ernst  
Young concluded was an important factor considered by the Company in reaching a decision as to the accounting, auditing, or financial reporting issue or (ii) any matter that was the subject of either a disagreement as defined in
Item 304(a)(1)(iv) of Regulation S-K or a reportable event as described in Item 304(a)(1)(v) of Regulation S-K.         
   33   

Table of Contents  

Item 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures          Evaluation of disclosure controls and
procedures:  The Company s Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, after evaluating the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15
(f) and 15d-15(f)) as of December 29, 2007, have concluded that as of such date the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were adequate and effective and designed to ensure that material information relating to the Company and
its subsidiaries would be made known to such officers on a timely basis.       Internal control over financial reporting:  We refer you to
 Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  on page 37 and  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  on page 38 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
December 29, 2007, which are incorporated by reference herein, for Management s report on the Registrant s internal control over financial reporting and the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm s report with respect to
the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting.       Changes in internal control over financial reporting:  There have been no changes in
our internal controls over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by paragraph (d) of Rule 13a-15 or Rule 15d-15 that occurred during the fourth quarter ended December 29, 2007 that have materially
affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.       

Item 9B.   
   Other Information         No events have occurred during the fourth
quarter that would require disclosure under this item.         
   34   

Table of Contents  

    PART III        

Item 10.   
   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant         We refer you to
our Proxy Statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the captions  Committees of the Board,   Code of Conduct,   Director Nominations,   Audit Committee Report,   Biographies of our Board
Nominees,  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,  which are incorporated by reference herein. Biographical information on our executive officers is contained in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 11.   
   Executive Compensation         We refer you to our Proxy Statement for the
2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the captions  Executive Compensation and Related Matters,  including  Compensation Discussion   Analysis  and  Management Planning and Development Committee Report, 
which are incorporated by reference herein.       

Item 12.   
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters         We refer you to our Proxy Statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the captions  Share Ownership of Directors and Certain Executive Officers,  and  Share Ownership of Principal
Stockholders  which is incorporated by reference herein, for information concerning security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management and related stockholder matters.      The following table summarizes information about the Company s common stock that may be issued upon the exercise of options, warrants and rights under all of our equity compensation plans as of December 29,
2007.       

Shares in thousands    
      
   Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and
rights   
      
   Weighted average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights   
      
   Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation
plans (excluding securities reflected in first column)    
 
    Equity compensation plans approved by stockholders   (1)      
      
  60,022  
      
  $  
  23.47  
      
  89,107   
 
    Equity compensation plans not approved by stockholders   

Total   
      
  60,022  
      
  $  
  23.47  
      
  89,107   

(1)  
  The number of shares available for delivery under the 1997 Incentive Compensation Plan is subject to adjustment by 9.4% of the number of shares of common stock issued or delivered
by the Company during the term of the Plan (excluding any issuance or delivery in connection with awards, or any other compensation or benefit plan of the Company).         

Item 13.   
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence         We refer you to our Proxy Statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption  Independence Determinations for Directors  and  Certain Transactions with Directors and Officers,  which is incorporated
by reference herein.       

Item 14.   
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services         We refer you to our Proxy
Statement for the 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the caption  Item 2: Ratification of Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm,  which is incorporated by reference herein.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

    PART IV        

Item 15.   
   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules          

A.   
   Documents filed as part of this report:          

1.   
   Financial Statements:         The following financial
statements are incorporated by reference from pages 18 through 68 and pages 70 through 71 of our Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007, as provided in Item 8 hereof:       

2.   
   Financial Statement Schedules         The following
financial statement schedule is filed on page 44 of this report: Schedule II   Valuation and Qualifying Accounts. All other financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the information is included in the
financial statements or related notes.       B. Exhibits       Exhibits marked with an asterisk (*) are hereby incorporated by reference to exhibits or appendices previously filed by the Registrant as indicated in brackets following the description of the exhibit.       

Exhibit    
      
     Description     

1.1*  
      
  Underwriting Agreement dated August 10, 2006 among the Registrant and Lehman Brothers Inc., Banc of America Securities LLC, BNY Capital Markets, Inc. and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as
representatives of the Underwriters [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 10, 2006 (Commission File No. 001-01011)].   

1.2*  
      
  Underwriting Agreement dated May 22, 2007 among the Registrant and Lehman Brothers Inc., Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, BNY Capital Markets, Inc. and
Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as representatives of the Underwriters [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 22, 2007 (Commission File No. 001-01011)].   

1.3*  
      
  Underwriting Agreement dated May 22, 2007 among the Registrant and Lehman Brothers Inc., Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, BNY Capital Markets, Inc. and
Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as representatives of the Underwriters [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2 to the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 22, 2007 (Commission File No. 001-01011)].   

2.1*  
      
  Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 1, 2006 among, the Registrant, Caremark Rx. Inc. and Twain MergerSub Corp. [incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Registrant s
Registration Statement No. 333-139470 on Form S-4 filed December 19, 2006].   

2.2*  
      
  Amendment No. 1 dated as of January 16, 2007 to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 1, 2006 among the Registrant, Caremark Rx, Inc. and Twain Merger Sub Corp. [incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 2.2 to the Registrant s Registration Statement No. 333-139470 on Form S-4/A filed January 16, 2007].   

2.3*  
      
  Waiver Agreement dated as of January 16, 2007 between the Registrant and Caremark Rx, Inc. with respect to the Agreement and Plan Merger dates as of November 1, 2006 by and
between   
       
   36   

Table of Contents  

37   

Table of Contents  

38   

Table of Contents  

39   

Table of Contents  

40   

Table of Contents  

41   

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and Shareholders      CVS Caremark Corporation      We have audited the consolidated financial
statements of CVS Caremark Corporation as of December 29, 2007, and for the fifty-two week period then ended, and have issued our report thereon dated February 25, 2008. These consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are
incorporated by reference in the December 29, 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K of CVS Caremark Corporation. Our audit also included the financial statement schedule for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007 listed in Item 15 of
this Annual Report (Form 10-K). This schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audit.      In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.      /s/ Ernst   Young LLP      Boston, Massachusetts      February 25, 2008         
   42   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and Shareholders      CVS Caremark Corporation:
     Under date of February 27, 2007 we reported on the consolidated balance sheet of CVS Caremark Corporation and subsidiaries (formerly CVS Corporation)
as of December 30, 2006 and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders  equity and cash flows for the fifty-two week periods ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005. Such report includes an explanatory
paragraph regarding the Company s adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment , effective January 1, 2006. These consolidated financial statements and our report
thereon are incorporated by reference in the December 29, 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K of CVS Caremark Corporation. In connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we also audited the related
consolidated financial statement schedule for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 as listed in the accompanying index. This financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on this financial statement schedule based on our audits.      In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein for the fiscal years ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005.
     /s/ KPMG LLP      KPMG LLP      Providence, Rhode Island      February 27, 2007         
   43   

Table of Contents  

Schedule II     Valuation and Qualifying Accounts        
       
   44   

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant
has duly caused this Annual Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

CVS CAREMARK CORPORATION   

Date: February 27, 2008  

By:  
     
  /s/ David B. Rickard   

David B. Rickard   

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and     Chief Administrative Officer    
    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the
following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.       

Signature    
      
     Title(s)    
     
     Date     

/s/ Edwin M. Banks     Edwin M. Banks   
      
  Director  
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/ C. David Brown II     C. David Brown II   
      
  Director  
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/ David. W. Dorman     David W. Dorman   
      
  Director  
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/ Kristen Gibney Williams     Kristen Gibney Williams   
      
  Director  
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/ Marian L. Heard     Marian L. Heard   
      
  Director  
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/ William H. Joyce     William H. Joyce   
      
  Director  
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/ Jean-Pierre Millon     Jean-Pierre Millon   
      
  Director  
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/ Terrence Murray     Terrence Murray   
      
  Director  
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/ C.A. Lance Piccolo     C.A. Lance Piccolo   
      
  Director  
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/ Paula A. Price     Paula A. Price   
      
    Senior Vice President   Finance and Controller     (Principal Accounting Officer)   
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/ David B. Rickard     David B. Rickard   
      
    Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer     (Principal Financial Officer)   
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/ Sheli Z. Rosenberg     Sheli Z. Rosenberg   
      
  Director  
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/ Thomas M. Ryan     Thomas M. Ryan   
      
    Chairman of the Board, President and     Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer)   
     
  February 27, 2008   

/s/ Richard J. Swift     Richard J. Swift   
      
  Director  
     
  February 27, 2008   
       
   45   

<EX-10.10>
 2
 dex1010.htm
 CAREMARK RX INC. SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN

Caremark Rx Inc. Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan 

Exhibit 10.10         CAREMARK RX, INC.      SUPPLEMENTAL EXECUTIVE RETIREMENT PLAN      Caremark Rx, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby adopts the Caremark Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (the  Plan ). The primary
purpose of the Plan is to provide supplemental retirement benefits to a select group of the Company s executive employees and their dependents.      ARTICLE 1      Definitions      For the purpose of this Plan, unless the context requires otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated below:      1.1  Accrued Benefit  means a monthly benefit payment equal in amount to sixty percent (60%) of a Participant s Final Average Compensation.      1.2  Board  means the Board of Directors of the Company.      1.3  Cause  means, with respect to any Participant who is covered by an employment agreement executed between such Participant and the Company (or one of its subsidiaries) in which the term is so defined in the
employment agreement, the definition of  Cause  set forth in the Participant s employment agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any other Participant, the term  Cause  shall mean (i) fraud against
the Company or any of its subsidiaries; (ii) material failure or any refusal to implement or undertake the directives of the Board or of senior management of the Company; (iii) engaging in conduct that causes material injury, monetary or
otherwise, to the Company or its subsidiaries, that reflects adversely on the Company or its subsidiaries or that affects the Participant s ability to perform his or her duties hereunder; (iv) arrest for, indictment for or being formally
charged with, the commission of a felony or commission of a crime, whether or not a felony, involving the Participant s duties for the Company or its subsidiaries or that may reflect unfavorably on the Company or its subsidiaries or bring the
Participant into public disrepute or scandal; (v) violation of federal, state or local tax laws; (vi) dependence on alcohol or drugs without the supervision of a physician or the illegal use, possession or sale of drugs; (vii) theft,
misappropriation, embezzlement or conversion of the assets or opportunities of the Company or its subsidiaries; or (viii) a material violation of Company policies.      1.4  Change in Control  means: (i) the acquisition, whether by open market or private purchase, tender offer or any other means, by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of
Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act )), (hereafter a  Person ) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act)
of 20% or more of either (A) the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the  Outstanding Common Stock ) or (B) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote
generally in the election of directors (the  Outstanding Voting Securities  provided, that for purposes of this subsection (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (1) any acquisition by one or more
underwritten directly from the Company pursuant to a firm commitment underwritten offering to the public of shares of common stock, (2) any acquisition by the Company, provided that immediately following such acquisition no person other than
the Company or a subsidiary of the Company is such a 20% beneficial owner, (3) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, provided that
immediately following such acquisition no person other than any such benefit plan (or related trust) is such a 20% beneficial owner, or (4) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (1),
(2) and (3) of subsection (iii) below; (ii) cessation, for any reason, of the individuals who constitute the Board as of the Effective Date of the Plan (the  Incumbent Board ) to constitute at least a majority of the
Board; provided, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof  

whose election, or nomination for election by the Company s stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising
the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual was a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election
contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board; (iii) consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation of
the Company or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (a  Business Combination ), in such case, unless, following such Business Combination, (1) all or substantially all of the individuals
and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Common Stock and Outstanding Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the
then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination
(including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company s assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions
as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Common Stock and Outstanding Voting Securities as the case may be, (2) no party (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any
employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the
corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (3) at least
a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement or of the action of the Board, providing for such
Business Combination; (iv) approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company; (v) the making of a recommendation by the Board, pursuant of Rule 14e-2 under the Exchange Act or
otherwise, in connection with a tender offer pursuant to which any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) seeks to obtain beneficial ownership (within the meaning of
Rule 13(d)-3 under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of either the Outstanding Common Stock or the Outstanding Voting Securities, other than a recommendation that the holders of shares of such securities (1) not accept the offer and
(2) not tender Outstanding Common Stock or Outstanding Voting Securities; or (vi) any other event that constitutes a  change in control  under the Caremark Rx. Inc. 1992 Stock Incentive Plan or the Caremark Rx, Inc.
1997 Stock Incentive Plan.      1.5  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor statute.      1.6  Committee  means the Compensation Committee of the Board.      1.7  Disability Date  means the first day of the first month that coincides with, or immediately follows, the date on which a Disabled Participant s employment with the Company is terminated.      1.8  Disabled Participant  means a Participant who makes an application for or is otherwise eligible for disability benefits under any
Company-sponsored long-term disability program and who qualifies for such benefits. In the absence of a Company-sponsored long-term disability program covering a Participant, the Participant shall be treated as a Disabled Participant if the
Committee, acting in its sole discretion, determines that the Participant will be unable to perform his duties under this Agreement for at least 180 consecutive days (or such other period as specified in any Participant s employment agreement)
due to a physical or mental condition.         
   2   

1.9  Employee  means an individual who is an employee of the Company or of a subsidiary thereof
(i) who has a high level of operational, policy or professional responsibilities, (ii) who is so designated by Committee and (iii) whose status as such has not been terminated by the Committee.      1.10  ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.      1.11  Final Average Compensation  means the highest average monthly base salary paid by the Company to a Participant during any
consecutive thirty-six (36) month period during the 72 calendar months immediately preceding the date of the termination of the Participant s employment with the Company.      1.12  Months of Vesting Service  means as to each Participant the number of calendar months during which such Participant is eligible to
participate in the Plan, beginning with the calendar month in which such Participant first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan. In the event that a Participant commences participation to the Plan either on the Effective Date, as defined in
Section 12.9 hereof, or on any other date other than the first date of a calendar month, then the Participant shall be credited with a Month of Vesting Service with respect to the calendar month in which his or her participation in the Plan
commences. A Participant shall be credited with a Month of Vesting Service with respect to the calendar month in which the Participant s participation in the Plan ceases for any reason. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant shall be
credited under the Plan with an additional forty eight (48) Months of Vesting Service upon the occurrence of either of the following events: 1) a Disabled Participant reaching his or her Disability Date, 2) a Change in Control;
provided, that such an additional credit shall only be provided once to any Participant.      1.13  Normal Retirement
Date  means the first day of the first month that coincides with, or immediately follows, the date on which a Participant reaches age sixty (60).      1.14  Participant  means an Employee or a former Employee who is receiving or is eligible to receive any benefit under this Plan.      1.15  Plan Administrator  means the Committee.      1.16  Plan Year  means the calendar year.      1.17  Retirement Date  means the
first day of the first month that coincides with, or immediately follows, the date on which a Participant s active and full-time employment is terminated.      1.18  Spouse  means the individual who as of any day is a Participant s lawful spouse and is not legally separated from such Participant under a final decree of divorce or separate maintenance.
     1.19  Vested Percentage  means the percentage amount shown under the following schedule that corresponds to the
Participant s completed Months of Vesting Service on the date his or her status as an Employee terminates:       
    A Participant shall be credited with an incremental increase in the Participant s Vested Percentage between
the 12 month, 24 month, 36 month and 48 month thresholds set forth above for each Month of Vesting Service earned, and such incremental increase shall be determined on the basis of a straight line interpolation determined by
dividing the aggregate incremental increase in Vested Percentage between the thresholds by 12. Notwithstanding any provisions hereof to the contrary, a Participant will become 100% vested in all benefits payable on his or her behalf under the Plan
upon the event of his or her death before the Participant s Retirement Date.         
   3   

ARTICLE 2      Retirement Benefit      A Participant shall receive a monthly retirement benefit that shall commence as of the
Participant s Retirement Date and that shall continue as of the first day of each month thereafter during the Participant s remaining lifetime. Except to the extent provided in Article 5, the amount of each monthly retirement benefit
payable to a Participant with a Retirement Date on or after the Participant s Normal Retirement Date shall be equal to the Participant s Accrued Benefit multiplied by the applicable Vested Percentage as of the date of termination of
employment. With the exception of any Participant who retires on his or her Disability Date and whose benefit payment is determined under Article 3, the monthly retirement benefit of a Participant that commences as of a date before the
Participant s Normal Retirement Date shall be equal to the Participant s Accrued Benefit multiplied by the applicable Vested Percentage as of the date of termination of employment, and then reduced by 1/96 for each full calendar month
between the date on which the Participant s retirement benefit commences and the Participant s Normal Retirement Date; provided, that there shall be no reduction to the Participant s monthly retirement benefit hereunder if such
benefit becomes payable to a Participant after an event that constitutes a Change in Control. Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, if the employment of a Participant is terminated by the Company for Cause, as that term is
defined in Section 1.3 hereof, then the Participant shall not be entitled to the payment of a retirement benefit under the Plan.      ARTICLE 3      Disability Benefit      A Disabled Participant shall receive a monthly retirement benefit that shall commence as of the Participant s Disability Date and that shall continue as of the first day of each month thereafter during the Participant s remaining
lifetime. Except to the extent provided in Article 5, the amount of each monthly retirement benefit payable to a Participant under this Article 3 shall be equal to the Participant s Accrued Benefit multiplied by the applicable Vested
Percentage as of the date of termination of employment. The monthly retirement benefit payable under this Article 3 shall not be reduced in the event that payment of the benefit commences before the Participant s Normal Retirement Date.
     ARTICLE 4      Pre-Retirement
Death Benefit      If a Participant dies while an active Employee of the Company, then in lieu of any other benefits that might otherwise be
payable under this Plan, his or her Spouse, if the Spouse survives the Participant, shall receive a lump sum cash payment equal to the product of the Participant s Final Average Compensation as of the date of death multiplied by five (5).
     ARTICLE 5      Alternative Benefit
Payment Forms      A Participant or Disabled Participant who is eligible for the payment of a Plan benefit under Article 2 or
Article 3, as appropriate, shall have the right to request the payment of such benefit in one of the alternative benefit payment forms described in this Article 5, and, in the event the Committee approves his or her request, the benefit
shall be paid to the Participant or Disabled Participant in that  
       
   4   

form. An alternative benefit payment form, if approved by the Committee, shall commence as of the same date the monthly retirement benefit otherwise would
have commenced pursuant to the provisions of Article 2 or 3, as appropriate. A Participant or Disabled Participant may request that his or her benefit be paid in the form of a joint and survivor annuity with either a 50%, 66   2   /3% or 100% benefit for the survivor, which is the actuarial equivalent of the benefit described in either Article 2 or 3, as appropriate, and which is
payable in monthly installments for the life of a Participant or Disabled Participant and thereafter for the life of his or her Spouse, if the Spouse survives, where (1) the identity of such Spouse shall be established on the date of which
benefit payments first are scheduled to commence under this form to the Participant or Disabled Participant and thereafter shall not be changed for any reason whatsoever, and (2) the amount of the monthly benefit payable to such surviving
Spouse at the death of the Participant or Disabled Participant shall equal the applicable percentage, as elected, of the monthly benefit that was payable to the Participant the Participant during his or her lifetime. A Participant or Disabled
Participant alternatively may request that his or her benefit to be paid in the form of a series of six (6) annual installment payments, with the first installment due on the same date the monthly retirement benefit otherwise would have
commenced pursuant to the provisions of Article 2 or 3, as appropriate. The installment benefit payment form will be paid on a level amortization basis, including principal and interest, and interest will accrue at the rate of seven percent
(7%) on any unpaid balance related to the installment payments. A request by a Participant or Disabled Participant for the payment of his or her Plan benefit in one of the alternative forms set forth in this Article 5 shall be made in
writing and shall be filed before the date as of which his or her benefit payments are scheduled to commence under this Plan. The methodology to determine actuarial equivalency under this Article 5 shall be determined by the Committee in the
exercise of its sole discretion.      ARTICLE 6      Source of Records and Benefit Payments      6.1  Records.  All records relating to the accrual
and disbursement of benefits to, or on behalf of, Participants under this Plan shall be maintained by the Committee.      6.2  Participant List.  The Committee shall at all times maintain a current list of all Participants, and of all other persons receiving benefits, and said list shall contain such other information as the Committee shall deem
appropriate.      6.3  Source of Benefit Payments.  Any person who claims a benefit under this Plan shall look solely to the
general assets of the Company. Such person s interest in such assets as a result of such claim shall in no matter whatsoever be superior or senior to the claim of any other general and unsecured creditor of the Company, and in no event
whatsoever shall any other person whomsoever be liable to pay such benefits.      ARTICLE 7      Funding      In the event of a Change in
Control, as defined in Section 1.4 hereof, the Company shall, as soon as reasonably practicable after the date the Change in Control occurs, but not later than thirty (30) days after such date, establish an irrevocable trust, which trust
shall remain subject to the rights of the creditors of the Company in the event of the Company s insolvency, if such a trust has not already been established by the Company, and shall make a contribution to such trust in an amount to ensure
that the fair market value of the trust corpus, including any contributions previously made to the trust by the Company, equals the present value of the aggregate benefits accrued under the Plan, calculated by the Committee in the exercise of its
sole discretion, as of date on which the Change in Control occurs. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company shall not be obligated to establish a trust under this Article 7 and to make any contributions thereto if such actions would result in
the current receipt of taxable income by any Participant.         
   5   

ARTICLE 8      Special Provisions      8.1  Forfeiture of Plan Benefit.  A Participant or Disabled Participant
who violates the terms of any restrictive covenants, including but not limited to non-compete and non-solicitation covenants, applicable to such Participant or Disabled Participant as a result of a period of employment or a period of service as a
consultant with respect to the Company (or it subsidiaries) shall forfeit the payment of any benefits otherwise payable thereto under the Plan.      8.2  Application of Benefits.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Plan, any benefits payable under the Plan shall become payable only after the Participant, Disabled Participant or a Spouse, as the
case may be, has made an application with the Committee for such benefit on a form prepared by or on behalf of the Committee for this purpose. In the event any benefit becomes payable under this Plan and no application therefor has been filed by any
such person within two (2) years from the date such benefit becomes payable, such benefit shall be forfeited. If an application has been filed for the payment of a benefit and the Committee is unable through reasonable efforts to locate the
person legally entitled to receive such benefit within two (2) years of the date such benefit first becomes payable under the Plan, then such benefit also shall be forfeited.      ARTICLE 9      Welfare Benefits Coverage      With respect to any Participant who is designated by the Committee as entitled to the benefits described in this Article 9, the Company shall
provide continuation of health care, dental and pharmacy coverage for the Participant and his or her dependants on terms and conditions substantially similar to those provided to executive employees of the Company from time to time, which coverage
shall terminate as of the date of such Participant s death. The Company reserves the right to amend or terminate its health care coverage, and each Participant entitled to benefits under this Article 9 shall be affected by any such
amendment or termination in substantially the same fashion as executive employees of the Company are so affected. Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing in this Plan shall be interpreted to require the Company to provide to any Participant tax
treatment relating to health care coverage that is substantially similar to the tax treatment provided by the Company to its executive employees.      ARTICLE 10      Functions of the Committee      10.1  General.  The Committee shall be the Named Fiduciary for the Plan. A member of the Committee may be a Participant but, in such case, a claim submitted by one member of the Committee as a
Participant or Disabled Participant shall be reviewed by one or more other members of the Committee.      The Company shall indemnify each
member of the Committee for any liability, assessment, loss, expense or other cost of any kind or description whatsoever, including legal fees and expenses, actually incurred by a member on account of any action or proceeding, actual or threatened,
that arise as a result of being a member of the Committee or as a result of any actions or inactions of any member(s) of the Committee.         
   6   

10.2  Powers.  The Committee shall have control over the administration of the Plan, with
all powers necessary to enable it properly to carry out its duties in this respect, including without limitation, the designation of Employees as Participants, including eligibility for benefits under Article 9, and the power to waive any
conditions or limitations stated in the Plan whenever the Committee, acting in its absolute discretion, deems such a waiver to be appropriate under the circumstances. The Committee may appoint in writing such agents as it may deem necessary for the
effective performance of its duties, and may delegate to such agents those powers and duties, whether ministerial or discretionary, that it deems expedient or appropriate. In the event that any agent so appointed is not an employee of the Company,
such agent s compensation shall be fixed by the Committee and shall be paid by the Company.      ARTICLE 11      Amendment and Termination      11.1  Amendment.  This Plan may be amended in any respect and at any time by the Board in the exercise of its sole discretion. Any such amendment automatically shall be binding on each Participant, provided, that no such
amendment may reduce the level of non-forfeitable benefit accrued by a Participant under the Plan as of the date the amendment is adopted.      11.2  Termination.  The Board reserves the right to terminate the Plan at any time and to cease the accrual and/or vesting of benefits thereunder; provided, that no such termination may reduce the level of non-forfeitable
benefits accrued by a Participant under the Plan as of the date the termination is effective.      ARTICLE 12      Miscellaneous      12.1  Headings.  The headings and subheadings in the Plan have been inserted for convenience of reference only and are to be ignored in any construction of the Plan provisions.      12.2  Construction.  In the construction of the Plan, the singular shall include the plural in all cases in which such meaning would be
appropriate. This Plan shall be construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Alabama.      12.3  Agent for Service of
Process.  The agent for service of process for the Plan shall be the person currently listed in the records of the Secretary of State of Alabama as the agent for service of process for the Company.      12.4  Plan Administrator.  The Committee shall be the Plan Administrator of the Plan for purposes of compliance with the ERISA reporting
and disclosure requirements.      12.5  No Assignment by Participants.  The benefits provided under this Plan may not be
alienated, encumbered or assigned by a Participant, Disabled Participant or Spouse.      12.6  Successors and Assigns to the
Company.  The rights and obligations of the Company under this Plan shall be binding on and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and permitted assigns.      12.7  Effect of Plan.  This Plan shall not constitute a contract of employment for any definite term and shall not affect or impair the
right of either party to terminate the employment relationship at any time.      12.8  Legal Competency.  The Committee may, in
its discretion, make payment either directly to an incompetent or disabled person, whether because of minority or mental or physical disability, or to the guardian of such person, or to the person having custody of such person, without further
liability on the part of the Company, the Committee, or any person, for the amounts of such payment to the person on whose account such payment is made.      12.9  Effective Date.  The effective date of the Plan shall be November 12, 2002.         
   7   

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.11>
 3
 dex1011.htm
 CAREMARK RX INC. SPECIAL RETIREMENT PLAN

Caremark Rx Inc. Special Retirement Plan 

Exhibit 10.11        CAREMARK RX, INC.        SPECIAL RETIREMENT PLAN       Caremark Rx, Inc. (the  Company ) hereby adopts the Caremark Rx, Inc. Special Retirement Plan (the  Plan ). The primary purpose of the Plan is to
provide supplemental non-qualified retirement benefits to a select group of the Company s executive employees and their dependents.       

1.  
   Definitions          For the purpose of this Plan, unless
the context requires otherwise, the following words and phrases shall have the meanings indicated below:       

1.  
   Accrued Benefit    means an annual benefit payment equal in amount to 2.5% of a Participant s Final Average Compensation multiplied by his or her Years of Service,
and that is payable over a maximum ten (10) year period. For purposes of calculating each Participant s Accrued Benefit, no more than 20 Years of Service will be taken into account.         

2.  
   Beneficiary    means the individual so designated by the Participant on forms provided or accepted by the Committee to receive any remaining benefits to which the
Participant is entitled under this Plan subsequent to the Participant s death. If a Participant is married on the date on which he completes his or her designation form, the Participant must designate his or her Spouse as Beneficiary, unless
the Spouse consents in writing to the selection of another Beneficiary or unless the Spouse is missing and the Participant affirms in writing that he or she has made reasonable attempts to locate such Spouse and has been unable to (these
requirements termed the  Spousal Consent Requirements ). Any Participant may, at any time, revoke or change his or her Beneficiary designation by filing a new designation form, provided that he or she complies with the Spousal Consent
Requirements at the time of such revocation or change.        If no Beneficiary designation is made or if no named Beneficiary
survives the Participant, then the Participant s Beneficiary shall be the Participant s Spouse on the date of his or her death, unless the Participant does not have a Spouse at the date of his or her death, in which case there will be no
Beneficiary entitled to any benefits under this Plan upon the death of the Participant.   

3.  
   Cause    means, with respect to any Participant who is covered by an employment agreement executed between such Participant and the Company (or one of its subsidiaries)
in which the term is so defined in the employment agreement, the definition of  Cause  set forth in the Participant s employment agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any other Participant, the term
 Cause  shall mean (i) a conviction by a court of competent jurisdiction of a felony; (ii) a refusal, failure or neglect to perform duties in a manner that is materially detrimental to the business or reputation of the Company;
(iii) the engagement in illegal, unethical or other wrongful conduct that is materially detrimental to the business or reputation of the Company; or (iv) the development or pursuit of interests materially adverse to the Company. With
respect to clauses (ii) and (iv) of this Section 1.3,  Cause  shall only exist if the Company has given the Participant thirty (30) days prior written notice of and opportunity to cure any conduct or deficiency in
performance by the Participant that the Company believes constitutes  Cause  under this Section 1.3 and the Participant has not cured such non-compliant conduct or performance during such notice period. Notwithstanding the foregoing,
there will be no thirty (30) day prior notice requirement on the part of the Company or opportunity to cure under clauses (ii) or (iv) of this Section 1.3 if the Company reasonably determines that such non-compliant conduct or
performance cannot be satisfactorily cured.         

4.  
   Change in Control    means, with respect to any Participant who is covered by an employment agreement executed between such Participant and the Company (or one of its
subsidiaries) in which the term is so defined in the employment agreement, the definition of  Change in Control  set forth in the Participant s employment agreement. Notwithstanding the foregoing, with respect to any other
Participant, the term  Change in Control  shall have the same meaning as ascribed thereto in the Caremark Rx, Inc. 2004 Incentive Stock Plan, as amended.         

5.  
   Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or any successor statute.         

6.  
   Committee  means the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of the Company.           
   2   

7.  
   Disabled Participant  means a Participant who makes an application for or is otherwise eligible for disability benefits under any Company-sponsored long-term disability
program and who qualifies for such benefits. In the absence of a Company-sponsored long-term disability program covering a Participant, the Participant shall be treated as a Disabled Participant if the Committee, acting in its sole discretion,
determines that the Participant will be unable to perform his or her employment duties for at least one-hundred eighty (180) consecutive days (or such other period as specified in any Participant s employment agreement) due to a physical
or mental condition.         

8.  
   Employee  means an individual who is an executive employee of the Company or of a subsidiary.         

9.  
   ERISA  means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.         

10.  
   Final Average Compensation    means the average annual base salary paid by the Company to a Participant during the most recent consecutive thirty-six (36) month
period immediately preceding the Retirement Date.         

11.  
   Participant  means an Employee who is designated by the Committee as eligible to participate in the Plan and who is receiving or is eligible to receive any benefit under
this Plan.         

12.  
   Plan Administrator  means the Company s Executive Vice President of Administration and Services or any other person or persons designated as Plan Administrator by
the Committee.         

13.  
   Plan Year  means the calendar year.         

14.  
   Retirement Date    means the first day of the first month that coincides with, or immediately follows, the date on which a Participant s active and full-time
employment is terminated.         

15.  
   Specified Employee  means any Participant who is designated as a  specified employee,  as that term is defined in Code Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i).

16.  
   Spouse    means the individual who as of any day is a Participant s lawful spouse and is not legally separated from such Participant under a final decree of divorce
or separate maintenance.         

17.  
   Successor Employer    means the surviving corporation or entity following a Change in Control.         

18.  
   Years of Service    means, as to each Participant, the number of full twelve (12) month periods during which such Participant was employed with the Company or with
one of its subsidiaries (including employment service with any such entity before it becomes a subsidiary of the Company); provided, that the number of Years of Service that shall be taken into account for any purposes under the Plan shall not
include any Years of Service during which a Participant is a Disabled Participant.           
   3   

2.  
   Retirement Benefit          Subject to Section 8.4, a
Participant who retires from the Company shall receive a benefit paid out on a monthly basis over a ten (10) year period. Except as provided in Article 8, the first monthly installment shall commence as of the Participant s Retirement Date
and each remaining installment shall be paid as of the first day of each month thereafter. The amount of each monthly installment payable to a Participant who retires on or after the date the Participant attains age sixty (60) shall be equal to
one-twelfth (1/12) of the Participant s Accrued Benefit as of the Participant s date of retirement. The amount of each monthly installment payable to a Participant that retires before the date the Participant attains age sixty
(60) shall be equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of the Participant s Accrued Benefit as of the date of retirement, with each monthly payment reduced by one-half percent (0.5%) for each full month between the date benefits commence and the
date the Participant will attain age sixty (60).      The provision of this Article 2 shall not be applicable to any Participant who becomes
entitled to the payment of a benefit under the Plan in accordance with the provisions of Article 3 or Article 4 of the Plan.       

3.  
   Disability Benefit          A Disabled Participant shall
receive a benefit paid out on a monthly basis over a ten (10) year period as provided herein, with the first monthly installment commencing as of the date the Participant attains age 60, and each remaining installment shall be paid as of the
first day of each month thereafter. The amount of each installment payable to such a Disabled Participant shall be equal to one-twelfth (1/12) of the Participant s Accrued Benefit as of the date the Disabled Participant s period of
disability commenced.         
   4   

An individual who ceases to be a Disabled Participant prior to attaining age 60 and who subsequently
resumes employment with the Company may continue to qualify for benefits under Article 2 of the Plan. All other Disabled Participants only shall be eligible for payment of benefits under this Article 3.       

4.  
   Change in Control Benefit          Upon a Change in
Control, and subject to Section 8.4 and the rest of this Article 4, a Participant shall be eligible to receive a benefit payable in monthly installments over a ten (10) year period after the earlier of the date (i) he or she turns
sixty (60) or (ii) he or she turns age fifty-eight (58) and has completed at least fifteen (15) Years of Service. The amount of each monthly installment payable to a Participant shall be determined in accordance with Article 2.
     Notwithstanding Section 8.4, during the first 6 months following a Change in Control, a Participant may provide Successor Employer
with a written request that Successor Employer acknowledge and confirm in writing that Participant will receive his or her Accrued Benefit as set forth in the Plan as in effect upon the occurrence of the Change in Control or a non-qualified
retirement benefit at least comparable in value to the Accrued Benefit determined as of the date of the Change in Control. Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, if Successor Employer fails to timely provide such written
confirmation within 60 days of receipt of Participant s written request, then he or she shall be deemed to have met the continuous employment requirement under Section 8.4.         
   5   

Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, if Successor Employer terminates
Participant s employment prior to the end of the 6-month period following a Change in Control, then he or she shall be deemed to have met the continuous employment requirement under Section 8.4.      Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, if the employment of a Participant is terminated by the Company for Cause, as that term is
defined in Section 1.3 hereof, then the Participant shall not be entitled to the payment of a retirement benefit under the Plan.      If a
benefit is paid out under this Article 4 to a Participant, then he or she shall not be eligible for any other benefits under this Plan.       

5.  
   Death Benefit          If a Participant dies while an
active Employee of the Company and before receipt of any benefits under this Plan, then in lieu of any other benefits that might otherwise be payable under this Plan, his or her Beneficiary, if any, shall be entitled to receive a benefit payable
over a ten (10) year period commencing as of the first day of the month following the date the Participant would have reached age 60. Such benefit will be paid on a monthly basis and each monthly benefit will be equal to one-twelfth
(1/12) of the Participant s Accrued Benefit as of his or her date of death. All remaining payments due to a Beneficiary, if any, shall cease upon the Beneficiary s death.         
   6   

6.  
   Post-Retirement Death Benefit          If a Participant
dies on or after the date benefits commence under this Plan, all remaining installments due to him or her after his or her date of death will be paid as soon as administratively practicable to his or her Beneficiary, if any, in a lump sum cash
distribution equal to the present value of such remaining installments as of the date of payment. The present value of the lump sum benefit shall be determined by the Committee based on the average 10 (ten) year Treasury constant maturity rate over
the immediate 12 (twelve) month period before any such payment is to be made.       

7.  
   Source of Records and Benefit Payments           

1.  
   Records . All records relating to the accrual and disbursement of benefits to, or on behalf of, Participants under this Plan shall be maintained by the Plan Administrator.

2.  
   Participant List . The Plan Administrator shall at all times maintain a current list of all Participants, and of all other persons receiving benefits, and said list shall
contain such other information as the Plan Administrator shall deem appropriate.         

3.  
   Source of Benefit Payments . Any person who claims a benefit under this Plan shall look solely to the general assets of the Company. Such person s interest in such assets
as a result of such claim shall in no matter whatsoever be superior or senior to the claim of any other general and unsecured creditor of the Company, and in no event whatsoever shall any other person whomsoever be liable to pay such benefits.

8.  
   Special Provisions           

1.  
   Forfeiture of Plan Benefit . A Participant who violates the terms of any restrictive covenants, including but not limited to non-compete and non-solicitation covenants,
applicable to such Participant as a result of a period of employment or a period of service as a consultant with respect to the Company (or its subsidiaries) shall forfeit the payment of any benefits otherwise payable thereto under the Plan.
          
   7   

2.  
   Delay in Payments to Specified Employees . The first installment due to be made under the Plan to a Participant who is a Specified Employee shall not commence earlier than the
first day of the seventh month following the day the Specified Employee retires (or, if earlier, the date of death of the Specified Employee). All remaining payments will be paid as of the first day of each month thereafter.

3.  
   Compliance with Code Section 409A . This Plan shall be operated and interpreted in accordance with Code Section 409A, any regulations promulgated thereunder or any
other applicable guidance.         

4.  
   Continuous Employment . Notwithstanding any provision herein to the contrary, no benefit will be payable under this Plan unless a Participant is continuously employed with the
Company through the earliest of: (i) the date on which he or she becomes a Disabled Participant, (ii) his or her Retirement Date at any time after attaining age fifty-eight (58) and completing at least fifteen (15) or more Years
of Service or (iii) the date on which the Participant is deemed to meet the continuous employment requirement as provided under Article 4.         

5.  
   Continuous Accruals . Upon a Change in Control, a Participant shall continue to accrue Years of Service for purposes of determining his or her Accrued Benefit under the Plan,
subject to the 20-year cap. Notwithstanding the foregoing, any Participant who commences distribution of benefits under this Plan no longer shall accrue any Accrued Benefit hereunder.         

9.  
   Functions of the Committee           

1.  
   General . The Committee shall be the Named Fiduciary for the Plan. A member of the Committee may be a Participant but, in such case, a claim submitted by one member of the
Committee as a Participant shall be reviewed by one or more other members of the Committee.        In addition to any other
indemnity or similar rights applicable to the Committee, the Company shall indemnify each member of the Committee for any liability, assessment, loss, expense or other cost of any kind or description whatsoever, including legal fees and expenses,
actually incurred by a member on account of any action or proceeding, actual or threatened, that arise as a result of being a member of the Committee or as a result of any actions or inactions of any member(s) of the Committee.         
   8   

2.  
   Powers . The Committee shall have control over the administration of the Plan, with all powers necessary to enable it properly to carry out its duties in this respect,
including, without limitation, the designation of Employees as Participants and the power to waive any conditions or limitations stated in the Plan whenever the Committee, acting in its absolute discretion, deems such a waiver to be appropriate
under the circumstances. Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, the Committee, acting in its sole discretion, may credit any Participant with additional Years of Service (not to exceed a maximum of 20), including but not limited
to the crediting of employment service completed while employed by a business acquired by the Company. The Committee may appoint in writing such agents as it may deem necessary for the effective performance of its duties, and may delegate to such
agents those powers and duties, whether ministerial or discretionary, that it deems expedient or appropriate. In the event that any agent so appointed is not an employee of the Company, such agent s compensation shall be fixed by the Committee
and shall be paid by the Company.         

10.  
   Amendment and Termination           

1.  
   Amendment . This Plan may be amended in any respect and at any time by the Committee in the exercise of its sole discretion. Any such amendment automatically shall be binding
on each Participant; provided, that no such amendment may reduce the level of non-forfeitable benefit accrued by a Participant under the Plan as of the date the amendment is adopted. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the
event that the Committee determines that any provision of the Plan may cause amounts deferred under the Plan to become immediately taxable to any Participant under Code Section 409A, and related guidance, the Committee may (i) adopt such
amendments to the Plan and appropriate policies and procedures, including amendments and policies with retroactive effect, that the Committee determines necessary or appropriate to preserve the intended tax treatment of the Plan benefits provided by
the Plan and/or (ii) take such other actions as the Committee determines necessary or appropriate to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A, and related guidance.           
   9   

2.  
   Termination . The Plan may be terminated at any time by the Committee and all benefits shall be paid out in the form of lump sum payments beginning twelve (12) months
after the termination of the Plan, provided, that (i) all other non-qualified nonaccount deferred compensation balance plans and arrangements maintained by the Company are terminated with respect to all Participants; (ii) no payments other
than those otherwise payable under the terms of the Plan absent a termination of the Plan are made within twelve (12) months of the termination of the Plan; (iii) all payments are made within twenty-four (24) months of the termination
of the Plan; and (iv) the Company does not adopt another non-qualified nonaccount balance deferred compensation plan at any time for a period of five (5) years following the date of termination of the Plan.        In the event that the Plan is terminated in accordance with this Article 10, no such termination may reduce the level of non-forfeitable benefits accrued
by a Participant under the Plan as of the date the termination is effective.       

1.  
   Headings . The headings and subheadings in the Plan have been inserted for convenience of reference only and are to be ignored in any construction of the Plan provisions.

2.  
   Construction . In the construction of the Plan, the singular shall include the plural in all cases in which such meaning would be appropriate. This Plan shall be construed in
accordance with the laws of the State of Tennessee.         

3.  
   Agent for Service of Process . The agent for service of process for the Plan shall be the person currently listed in the records of the Secretary of State of Tennessee as the
agent for service of process for the Company.         

4.  
   Plan Administrator . The Plan Administrator shall be the plan administrator of the Plan, to the extent ERISA applies.         

5.  
   No Assignment by Participants . The benefits provided under this Plan may not be alienated, encumbered or assigned by a Participant or Spouse.         

6.  
   Successors and Assigns to the Company . The rights and obligations of the Company under this Plan shall be binding on and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors
and permitted assigns.         

7.  
   Effect of Plan . This Plan shall not constitute a contract of employment for any definite term and shall not affect or impair the right of either party to terminate the
employment relationship at any time.           
   10   

8.  
   Legal Competency . The Committee may, in its discretion, make payment either directly to an incompetent or disabled person, or to the guardian of such person, or to the person
having custody of such person, without further liability on the part of the Company, the Committee, or any person, for the amounts of such payment to the person on whose account such payment is made.         
       
   11   

</EX-10.11>

<EX-10.19>
 4
 dex1019.htm
 CAREMARK RX INC. DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

Caremark Rx Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan 

Exhibit 10.19          Caremark Rx, Inc.        Deferred Compensation Plan    

TABLE OF CONTENTS       Effective April 1, 2005       
       
   i   

ii   

CAREMARK RX, INC.      DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN      Effective April 1, 2005       Purpose       The purpose of this Plan is to provide specified benefits to
a select group of management or highly compensated Employees who contribute materially to the continued growth, development and future business success of Caremark Rx, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its subsidiaries, if any, that sponsor this
Plan. This Plan shall be unfunded for tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of ERISA. The Plan is effective as of April 1, 2005.      ARTICLE 1      Definitions      For the
purposes of this Plan, unless otherwise clearly apparent from the context, the following phrases or terms shall have the indicated meanings:       Annual Deferral Amount  shall mean that portion of a Participant s Base Salary and/or Bonus, that a Participant defers in accordance with Article 3 for any one Plan Year, without regard to whether such amounts are
withheld and credited during such Plan Year. In the event of a Participant s Retirement, Disability, death or Termination of Employment prior to the end of a Plan Year, such year s Annual Deferral Amount shall be the actual amount withheld
prior to such event.       Annual Installment Method  shall be an annual installment payment over the number of years selected by the
Participant in accordance with this Plan, calculated as follows: (i) for the first annual installment, the Participant s Deferral Account shall be valued as of the close of business on or around the Participant s Benefit Distribution
Date, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, and (ii) for remaining annual installments, the Participant s Deferred Account shall be valued on every anniversary of such calculation date, as applicable. Each annual
installment shall be calculated by multiplying this balance by a fraction, the numerator of which is one and the denominator of which is the remaining number of annual payments due the Participant.       Base Salary  shall mean the annual cash compensation relating to services performed during any calendar year, including commissions payments,
but excluding distributions from nonqualified deferred compensation plans, bonuses, overtime, fringe benefits, stock options, relocation expenses, incentive payments, non-monetary awards, director fees and other fees, and automobile and other
allowances paid to a Participant for employment services rendered (whether or not such allowances are included in the Employee s gross income). Base Salary shall be calculated before reduction for compensation voluntarily deferred or
contributed by the Participant pursuant to all qualified or nonqualified plans of any Employer and shall be calculated to include amounts not otherwise included in the Participant s gross income under Code Sections 125 or 402(e)(3) pursuant to
plans established by any Employer; provided, that all such amounts will be included in compensation only to the extent that had there been no such plan, the amount would have been payable in cash to the Employee.       Beneficiary  shall mean one or more persons, trusts, estates or other entities, designated in accordance with Article 9, that are entitled
to receive benefits under this Plan upon the death of a Participant.         
   1   

Beneficiary Designation Form  shall mean the form established from time to time by the
Committee that a Participant completes, signs and returns to the Committee to designate one or more Beneficiaries.       Benefit
Distribution Date  shall mean the date that triggers distribution of a Participant s Deferral Account. A Participant s Benefit Distribution Date shall be determined upon the occurrence of any one of the following:      If the Participant Retires, his or her Benefit Distribution Date shall be (i) the last day of the six-month period immediately following the date on
which the Participant Retires if the Participant is a Key Employee, and (ii) for all other Participants, the last business day of the Plan Year in which the Participant Retires; provided, in the event the Participant changes his or her
Retirement Benefit election in accordance with Section 5.2(a), his or her Benefit Distribution Date shall be no sooner than the five (5) year anniversary of the otherwise applicable Benefit Distribution Date;      If the Participant experiences a Termination of Employment, his or her Benefit Distribution Date shall be (i) the last day of the six-month period
immediately following the date on which the Participant experiences a Termination of Employment if the Participant is a Key Employee, and (ii) for all other Participants, the last business day of the Plan Year in which the Participant
experiences a Termination of Employment; provided, in the event the Participant changes his or her Termination Benefit election in accordance with Section 6.2(a), his or her Benefit Distribution Date shall be no sooner than the five
(5) year anniversary of the otherwise applicable Benefit Distribution Date;      The date on which the Committee is provided with proof that is
satisfactory to the Committee of the Participant s death, if the Participant dies prior to the complete distribution of his or her Deferral Account; or      The date on which the Participant becomes Disabled.       Board  shall mean the board of directors of the Company.
      Bonus  shall mean any compensation earned by a Participant for services rendered with respect to any Plan Year under any
Employer s annual bonus and cash incentive plans.       Change in Control  shall mean any change in the ownership or effective
control of the Company that qualifies as a  change in control  under the provisions of Section 409A(a)(2)(A)(v) of the Code, as amended.       Claimant  shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14.1.       Code  shall mean the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.       Committee  shall mean the committee described in
Article ARTICLE 12.       Company  shall mean Caremark Rx, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any corporate successor thereto.
      Death Benefit  shall mean the benefit set forth in Article 8.       Deferral Account  shall mean (i) the sum of all of a Participant s Annual Deferral Amounts, plus (ii) amounts credited or
debited to the Participant s Deferral Account in accordance with this Plan, less (iii) all distributions made to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary pursuant to this Plan that relate to his or her Deferral Account. The Deferral
Account shall be a bookkeeping entry only and shall be utilized solely as a device for the measurement and determination of the amounts to be paid to a Participant, or his or her designated Beneficiary, pursuant to this Plan.       Disability  or  Disabled  shall mean that a Participant is (i) unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of
any medically determinable physical or mental  
       
   2   

impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or (ii) by reason of
any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than 3
months under an accident or health plan covering employees of the Participant s Employer.       Disability Benefit  shall mean
the benefit set forth in Article 7.       Election Form  shall mean the form established from time to time by the Committee that
a Participant completes, signs and returns to the Committee to make an election under the Plan.       Employee  shall mean a person
who is a common law employee of any Employer.       Employer(s)  shall mean the Company and/or any of its subsidiaries (now in
existence or hereafter formed or acquired) that have been selected by the Board to participate in the Plan and have adopted the Plan as a sponsor.       ERISA  shall mean the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as it may be amended from time to time.       Key Employee  shall mean any Participant who the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines is a  key employee  of any Employer, as defined in Code Section 416(i).  Participant  shall mean any Employee
(i) who is selected to participate in the Plan, (ii) who submits an executed Plan Agreement, Election Form and Beneficiary Designation Form, which are accepted by the Committee, and (iii) whose Plan Agreement has not terminated.
      Plan  shall mean the Caremark Rx, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, which shall be evidenced by this instrument and by each Plan
Agreement, as they may be amended from time to time.       Plan Agreement  shall mean a written agreement, as may be amended from time
to time, which is entered into by and between an Employer and a Participant. Each Plan Agreement executed by a Participant and the Participant s Employer shall provide for the entire benefit to which such Participant is entitled under the Plan;
should there be more than one Plan Agreement, the Plan Agreement bearing the latest date of acceptance by the Employer shall supersede all previous Plan Agreements in their entirety and shall govern such entitlement. The terms of any Plan Agreement
may be different for any Participant, and any Plan Agreement may provide additional benefits not set forth in the Plan or limit the benefits otherwise provided under the Plan; provided, that any such additional benefits or benefit limitations must
be agreed to by both the Employer and the Participant.       Plan Year  shall mean a period beginning on January 1 of each
calendar year and continuing through December 31 of such calendar year; provided, that the first Plan Year shall consist only of the period beginning on April 1, 2005 and ending on December 31, 2005.       Retirement ,  Retire(s)  or  Retired  shall mean, with respect to an Employee, separation from service with all Employers
for any reason other than a leave of absence, death or Disability on or after the earlier of the attainment age sixty-five (65).       Retirement Benefit  shall mean the benefit set forth in Article 5.       Scheduled Distribution  shall mean
the distribution set forth in Section 4.1.         
   3   

Terminate the Plan ,  Termination of the Plan  shall mean a determination by an
Employer s board of directors that (i) all of its Participants no longer shall be eligible to participate in the Plan, (ii) all deferral elections for such Participants shall terminate, and (iii) such Participants no longer shall
be eligible to receive company contributions under this Plan.       Termination Benefit  shall mean the benefit set forth in
Article 6.       Termination of Employment  shall mean the separation from service with all Employers, voluntarily or
involuntarily, for any reason other than Retirement, Disability, death or an authorized leave of absence.       Trust  shall mean one
or more trusts established by the Company in accordance with Article 15.       Unforeseeable Financial Emergency  shall mean an
unanticipated emergency that is caused by an event beyond the control of the Participant that would result in severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from (i) a sudden and unexpected illness or accident of the Participant, the
Participant s spouse, or a dependent of the Participant, (ii) a loss of the Participant s property due to casualty, or (iii) such other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond
the control of the Participant, all as determined in the sole discretion of the Committee.      ARTICLE 2      Selection, Enrollment, Eligibility      2.1  Selection by
Committee . Participation in the Plan shall be limited to a select group of management or highly compensated Employees selected as eligible to participate in the Plan, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.      2.2  Enrollment and Eligibility Requirements; Commencement of Participation .      As a condition to participation, each selected Employee who is eligible to participate in the Plan effective as of the first day of a Plan Year shall complete, execute and return to the Committee a Plan Agreement, an Election Form and a
Beneficiary Designation Form, prior to the first day of such Plan Year, or such other deadline as may be established by the Committee in its sole discretion as permitted by applicable law. In addition, the Committee shall establish from time to time
such other enrollment requirements as it determines, in its sole discretion, are necessary.      A selected Employee who first becomes eligible to participate
in this Plan after the first day of a Plan Year must complete these requirements within thirty (30) days after he or she first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, or within such other deadline as may be established by the Committee, in
its sole discretion, as permitted by applicable law, in order to participate for that Plan Year. In such event, such person s participation in this Plan shall not commence earlier than the date determined by the Committee pursuant to this
Section 2.2(b) and such person shall not be permitted to defer under this Plan any portion of his or her Base Salary and/or Bonus that are paid with respect to services performed prior to his or her participation commencement date.   
  Each selected Employee who is eligible to participate in the Plan shall commence participation in the Plan on the date that the Committee determines, in its sole
discretion, that the Employee has met all enrollment requirements set forth in this Plan and required by the Committee, including returning all required documents to the Committee within the specified time period. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Committee shall process such Participant s deferral election as soon as administratively practicable after such deferral election is submitted to and accepted by the Committee.         
   4   

If an Employee fails to meet all requirements contained in this Section 2.2 within the period required, that
Employee shall not be eligible to participate in the Plan during such Plan Year.      2.3  Termination of a Participant s Eligibility . If the
Committee determines that a Participant no longer qualifies as a member of a select group of management or highly compensated employees, as membership in such group is determined in accordance with Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1) of ERISA,
the Committee shall have the right, in its sole discretion, to (i) terminate any deferral election the Participant has made for the remainder of the Plan Year in which the Committee makes such determination, (ii) prevent the Participant
from making future deferral elections, and/or (iii) take further action that the Committee deems appropriate. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of a Termination of the Plan in accordance with Section 1.30, the termination of the
affected Participants  eligibility for participation in the Plan shall not be governed by this Section 2.3, but rather shall be governed by Section 1.30 and Section 11.1. In the event that a Participant no longer is eligible to
defer compensation under this Plan, the Participant s Deferral Account shall continue to be governed by the terms of this Plan until such time as the Participant s Deferral Account is paid in accordance with the terms of this Plan.
     ARTICLE 3      Deferral Commitments
/Crediting/Taxes      3.1  Deferral Rules .       Annual
Deferral Amount.  For each Plan Year, a Participant may elect to defer, as his or her Annual Deferral Amount, Base Salary and/or Bonus, provided that the minimum percentage of Base Salary or Bonus that can be deferred in any calendar year shall
be five percent (5%). The Committee shall establish procedures that govern deferral elections under the Plan, including the ability to make separate deferral elections for Base Salary, or any portion thereof, and for Bonuses. If the Committee
determines, in its sole discretion, prior to the beginning of a Plan Year that a Participant has made an election for less than the stated minimum amounts, or if no election is made, the amount deferred shall be zero. If the Committee determines, in
its sole discretion, at any time after the beginning of a Plan Year that a Participant has deferred less than the stated minimum amounts for that Plan Year, any amount credited to the Participant s Deferral Account as the Annual Deferral Amount
for that Plan Year shall be distributed to the Participant within ninety (90) days after the last day of the Plan Year in which the Committee determination was made. Each Participant may elect to defer a maximum percentage of his or her Base
Salary equal to seventy five percent (75%) and a maximum percentage of his or her Bonus equal to one hundred percent (100%). Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, no deferrals of Base Salary may be made under the Plan
until the Committee takes action to authorize the commencement of such deferrals.       Short Plan Year . Notwithstanding the foregoing, and unless the
Committee elects to waive this provision, if a Participant first becomes a Participant after the first day of a Plan Year, the minimum Annual Deferral Amount shall be an amount equal to the minimum set forth above, multiplied by a fraction, the
numerator of which is the number of complete months remaining in the Plan Year and the denominator of which is 12. In  
       
   5   

addition, if a Participant first becomes a Participant after the first day of a Plan Year, the maximum Annual Deferral Amount shall be limited to the amount
of compensation not yet earned by the Participant as of the date the Participant submits a Plan Agreement and Election Form to the Committee for acceptance.      3.2  Election to Defer; Effect of Election Form .       First Plan Year . In connection with a Participant s commencement of
participation in the Plan, the Participant shall make an irrevocable deferral election for the Plan Year in which the Participant commences participation in the Plan, along with such other elections as the Committee deems necessary or desirable
under the Plan. For these elections to be valid, the Election Form must be completed and signed by the Participant, timely delivered to the Committee (in accordance with Section 2.2 above) and accepted by the Committee.       Subsequent Plan Years.  For each succeeding Plan Year, an irrevocable deferral election for that Plan Year, and such other elections as the Committee deems
necessary or desirable under the Plan, shall be made by timely delivering a new Election Form to the Committee, in accordance with its rules and procedures, before the end of the Plan Year preceding the Plan Year for which the election is made. If
no such Election Form is timely delivered for a Plan Year, the Annual Deferral Amount shall be zero for that Plan Year.       Performance-Based
Compensation . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine that an irrevocable deferral election pertaining to performance-based compensation may be made by timely delivering a new Election Form to the
Committee, in accordance with its rules and procedures, no later than six (6) months before the end of the performance service period.  Performance-based compensation  shall be compensation based on services performed over a period of
at least twelve (12) months, in accordance with Code Section 409A and related guidance.      3.3  Withholding and Crediting of Annual Deferral
Amounts . For each Plan Year, the Base Salary portion of the Annual Deferral Amount shall be withheld from each regularly scheduled Base Salary payroll in equal amounts, as adjusted from time to time for increases and decreases in Base Salary.
The Bonus portion of the Annual Deferral Amount shall be withheld at the time the Bonus, is or otherwise would be paid to the Participant, whether or not this occurs during the Plan Year itself. Annual Deferral Amounts shall be credited to a
Participant s Deferral Account at the time such amounts otherwise would have been paid to the Participant.      3.4  Crediting of Amounts after Benefit
Distribution . Notwithstanding any provision in this Plan to the contrary, should the complete distribution of a Participant s Deferral Account occur prior to the date on which any portion of the Annual Deferral Amount that a Participant has
elected to defer in accordance with Section 3.2 otherwise would be credited to the Participant s Deferral Account, such amounts shall not be credited to the Participant s Deferral Account, but shall be paid to the Participant in a
manner determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion.      3.5  Vesting . A Participant shall at all times be 100% vested in his or her Deferral
Account.         
   6   

3.6  Crediting/Debiting of Deferral Accounts . In accordance with, and subject to, the rules and procedures that are
established from time to time by the Committee, in its sole discretion, amounts shall be credited or debited to a Participant s Deferral Account in accordance with the following rules:       Measurement Funds . The Participant may elect one or more of the measurement funds selected by the Committee, in its sole discretion, which are
based on certain mutual funds (the  Measurement Funds ), for the purpose of crediting or debiting additional amounts to his or her Deferral Account. As necessary, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, discontinue, substitute or add a
Measurement Fund. Each such action will take effect as of the first day of the first calendar quarter that begins at least thirty (30) days after the day on which the Committee gives Participants advance written notice of such change.
      Election of Measurement Funds . A Participant, in connection with his or her initial deferral election in accordance with
Section 3.2(a) above, shall elect, on the Election Form, one or more Measurement Fund(s) (as described in Section 3.6(a) above) to be used to determine the amounts to be credited or debited to his or her Deferral Account. If a Participant
does not elect any of the Measurement Funds as described in the previous sentence, the Participant s Deferral Account automatically shall be allocated into the lowest-risk Measurement Fund, as determined by the Committee, in its sole
discretion.      The Participant may (but is not required to) elect, by submitting an Election Form to the Committee that is accepted by the
Committee, to add or delete one or more Measurement Fund(s) to be used to determine the amounts to be credited or debited to his or her Deferral Account, or to change the portion of his or her Deferral Account allocated to each previously or newly
elected Measurement Fund. If an election is made in accordance with the previous sentence, it shall apply as of the first business day deemed reasonably practicable by the Committee, in its sole discretion, and shall continue thereafter for each
subsequent day in which the Participant participates in the Plan, unless changed in accordance with the previous sentence.       Proportionate
Allocation . In making any election described in Section 3.6(b) above, the Participant shall specify on the Election Form, in increments of one percent (1%), the percentage of his or her Deferral Account or Measurement Fund, as applicable,
to be allocated/reallocated.       Crediting or Debiting Method . The performance of each Measurement Fund (either positive or negative)
will be determined on a daily basis based on the manner in which such Participant s Deferral Account has been hypothetically allocated among the Measurement Funds by the Participant.       No Actual Investment . Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan that may be interpreted to the contrary, the Measurement Funds are to be
used for measurement purposes only, and a Participant s election of any such Measurement Fund, the allocation of his or her Deferral Account thereto, the calculation of additional amounts and the crediting or debiting of such amounts to a
Participant s Deferral Account  shall not  be considered or construed in any manner as an actual investment of his or her Deferral Account in any such Measurement Fund. In the event that the Company or the Trustee (as that term is defined
in the Trust), in its own discretion, decides to invest funds in any or all of the investments on which the Measurement Funds are based, no Participant shall have any rights in or to such investments themselves. Without limiting the foregoing, a
Participant s Deferral Account shall at all times be a bookkeeping entry only and shall not represent any investment made on his or her behalf by the Company or the Trust; the Participant shall at all times remain an unsecured creditor of the
Company.         
   7   

3.7  FICA and Other Taxes .       Annual Deferral Amounts.  For each Plan Year in which an Annual Deferral Amount is being withheld from a Participant, the Participant s
Employer(s) shall withhold from that portion of the Participant s Base Salary and/or Bonus that is not being deferred, in a manner determined by the Employer(s), the Participant s share of FICA and other employment taxes on such Annual
Deferral Amount. If necessary, the Committee may reduce the Annual Deferral Amount in order to comply with this Section 3.7.       Distributions . The Participant s Employer(s), or the trustee of the Trust, shall withhold from any payments made to a Participant under this Plan all federal, state and local income, employment and other taxes required to be
withheld by the Employer(s), or the trustee of the Trust, in connection with such payments, in amounts and in a manner to be determined in the sole discretion of the Employer(s) and the trustee of the Trust.      ARTICLE 4      Scheduled Distribution;
Unforeseeable Financial Emergencies      4.1  Scheduled Distribution . In connection with each election to defer an Annual Deferral Amount, a Participant
may irrevocably elect to receive a Scheduled Distribution, in the form of a lump sum payment, from the Plan with respect to all or a portion of the Annual Deferral Amount. The Scheduled Distribution shall be a lump sum payment in an amount that is
equal to the portion of the Annual Deferral Amount the Participant elected to have distributed as a Scheduled Distribution, plus amounts credited or debited in the manner provided in Section 3.6 above on that amount, calculated as of the close
of business on or around the date on which the Scheduled Distribution becomes payable, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. Subject to the other terms and conditions of this Plan, each Scheduled Distribution elected shall be paid
out during a ninety (90) day period commencing immediately after the first day of any Plan Year designated by the Participant. The Plan Year designated by the Participant must be at least three (3) Plan Years after the end of the Plan Year
to which the Participant s deferral election described in Section 3.2 relates.      4.2  Postponing Scheduled Distributions . A Participant may
elect to postpone a Scheduled Distribution described in Section 4.1 above, and have such amount paid out during a ninety (90) day period commencing immediately after an allowable alternative distribution date designated by the Participant
in accordance with this Section 4.2. In order to make this election, the Participant must submit a new Scheduled Distribution Election Form to the Committee in accordance with the following criteria:      Such Scheduled Distribution Election Form must be submitted to and accepted by the Committee in its sole discretion at least twelve (12) months prior
to the Participant s previously designated Scheduled Distribution Date;      The new Scheduled Distribution Date selected by the
Participant must be the first day of a Plan Year, and must be at least five years after the previously designated Scheduled Distribution Date; and      The election of the new Scheduled Distribution Date shall have no effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the election is made.      4.3  Other Benefits Take Precedence Over Scheduled Distributions . Should a Benefit Distribution Date occur that triggers a benefit under Articles 5, 6, 7 or 8, any Annual Deferral Amount that is subject to a
Scheduled Distribution election under Section 4.1 shall not be paid in accordance with Section 4.1, but shall be paid in accordance with the other applicable Article. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall interpret this
Section 4.3 in a manner that is consistent with Code Section 409A and other applicable tax law, including but not limited to guidance issued after the effective date of this Plan.         
   8   

4.4  Withdrawal Payout/Suspensions for Unforeseeable Financial Emergencies . If the Participant experiences an
Unforeseeable Financial Emergency, the Participant may petition the Committee to suspend deferrals of Base Salary and/or Bonus Amounts to the extent deemed necessary by the Committee to satisfy the Unforeseeable Financial Emergency. If suspension of
deferrals is not sufficient to satisfy the Participant s Unforeseeable Financial Emergency, or if suspension of deferrals is not required or permitted under Code Section 409A and other applicable tax law, the Participant may further
petition the Committee to receive a partial or full payout from the Plan. The Participant shall only receive a payout from the Plan to the extent such payout is deemed necessary by the Committee to satisfy the Participant s Unforeseeable
Financial Emergency, plus amounts reasonably necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution.      The payout shall not exceed
the lesser of (i) the Participant s Deferral Account, valued as of the close of business on or around the date on which the amount becomes payable, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, or (ii) the amount necessary to
satisfy the Unforeseeable Financial Emergency, plus amounts reasonably necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of the distribution. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant may not receive a payout from the Plan to the extent
that the Unforeseeable Financial Emergency is or may be relieved (A) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, (B) by liquidation of the Participant s assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would
not itself cause severe financial hardship or (C) by suspension of deferrals under this Plan, if the Committee, in its sole discretion, determines that suspension is required or permitted by Code Section 409A and other applicable tax law.
     If the Committee, in its sole discretion, approves a Participant s petition for suspension, the Participant s deferrals under this Plan shall be
suspended as of the date of such approval. If the Committee, in its sole discretion, approves a Participant s petition for suspension and payout, the Participant s deferrals under this Plan shall be suspended as of the date of such
approval and the Participant shall receive a payout from the Plan within ninety (90) days of the date of such approval.      Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Committee shall interpret all provisions relating to suspension and/or payout under this Section 4.4 in a manner that is consistent with Code Section 409A and other applicable tax law, including but not limited to guidance
issued after the effective date of this Plan.      ARTICLE 5      Retirement Benefit      5.1  Retirement Benefit . A Participant who Retires shall receive, as a Retirement Benefit, his or
her Deferral Account, valued as of the close of business on or around the Participant s Benefit Distribution Date, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.      5.2  Payment of Retirement Benefit .      A Participant, in connection with his or her commencement of participation in the
Plan, shall elect on an Election Form to receive the Retirement Benefit in a lump sum or pursuant to an Annual Installment Method of up to fifteen (15) years. The Participant may change this election by submitting an Election Form to the
Committee in accordance with the following criteria:      Such Election Form must be submitted to and accepted by the Committee in its sole
discretion at least twelve (12) months prior to the Participant s originally scheduled Benefit Distribution Date described in Section 1.6(a); and         

   9   

The first Retirement Benefit payment is delayed at least five (5) years from the Participant s
originally scheduled Benefit Distribution Date described in Section 1.6(a); and      The election to modify the Retirement Benefit shall
have no effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the election is made; and      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Committee shall interpret all provisions relating to changing the Retirement Benefit election under this Section 5.2 in a manner that is consistent with Code Section 409A and other applicable tax law, including but not limited to guidance
issued after the effective date of this Plan. Accordingly, if a Participant s subsequent Retirement Benefit distribution election would result in the shortening of the length of the Retirement Benefit payment period (e.g., a Participant changes
an existing distribution election from annual installments to a lump sum payment; from 15 annual installments to 5 annual installments, etc.), and the Committee determines such election to be inconsistent with Code Section 409A or other
applicable tax law, the election shall not be effective.      The Election Form most recently accepted by the Committee shall govern the payout
of the Retirement Benefit. If a Participant does not make any election with respect to the payment of the Retirement Benefit in connection with his or her commencement of participation in the Plan, then such Participant shall be deemed to have
elected to receive the Retirement Benefit in a lump sum.      The lump sum payment shall be made, or installment payments shall commence, no
later than ninety (90) days after the Participant s Benefit Distribution Date. Remaining installments, if any, shall be paid no later than ninety (90) days after each anniversary of the Participant s Benefit Distribution Date.
     ARTICLE 6      Termination Benefit
     6.1  Termination Benefit . A Participant who experiences a Termination of Employment shall receive, as a Termination Benefit, his or her Deferral
Account, valued as of the close of business on or around the Participant s Benefit Distribution Date, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.      6.2  Payment of Termination Benefit .      A Participant, in connection with his or her commencement of participation in the Plan, shall elect on
an Election Form to receive the Termination Benefit in a lump sum or pursuant to an Annual Installment Method of up to five (5) years. The Participant may change this election by submitting an Election Form to the Committee in accordance with
the following criteria:      Such Election Form must be submitted to and accepted by the Committee in its sole discretion at least twelve
(12) months prior to the Participant s originally scheduled Benefit Distribution Date described in Section 1.6(b); and         
   10   

The first Termination Benefit payment is delayed at least five (5) years from the Participant s
originally scheduled Benefit Distribution Date described in Section 1.6(b); and      The election to modify the Termination Benefit shall
have no effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the election is made; and      Notwithstanding the foregoing, the
Committee shall interpret all provisions relating to changing the Termination Benefit election under this Section 6.2 in a manner that is consistent with Code Section 409A and other applicable tax law, including but not limited to guidance
issued after the effective date of this Plan. Accordingly, if a Participant s subsequent Termination Benefit distribution election would result in the shortening of the length of the Termination Benefit payment period (e.g., a Participant
changes an existing distribution election from annual installments to a lump sum payment; from 5 annual installments to 3 annual installments, etc.), and the Committee determines such election to be inconsistent with Code Section 409A and other
applicable tax law, the election shall not be effective.      The Election Form most recently accepted by the Committee shall govern the payout
of the Termination Benefit. If a Participant does not make any election with respect to the payment of the Termination Benefit in connection with his or her commencement of participation in the Plan, then such Participant shall be deemed to have
elected to receive the Termination Benefit in a lump sum.      The lump sum payment shall be made, or installment payments shall commence, no
later than ninety (90) days after the Participant s Benefit Distribution Date. Remaining installments, if any, shall be paid no later than ninety (90) days after each anniversary of the Participant s Benefit Distribution Date.
     6.3  Change in Control . Notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary, in the event that the employment of a qualifying Participant, as
determined herein, is involuntarily terminated as of any date within six (6) months of the occurrence of a Change in Control, such a Participant shall become entitled to receive, as a Termination Benefit, his or her Deferral Account valued as
of the close of business on or around the Participant s Benefit Distribution Date, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion. Any payment made in accordance with this Section 6.3 shall be made in the form of a lump sum cash
payment within ninety (90) days of the date of such termination of employment. The only Participants who qualify for coverage under this Section 6.3 shall be the president of the Company and the thirty (30) next highest compensated
officers of the Company determined as of the date of the Change in Control.      ARTICLE 7      Disability Benefit      7.1  Disability Benefit . Upon a
Participant s Disability, the Participant shall receive a Disability Benefit, which shall be equal to the Participant s Deferral Account, calculated as of the close of business on or around the Participant s Benefit Distribution Date,
as selected by the Committee in its sole discretion.      7.2  Payment of Disability Benefit . The Disability Benefit shall be paid to the Participant in
a lump sum payment no later than ninety (90) days after the Participant s Benefit Distribution Date.         
   11   

ARTICLE 8      Death Benefit      8.1  Death Benefit . The Participant s Beneficiary(ies) shall receive a Death Benefit upon the
Participant s death which will be equal to the Participant s Deferral Account, calculated as of the close of business on or around the Participant s Benefit Distribution Date, as selected by the Committee in its sole discretion.
     8.2  Payment of Death Benefit . The Death Benefit shall be paid to the Participant s Beneficiary(ies) in a lump sum payment no later than ninety
(90) days after the Participant s Benefit Distribution Date.      ARTICLE 9      Beneficiary Designation      9.1  Beneficiary . Each Participant shall have the right, at any time, to
designate his or her Beneficiary(ies) (both primary as well as contingent) to receive any benefits payable under the Plan to a beneficiary upon the death of a Participant. All such Beneficiary(ies) designations shall be made in accordance with rules
and procedures established by the Committee in its sole discretion. The Beneficiary designated under this Plan may be the same as or different from the Beneficiary designation under any other plan of an Employer in which the Participant
participates.      9.2  Beneficiary Designation; Change; Spousal Consent . A Participant shall designate his or her Beneficiary by completing and signing
the Beneficiary Designation Form, and returning it to the Committee or its designated agent. A Participant shall have the right to change a Beneficiary by completing, signing and otherwise complying with the terms of the Beneficiary Designation Form
and the Committee s rules and procedures, as in effect from time to time. If the Participant names someone other than his or her spouse as a Beneficiary, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine that spousal consent is required to
be provided in a form designated by the Committee, executed by such Participant s spouse and returned to the Committee. Upon the acceptance by the Committee of a new Beneficiary Designation Form, all Beneficiary designations previously filed
shall be canceled. The Committee shall be entitled to rely on the last Beneficiary Designation Form filed by the Participant and accepted by the Committee prior to his or her death.      9.3  Acknowledgment . No designation or change in designation of a Beneficiary shall be effective until received and acknowledged in writing by the Committee or its designated agent.      9.4  No Beneficiary Designation . If a Participant fails to designate a Beneficiary as provided in Sections 9.1, 9.2 and 9.3 above or, if all designated
Beneficiaries predecease the Participant or die prior to complete distribution of the Participant s benefits, then the Participant s designated Beneficiary shall be deemed to be his or her surviving spouse. If the Participant has no
surviving spouse, the benefits remaining under the Plan to be paid to a Beneficiary shall be payable to the executor or personal representative of the Participant s estate.      9.5  Doubt as to Beneficiary . If the Committee has any doubt as to the proper Beneficiary to receive payments pursuant to this Plan, the Committee shall have the right, exercisable in its discretion, to cause
the Participant s Employer to withhold such payments until this matter is resolved to the Committee s satisfaction.      9.6  Discharge of
Obligations . The payment of benefits under the Plan to a Beneficiary shall fully and completely discharge all Employers and the Committee from all further obligations under this Plan with respect to the Participant, and that Participant s
Plan Agreement shall terminate upon such full payment of benefits.         
   12   

ARTICLE 10      Leave of Absence      10.1  Paid Leave of Absence . If a Participant is authorized by the Participant s Employer to
take a paid leave of absence from the employment of the Employer, (i) the Participant shall continue to be considered eligible for the benefits provided in Articles 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 in accordance with the provisions of those Articles, and
(ii) the Annual Deferral Amount shall continue to be withheld during such paid leave of absence in accordance with Section 3.2.      10.2  Unpaid
Leave of Absence . If a Participant is authorized by the Participant s Employer to take an unpaid leave of absence from the employment of the Employer for any reason, such Participant shall continue to be eligible for the benefits provided
in Articles 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 in accordance with the provisions of those Articles. However, the Participant shall be excused from fulfilling his or her Annual Deferral Amount commitment that would otherwise have been withheld during the remainder of
the Plan Year in which the unpaid leave of absence is taken. During the unpaid leave of absence, the Participant shall not be allowed to make any additional deferral elections. However, if the Participant returns to employment, the Participant may
elect to defer an Annual Deferral Amount for the Plan Year following his or her return to employment and for every Plan Year thereafter while a Participant in the Plan, provided such deferral elections are otherwise allowed and an Election Form is
delivered to and accepted by the Committee for each such election in accordance with Section 3.2 above.      ARTICLE 11      Termination of Plan, Amendment or Modification      11.1
 Termination of Plan . Each Employer reserves the right to Terminate the Plan (as defined in Section 1.30). Following a Termination of the Plan, Participant Deferral Accounts shall remain in the Plan until the Participant becomes eligible
for the benefits provided in Articles 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 in accordance with the provisions of those Articles. The Termination of the Plan shall not adversely affect any Participant or Beneficiary who has become entitled to the payment of any benefits
under the Plan as of the date of termination.      11.2  Amendment .      Any Employer may, at any time, amend or modify the Plan in whole or in part with respect to that Employer. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no amendment or modification shall be effective to decrease the value of a Participant s vested
Deferral Account in existence at the time the amendment or modification is made.      Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in the event
that the Company determines that any provision of the Plan may cause amounts deferred under the Plan to become immediately taxable to any Participant under Code Section 409A, and related guidance, the Company may (i) adopt such amendments
to the Plan and appropriate policies and procedures, including amendments and policies with retroactive effect, that the Company determines necessary or appropriate to preserve the intended tax treatment of the Plan benefits provided by the Plan
and/or (ii) take such other actions as the Company determines necessary or appropriate to comply with the requirements of Code Section 409A, and related guidance.         
   13   

11.3  Plan Agreement . Despite the provisions of Sections 11.1 and 11.2 above, if a Participant s Plan
Agreement contains benefits or limitations that are not in this Plan document, the Employer may only amend or terminate such provisions with the written consent of the Participant.      11.4  Effect of Payment . The full payment of the Participant s Deferral Account under Articles 4, 5, 6, 7 or 8 of the Plan shall completely discharge all obligations to a Participant and his or her
designated Beneficiaries under this Plan, and the Participant s Plan Agreement shall terminate.      ARTICLE 12      Administration      12.1  Committee Duties . Except as
otherwise provided in this Article 12, this Plan shall be administered by a Committee, which shall consist of the Board, or such committee as the Board shall appoint. Members of the Committee may be Participants under this Plan. The Committee also
shall have the discretion and authority to (i) make, amend, interpret and enforce all appropriate rules and regulations for the administration of this Plan, and (ii) decide or resolve any and all questions including interpretations of this
Plan, as may arise in connection with the Plan. Any individual serving on the Committee who is a Participant shall not vote or act on any matter relating solely to himself or herself. When making a determination or calculation, the Committee shall
be entitled to rely on information furnished by a Participant or the Company.      12.2  Agents . In the administration of this Plan, the Committee may,
from time to time, employ agents and delegate to them such administrative duties as it sees fit (including acting through a duly appointed representative) and may from time to time consult with counsel who may be counsel to any Employer.   
  12.3  Binding Effect of Decisions . The decision or action of the Administrator with respect to any question arising out of or in connection with the
administration, interpretation and application of the Plan and the rules and regulations promulgated hereunder shall be final and conclusive and binding upon all persons having any interest in the Plan.      12.4  Indemnity of Committee . All Employers shall indemnify and hold harmless the members of the Committee and any Employee to whom the duties of the Committee may
be delegated against any and all claims, losses, damages, expenses or liabilities arising from any action or failure to act with respect to this Plan, except in the case of willful misconduct by the Committee, any of its members or any such
Employee.      12.5  Employer Information . To enable the Committee to perform its functions, the Company and each Employer shall supply full and timely
information to the Committee on all matters relating to the compensation of its Participants, the date and circumstances of the Retirement, Disability, death or Termination of Employment of its Participants, and such other pertinent information as
the Committee may reasonably require.      ARTICLE 13      Other Benefits and Agreements      The benefits provided for a Participant and Participant s Beneficiary under the Plan
are in addition to any other benefits available to such Participant under any other plan or program for employees of the Participant s Employer. The Plan shall supplement and shall not supersede, modify or amend any other such plan or program
except as may otherwise be expressly provided.         
   14   

ARTICLE 14      Claims Procedures      14.1  Presentation of Claim . Any Participant or Beneficiary of a deceased Participant (such
Participant or Beneficiary being referred to below as a  Claimant ) may deliver to the Committee a written claim for a determination with respect to the amounts distributable to such Claimant from the Plan. If such a claim relates to the
contents of a notice received by the Claimant, the claim must be made within ninety (90) days after such notice was received by the Claimant. All other claims must be made within 180 days of the date on which the event that caused the
claim to arise occurred. The claim must state with particularity the determination desired by the Claimant.      14.2  Notification of Decision . The
Committee shall consider a Claimant s claim within a reasonable time, but no later than ninety (90) days after receiving the claim. If the Committee determines that special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the
claim, written notice of the extension shall be furnished to the Claimant prior to the termination of the initial ninety (90) day period. In no event shall such extension exceed a period of ninety (90) days from the end of the initial
period. The extension notice shall indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time and the date by which the Committee expects to render the benefit determination.      The Committee shall notify the Claimant in writing:      that the Claimant s requested determination has
been made, and that the claim has been allowed in full; or      that the Committee has reached a conclusion contrary, in whole or in part, to
the Claimant s requested determination, and such notice must set forth in a manner calculated to be understood by the Claimant:      the
specific reason(s) for the denial of the claim, or any part of it; specific reference(s) to pertinent provisions of the Plan upon which such denial was based;      a description of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to perfect the claim, and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary; an explanation of the claim review
procedure set forth in Section 14.3 below; and a statement of the Claimant s right to bring a civil action under ERISA Section 502(a) following an adverse benefit determination on review.      14.3  Review of a Denied Claim . On or before sixty (60) days after receiving a notice from the Committee that a claim has been denied, in whole or in part, a
Claimant (or the Claimant s duly authorized representative) may file with the Committee a written request for a review of the denial of the claim. The Claimant (or the Claimant s duly authorized representative):      may, upon request and free of charge, have reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claim for
benefits; may submit written comments or other documents; and/or      may request a hearing, which the Committee, in its sole discretion, may
grant.      14.4  Decision on Review . The Committee shall render its decision on review promptly, and no later than sixty (60) days after the
Committee receives the Claimant s written request for a review of the denial of the claim. If the Committee determines that special circumstances require an extension of time for processing the claim, written notice of the extension shall be
furnished to the Claimant prior to the termination of the initial sixty  
       
   15   

(60) day period. In no event shall such extension exceed a period of sixty (60) days from the end of the initial period. The extension notice shall
indicate the special circumstances requiring an extension of time and the date by which the Committee expects to render the benefit determination. In rendering its decision, the Committee shall take into account all comments, documents, records and
other information submitted by the Claimant relating to the claim, without regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial benefit determination. The decision must be written in a manner calculated to be understood by
the Claimant, and it must contain:      specific reasons for the decision;      specific reference(s) to the pertinent Plan provisions upon which the decision was based; a statement that the Claimant is entitled to receive, upon
request and free of charge, reasonable access to and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant (as defined in applicable ERISA regulations) to the Claimant s claim for benefits; and a statement of the Claimant s
right to bring a civil action under ERISA Section 502(a).      14.5  Legal Action.  A Claimant s compliance with the foregoing provisions of
this Article 15 is a mandatory prerequisite to a Claimant s right to commence any legal action with respect to any claim for benefits under this Plan.      ARTICLE 15      Trust      15.1  Establishment of the Trust . In order to provide assets from which to fulfill the obligations of the Participants and their beneficiaries under the Plan, the Company may establish a trust by a trust agreement with a third party,
the trustee, to which each Employer may, in its discretion, contribute cash or other property, including securities issued by the Company, to provide for the benefit payments under the Plan, (the  Trust ).      15.2  Interrelationship of the Plan and the Trust . The provisions of the Plan and the Plan Agreement shall govern the rights of a Participant to receive
distributions pursuant to the Plan. The provisions of any Trust shall govern the rights of the Employers, Participants and the creditors of the Employers to the assets transferred to the Trust. Each Employer shall at all times remain liable to carry
out its obligations under the Plan.      15.3  Distributions From the Trust . Each Employer s obligations under the Plan may be satisfied with Trust
assets distributed pursuant to the terms of any Trust, and any such distribution shall reduce the Employer s obligations under this Plan.      ARTICLE 16      Miscellaneous      16.1
 Status of Plan . The Plan is intended to be a plan that is not qualified within the meaning of Code Section 401(a) and that  is unfunded and is maintained by an employer primarily for the purpose of providing deferred compensation
for a select group of management or highly compensated employees  within the meaning of ERISA Sections 201(2), 301(a)(3) and 401(a)(1). The Plan shall be administered and interpreted (i) in a manner consistent with that intent, and
(ii) in accordance with Code Section 409A and other applicable tax law, including but not limited to Treasury Regulations promulgated pursuant to Code Section 409A.      16.2  Unsecured General Creditor . Participants and their Beneficiaries, heirs, successors and assigns shall have no legal or equitable rights, interests or claims in any property or assets of an Employer. For
purposes of the payment of benefits under this Plan, any and all of an Employer s assets shall be, and remain, the general, unpledged unrestricted assets of the Employer. An Employer s obligation under the Plan shall be merely that of an
unfunded and unsecured promise to pay money in the future.         
   16   

16.3  Employer s Liability . An Employer s liability for the payment of benefits shall be defined only by
the Plan and the Plan Agreement, as entered into between the Employer and a Participant. An Employer shall have no obligation to a Participant under the Plan except as expressly provided in the Plan and his or her Plan Agreement.      16.4  Nonassignability . Neither a Participant nor any other person shall have any right to commute, sell, assign, transfer, pledge, anticipate, mortgage or
otherwise encumber, transfer, hypothecate, alienate or convey in advance of actual receipt, the amounts, if any, payable hereunder, or any part thereof, which are, and all rights to which are expressly declared to be, unassignable and
non-transferable. No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure, attachment, garnishment or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant or any
other person, be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant s or any other person s bankruptcy or insolvency or be transferable to a spouse as a result of a property settlement or otherwise.      16.5  Not a Contract of Employment . The terms and conditions of this Plan shall not be deemed to constitute a contract of employment between any Employer and the
Participant. Such employment is hereby acknowledged to be an  at will  employment relationship that can be terminated at any time for any reason, or no reason, with or without cause, and with or without notice, unless expressly provided in
a written employment agreement. Nothing in this Plan shall be deemed to give a Participant the right to be retained in the service of any Employer, or to interfere with the right of any Employer to discipline or discharge the Participant at any
time.      16.6  Terms . Whenever any words are used herein in the masculine, they shall be construed as though they were in the feminine in all cases
where they would so apply; and whenever any words are used herein in the singular or in the plural, they shall be construed as though they were used in the plural or the singular, as the case may be, in all cases where they would so apply.
     16.7  Captions . The captions of the articles, sections and paragraphs of this Plan are for convenience only and shall not control or affect the
meaning or construction of any of its provisions.      16.8  Governing Law . Subject to ERISA, the provisions of this Plan shall be construed and
interpreted according to the internal laws of the State without regard to its conflicts of laws principles.      16.9  Notice . Any notice or filing
required or permitted to be given to the Committee under this Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by registered or certified mail, to the address below:      Caremark Rx, Inc.      Attn: Vice president,
Employee      Benefits, Human Resources      Department      2211 Sanders Road      Northbrook, Illinois 60062         
   17   

Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the
postmark on the receipt for registration or certification. Any notice or filing required or permitted to be given to a Participant under this Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand-delivered, or sent by mail, to the last known address of
the Participant.      16.10  Successors . The provisions of this Plan shall bind and inure to the benefit of the Participant s Employer and its
successors and assigns and the Participant and the Participant s designated Beneficiaries.      16.11  Validity . In case any provision of this Plan
shall be illegal or invalid for any reason, said illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts hereof, but this Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such illegal or invalid provision had never been inserted herein.   
  16.12  Incompetent . If the Committee determines in its discretion that a benefit under this Plan is to be paid to a minor, a person declared incompetent or to a
person incapable of handling the disposition of that person s property, the Committee may direct payment of such benefit to the guardian, legal representative or person having the care and custody of such minor, incompetent or incapable person.
The Committee may require proof of minority, incompetence, incapacity or guardianship, as it may deem appropriate prior to distribution of the benefit. Any payment of a benefit shall be a payment for the account of the Participant and the
Participant s Beneficiary, as the case may be, and shall be a complete discharge of any liability under the Plan for such payment amount.      16.13
 Court Order . The Committee is authorized to comply with any court order in any action in which the Plan or the Committee has been named as a party, including any action involving a determination of the rights or interests in a
Participant s benefits under the Plan. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee shall interpret this provision in a manner that is consistent with Code Section 409A and other applicable tax law, including but not limited to guidance
issued after the effective date of this Plan.      16.14  Deduction Limitation on Benefit Payments . An Employer may determine that as a result of the
application of the limitation under Code Section 162(m), a distribution payable to a Participant pursuant to this Plan would not be deductible by the Employer if such distribution were made at the time required by the Plan. If an Employer makes
such a determination, then the distribution shall not be paid to the Participant until such time as the distribution first becomes deductible. The amount of the distribution shall continue to be adjusted in accordance with Section 3.6 above
until it is distributed to the Participant. The amount of the distribution, plus amounts credited or debited thereon, shall be paid to the Participant or his or her Beneficiary (in the event of the Participant s death) at the earliest possible
date, as determined by the Employer, on which the deductibility of compensation paid or payable to the Participant for the taxable year of the Employer during which the distribution is made will not be limited by Section 162(m).         
   18   

</EX-10.19>

<EX-13>
 5
 dex13.htm
 PORTIONS OF THE 2007 ANNUAL REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS OF CVS CAREMARK CORPORATION

Portions of the 2007 Annual Report to Stockholders of CVS Caremark Corporation 

Exhibit 13         The following discussion should be read in
conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and our Cautionary Statement Concerning Forward-Looking Statements that are presented in this Annual Report.         Overview of Our Business        CVS Caremark is the largest
provider of prescriptions and related healthcare services in the United States. We fill or manage more than one billion prescriptions annually. As a fully integrated pharmacy services company, we drive value for our customers by effectively managing
pharmaceutical costs and improving healthcare outcomes through our approximately 6,200 CVS/pharmacy      stores; our pharmacy benefit management, mail order and specialty pharmacy division,
Caremark Pharmacy Services; our retail-based health clinic subsidiary, MinuteClinic     ; and our online pharmacy, CVS.com     .
     Today s healthcare delivery system is rapidly changing. Healthcare is becoming more consumer-centric as the U.S. healthcare system strains to manage
growing costs and employers shift more responsibility for managing costs to employees. In addition an aging population, increasing incidence of chronic disease and increasing utilization of the Medicare drug benefit is fueling demand for
prescriptions and pharmacy services. Further, cost-effective generic drugs are becoming more widely available and new drug therapies to treat unmet healthcare needs and reduce hospital stays are being introduced. Consumers require medication
management programs and better information to help them get the most out of their healthcare dollars. As a fully integrated pharmacy services company, we are well positioned to provide solutions that address these trends and improve the pharmacy
services experience for consumers.      We also strive to improve clinical outcomes, resulting in better control over healthcare costs for employers and health
plans. In that regard, we offer broader disease management, health assessment and wellness services to help plan participants manage and protect against potential health risks and avoid future health costs.         
      The Caremark Merger        Effective March 22, 2007, we closed our merger with Caremark Rx, Inc.
( Caremark ). Following the merger with Caremark (the  Caremark Merger ), we changed our name to  CVS Caremark Corporation.       We believe CVS and Caremark are complementary companies and the merger is expected to yield benefits for health plan sponsors through more effective cost-management solutions and innovative programs and for consumers through expanded
choice, improved access and more personalized services. We also believe we can operate the combined companies more efficiently than either company could have operated on its own. In that regard, the merger has enabled us to achieve significant
synergies from purchasing scale and operating efficiencies. Purchasing synergies are largely comprised of purchase discounts and/or rebates obtained from generic and brand name drug manufacturers and cost efficiencies obtained from our retail
pharmacy networks. Operating synergies include decreases in overhead expense, increases in productivity and efficiencies by eliminating excess capacity, decreases in prescription dispensing costs and other benefits made possible by combining
complementary operations. During 2007, we achieved approximately $400 million in purchasing and operating synergies (the vast majority of which were purchase related). We expect purchasing synergies to increase substantially as we realize a full
year benefit from the Caremark Merger.      Over the longer term, we expect that the Caremark Merger will create significant incremental revenue opportunities.
These opportunities are expected to be derived from a variety of new programs and benefit designs that leverage our client relationships, our integrated information systems and the personal interaction of our more than 20,000 pharmacists, nurse
practitioners and physician assistants with the millions of consumers who shop our stores on a daily basis. Examples of these programs include new prescription compliance and persistency programs, enhanced disease management programs, new ExtraCare
card programs for plan beneficiaries, increased use of MinuteClinics by plan   
       
   18   

beneficiaries and flexible fulfillment options that afford plan beneficiaries the opportunity to pick-up maintenance medications in-store. While certain of
these programs will commence in 2008, many are in their formative stage and require significant information system enhancements as well as changes to work processes. Accordingly, there can be no assurances as to the timing of the implementation of
or the amount of incremental revenue opportunities associated with these kinds of programs.      Our business is comprised of two operating segments: Retail
Pharmacy and Pharmacy Services.        Overview of Retail Pharmacy Segment        Our retail pharmacy business sells prescription drugs and a wide assortment of general merchandise, including over-the-counter drugs, beauty products and cosmetics, photo finishing, seasonal merchandise, greeting
cards and convenience foods through our CVS/pharmacy retail stores and online through CVS.com.      CVS/pharmacy is one of the nation s largest retail
pharmacy chains. With more than 40 years of dynamic growth in the retail pharmacy industry, CVS/pharmacy generates almost 68% of its revenue from the pharmacy business and is committed to providing superior customer service by being the easiest
pharmacy retailer for customers to use. CVS/pharmacy fills more than one of every seven retail prescriptions in America, and one of every five in our own markets. Our proprietary loyalty card program, ExtraCare, boasts over 50 million
cardholders, making it one of the largest and most successful retail loyalty programs in the country.      In addition, we provide healthcare services through our MinuteClinic      healthcare clinics. The clinics utilize nationally recognized medical protocols to diagnose and treat minor
health conditions and are staffed by nurse practitioners and physician assistants. We believe the clinics provide quality services that are quick, affordable and convenient.      On June 2, 2006, we acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities from Albertson s, Inc. for $4.0 billion. The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed included approximately 700 standalone
drugstores and a distribution center located in La Habra, California (collectively the  Standalone Drug Business ).         
    Approximately one-half of the drugstores are located in southern
California. The remaining drugstores are primarily located in our existing markets in the Midwest and Southwest.      As of December 29, 2007, our retail
pharmacy business included 6,245 retail drugstores (of which 6,164 operated a pharmacy) located in 40 states plus the District of Columbia and operating under the CVS or CVS/pharmacy name, our online retail website, CVS.com and 462 retail healthcare
clinics operating under the MinuteClinic name (of which 437 are located in CVS/pharmacy stores).        Overview of Pharmacy Services Segment
       Our pharmacy services business provides comprehensive prescription benefit management services to over 2,000 health benefit plans. These services
include mail order pharmacy services, specialty pharmacy services, plan design and administration, formulary management and claims processing. Our customers are primarily sponsors of health benefit plans (employers, unions, government employee
groups, insurance companies and managed care organizations) and individuals located throughout the United States. As a pharmacy benefits manager, we manage the dispensing of pharmaceuticals through our mail order pharmacies and our national network
of 60,000 retail pharmacies (which include CVS/pharmacy stores) to eligible participants in benefit plans maintained by our customers and utilize our information systems to perform safety checks, drug interaction screening and generic substitution.
     Our pharmacy services business also includes our specialty pharmacy business. Our specialty
pharmacies support individuals that require complex and expensive drug therapies. Substantially all of our mail service specialty pharmacies have been accredited by the Joint Commission on Accreditation of Healthcare Organizations. We also provide
health management programs, which include integrated disease management for 27 conditions through our Accordant      health management offering. The majority of these integrated programs are
accredited by the National Committee for Quality Assurance (the  NCQA ).   
       
   19   

In addition, our pharmacy services business participates in the administration of the Medicare Part D drug benefit through the provision of pharmacy benefit
management ( PBM ) services to health plan clients as well as clients that have qualified as a Medicare Part D prescription drug plan. Caremark also participates by offering Medicare Part D benefits through our SilverScript Insurance
Company ( SiverScript ) subsidiary, which sponsors one of the top 10 Medicare Part D prescription drug plans in the country. In addition, PharmaCare, through a joint venture with Universal American Insurance Corp., also participates in the
offering of Medicare Part D pharmacy benefits by affiliated entities of Universal American.      Our pharmacy services business generates net revenues
primarily by contracting with clients to provide prescription   
   
 drugs to plan participants. Prescription drugs are dispensed by our mail order pharmacies, our specialty pharmacies and by retail pharmacies in our national
network (including CVS/pharmacy stores). Net revenues are also generated by providing to clients certain additional services, including administrative services like claims processing and formulary management as well as healthcare related services
like disease management.      Our pharmacy services business operates under the Caremark Pharmacy Services, PharmaCare Management Services and PharmaCare
Pharmacy names. As of December 29, 2007, the pharmacy services business operated 56 retail specialty pharmacy stores, 20 specialty mail order pharmacies and 9 mail order pharmacies located in 26 states and the District of Columbia.
  
                Results of Operations and Industry Analysis         Summary of the Consolidated Financial Results    
  The Company s fiscal year is a 52 or 53 week period ending on the Saturday closest to December 31. Fiscal 2007, which ended on December 29, 2007, fiscal
2006, which ended on December 30, 2006, and fiscal 2005, which ended on December 31, 2005, each included 52 weeks. Unless otherwise noted, all references to years relate to these fiscal years.       
       Net revenues   increased $32.5 billion during 2007 primarily due to (i) the Caremark Merger, which resulted in an increase in Pharmacy Services revenue of $26.5 billion, and (ii) the inclusion of a full year of
financial results and growth of the Standalone Drug Business, which resulted in an increase in Retail Pharmacy revenue of $2.2 billion. Net revenues increased $6.8 billion during 2006 primarily due to the acquisition of the Standalone Drug Business.
        
      Gross profit   increased $4.4 billion during 2007 due primarily to the Caremark Merger. We achieved approximately $400 million in purchasing and operating
synergies (the vast majority of which were purchase related) resulting from the Caremark Merger. In addition, we continued to benefit from the increased utilization of generic drugs (which normally yield a higher gross profit rate than equivalent
brand name drugs) in both the Retail Pharmacy and Pharmacy Services segments. During 2006, gross profit increased $2.0 billion primarily due to increased utilization of generic drugs in both the Retail Pharmacy and Pharmacy Services segments.
However, the increased use of generic drugs has resulted in pressure to decrease reimbursement payments to retail and mail order pharmacies for generic drugs. We expect this trend to continue.   
       
   20   

Operating Expenses   increased $2.0 billion and $1.6 billion during 2007 and 2006, respectively. As you review our performance in this area, we believe you should consider the following important information:       

Total operating expense increased during 2007 primarily due to the Caremark Merger, which resulted in incremental operating expenses, depreciation and amortization
related to the intangible assets acquired and merger-related integration costs.          

Total operating expenses increased $60.7 million during 2006 due to the adoption of the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS )
No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment.  In addition, total operating expenses increased during 2006, due to costs incurred to integrate the Standalone Drug Business.          

During the fourth quarter of 2006, we adopted Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying
Misstatements in current Year Financial Statements  ( SAB 108 ). In connection with adopting SAB 108, we recorded adjustments, which collectively reduced total operating expenses by $40.2 million (the  SAB 108 Adjustments ).
Since the effects of the SAB 108 Adjustments were not material to 2006 or any previously reported fiscal year, the entire impact was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2006.           Interest expense, net   consisted of the following:       
    The increase in interest expense during 2007 is due to an increase in our average debt balance, which resulted
primarily from the borrowings used to fund the special cash dividend paid to Caremark shareholders and the accelerated share repurchase program that commenced subsequent to the Caremark Merger. The increase in interest expense during 2006 was due to
a combination of higher interest rates and higher average debt balances, which resulted from borrowings used to fund the acquisition of the Standalone Drug Business.         
      Income tax
provision.   Our effective income tax rate was 39.5% in 2007, 38.5% in 2006 and 35.8% in 2005.      As you review our results in this area, we believe
you should consider the following important information:       

During 2007, our effective income tax rate was negatively impacted by an increase in interest on income tax reserves and higher state income taxes principally due
to the Caremark Merger, which resulted in a change in the allocation of income between states.          

During 2007 and 2006, our effective income tax rate was negatively impacted by the implementation of SFAS No. 123(R)  Share-Based Payment , as the
compensation expense associated with our employee stock purchase plan is not deductible for income tax purposes unless, and until, any disqualifying dispositions occur.          

During the fourth quarters of 2006 and 2005, the Company recorded reductions of previously recorded income tax reserves through the income tax provision of $11.0
million and $52.6 million, respectively.          

For internal comparisons, we find it useful to assess year-to-year performance by excluding the impact of the reductions of previously recorded income tax reserves
in 2006 and 2005 discussed above. As such, we consider 39.0% and 38.6% to be the comparable effective tax rates for 2006 and 2005, respectively.           Net earnings   increased $1.2 billion or 92.6% to $2.6 billion (or $1.92 per diluted share) in 2007. This compares to $1.4 billion (or $1.60 per diluted share) in 2006, and $1.2 billion (or $1.45 per diluted share) in 2005. For
internal comparisons, we find it useful to assess year-to-year performance by excluding the $40.2 million ($24.7 million after-tax) impact of the SAB 108 Adjustments and $11.0 million reduction of previously recorded income tax reserves from 2006.
As such, we consider $1.3 billion (or $1.56 per diluted share) to be our comparable net earnings in 2006. In addition, we find it useful to remove the $52.6 million reduction of previously recorded income tax reserves from 2005. As such, we consider
$1.2 billion (or $1.39 per diluted share) to be our comparable net earnings in 2005.   
       
   21   

Segment Analysis        We evaluate segment performance based on net revenues, gross profit and operating profit before the effect of certain intersegment activities and charges. Following is a reconciliation of the Company s business segments to the
consolidated financial statements:       

(2)  
  Intersegment eliminations relate to intersegment revenues that occur when a Pharmacy Services Segment customer uses a Retail Pharmacy Segment store to purchase covered products.
When this occurs, both segments record the revenue on a stand-alone basis.          Retail Pharmacy Segment        The following table summarizes our Retail Pharmacy Segment s performance for the respective periods:       

(1)   
   Same store revenue increase includes the sales results of the Standalone Drug Business beginning July of fiscal 2007.            
   22   

Net revenues   ~ As you review our Retail Pharmacy Segment s performance in this area, we believe you should consider the following
important information:       

During 2006, total net revenues were significantly affected by the acquisition of the Standalone Drug Business on June 2, 2006. Revenues from the Standalone
Drug Business, increased total net revenues by approximately 4.9% and 8.7% during 2007 and 2006, respectively.          

During 2005, total net revenues were significantly affected by the July 31, 2004 acquisition of certain assets and assumption of certain liabilities from J.C.
Penney Company, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries, including Eckerd Corporation ( Eckerd ). This acquisition included more than 1,200 Eckerd retail drugstores and Eckerd Health Services, which included Eckerd s mail order and
pharmacy benefit management businesses (collectively, the  2004 Acquired Businesses ). Revenues from the 2004 Acquired Businesses increased total net revenues by approximately 11.2% during 2005. Beginning in August 2005, same store sales
include the acquired Eckerd stores, which increased total same store sales by approximately 110 basis points during 2006.          

Total net revenues continued to benefit from our active relocation program, which moves existing in-line shopping center stores to larger, more convenient,
freestanding locations. Historically, we have achieved significant improvements in customer count and net revenue when we do this. As such, our relocation strategy remains an important component of our overall growth strategy. As of
December 29, 2007, approximately 64% of our existing stores were freestanding, compared to approximately 61% and 59% at December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively.          

Pharmacy revenue growth continued to benefit from new market expansions, increased penetration in existing markets, the introduction of a prescription drug benefit
under Medicare Part D in 2006, our ability to attract and retain managed care customers and favorable industry trends. These trends include an aging American population; many  baby boomers  are now in their fifties and sixties and are
consuming a greater number      

of prescription drugs. In addition, the increased use of pharmaceuticals as the first line of defense for individual healthcare also contributed to the
growing demand for pharmacy services. We believe these favorable industry trends will continue.          

Pharmacy revenue dollars continue to be negatively impacted in all years by the conversion of brand named drugs to equivalent generic drugs, which typically have a
lower selling price. In addition, our pharmacy growth has also been adversely affected by the growth of the mail order channel, a decline in the number of significant new brand named drug introductions, higher consumer co-payments and co-insurance
arrangements and by an increase in the number of over-the-counter remedies that were historically only available by prescription. We may choose not to participate in certain prescription benefit programs that mandate filling maintenance
prescriptions through a mail order service facility or that implement pharmacy reimbursement rates that fall below our minimum profitability standards. In the event we elect to, for any reason, withdraw from current programs and/or decide not to
participate in future programs, we may not be able to sustain our current rate of sales growth.           Gross profit   ,  which
includes net revenues less the cost of merchandise sold during the reporting period and the related purchasing costs, warehousing costs, delivery costs and actual and estimated inventory losses, as a percentage of net revenues was 29.1% in 2007.
This compares to 28.0% in 2006 and 27.4% in 2005.      As you review our Retail Pharmacy Segment s performance in this area, we believe you should
consider the following important information:       

Front store gross profit rate benefited from improved product mix and benefits from our ExtraCare loyalty program.          

Our pharmacy gross profit rate benefited from a portion of the significant purchasing synergies resulting from the Caremark Merger. We expect the benefit from
purchasing synergies to continue to positively impact our pharmacy gross profit rate through fiscal 2008.      
       
   23   

Our pharmacy gross profit rate continued to benefit from an increase in generic drug revenues in 2007, which normally yield a higher gross profit rate than
equivalent brand name drug revenues. However, the increased use of generic drugs increased the pressure from third party payors to reduce reimbursement payments to retail pharmacies for generic drugs, which reduced the benefit we realized from brand
to generic product conversions. We expect this trend to continue.          

Sales to customers covered by third party insurance programs have continued to increase and, thus, have become a larger component of our total pharmacy business. On
average, our gross profit on third party pharmacy revenues is lower than our gross profit on cash pharmacy revenues. Third party pharmacy revenues were 95.3% of pharmacy revenues in 2007, compared to 94.7% of pharmacy revenues in 2006 and 94.1% of
pharmacy revenues in 2005. We expect this trend to continue.          

The introduction of the Federal Government s new Medicare Part D benefit is increasing utilization, but decreasing pharmacy gross profit rates as higher profit
business (such as cash and state Medicaid customers) continued to migrate to Part D coverage during 2007.          

On February 8, 2006, the President signed into law the Deficit Reduction Act of 2005 (the  DRA ). The DRA seeks to reduce federal spending by
altering the Medicaid reimbursement formula for multi-source (i.e., generic) drugs. According to the Congressional Budget Office, retail pharmacies are expected to negotiate with individual states for higher dispensing fees to mitigate the adverse
effect of these changes. These changes were scheduled to begin to take effect during the first quarter of 2007 and were expected to result in reduced Medicaid reimbursement rates for retail pharmacies. During 2007, the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services ( CMS ) issued a final rule purporting to implement the new reimbursement formula. On December 14, 2007, the U.S. District Court for the District of Columbia preliminarily enjoined CMS from implementing the new rule
to the extent such action affects Medicaid reimbursement rates for retail pharmacies. As a result, implementation has been delayed indefinitely. Accordingly, the extent of any reductions and the impact on the Company cannot be determined at this
time.            

Our pharmacy gross profit rates have been adversely affected by the efforts of managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit managers, governmental and other third
party payors to reduce their prescription costs. In the event this trend continues, we may not be able to sustain our current rate of revenue growth and gross profit dollars could be adversely impacted.           Total operating expenses,   which include store and administrative payroll, employee benefits, store and administrative occupancy costs, selling expenses,
advertising expenses, administrative expenses and depreciation and amortization expense increased to 23.1% of net revenues in 2007, compared to 22.7% of net revenues in 2006 and 22.2% of net revenues in 2005.      As you review our Retail Pharmacy Segment s performance in this area, we believe you should consider the following important information:       

Total operating expenses as a percentage of net revenues continued to be impacted by an increase in the sale of generic drugs, which typically have a lower selling
price than their brand named equivalents.          

Total operating expenses increased as a percentage of net revenues during 2007 and 2006, due to increased store payroll costs, primarily driven by the Standalone
Drug business, which operates at higher costs due to the geographic locations of the stores.          

Total operating expenses increased $60.7 million during 2006 as a result of the adoption of the SFAS No. 123(R). In addition, total operating expenses
increased due to costs incurred to integrate the Standalone Drug Business.          

During the fourth quarter of 2006, we adopted SAB No. 108. In connection with adopting SAB 108, we recorded adjustments, which collectively reduced total
operating expenses by $40.2 million. Since the effects of the SAB 108 Adjustments were not material to 2006 or any previously reported fiscal year, the entire impact was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2006.      
       
   24   

Pharmacy Services Segment       The following table summarizes our Pharmacy Services Segment s performance for the respective periods:       

(1)  
  The comparable financial information (above) combines the historical Pharmacy Services Segment results of CVS and Caremark assuming the Caremark Merger occurred at the beginning of
each period presented. The historical results of Caremark are based on calendar quarter/year reporting periods, whereas the historical results of the Pharmacy Services Segment of CVS are based on a 52-week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest
to December 31. In each period presented, the comparable results include incremental depreciation and amortization resulting from the preliminary fixed and intangible assets recorded in connection with the Caremark Merger and exclude
merger-related expenses and integration expenses.   The comparable financial information has been provided for illustrative purposes only and does not purport to be indicative of the actual results that would have been achieved by the combined
business segment for the periods presented or that will be achieved by the combined business segment in the future.             
   25   

During 2007, the Pharmacy Services Segment s results of operations were significantly affected by the Caremark Merger. As such, the primary focus of our
Pharmacy Services Segment discussion is on the comparable financial information for 2007 and 2006. Prior to the Caremark Merger, our pharmacy services business did meet the threshold for separate disclosure and the trends for the pharmacy services
business, which was comprised of our PharmaCare subsidiary, did not differ materially from the trends for the consolidated Company. Consequently, we do not believe that a comparison of the historical financial results for 2006 as compared to the
2005 historical financial results provides meaningful information.        Net revenues   ~ As you review our Pharmacy Services Segment s revenue
performance, we believe you should consider the following important information:       

During 2007, the Caremark Merger significantly affected net revenues. The addition of Caremark s operations effective March 22, 2007 caused net revenues
to increase approximately $29.8 billion during 2007.          

The Pharmacy Services Segment recognizes revenues for its national retail pharmacy network transactions based on individual contract terms. In accordance with
Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 99-19,  Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent , ( EITF 99-19 ), Caremark s contracts are predominantly accounted for using the gross method whereas, prior to
September 2007, PharmaCare s contracts were accounted for using the net method. Effective September 1, 2007, we converted a number of the PharmaCare retail pharmacy network contracts to the Caremark contract structure, which resulted in
those contracts being accounted for using the gross method. As a result, net revenues increased by approximately $1.0 billion during 2007. Please see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements for further information about the Pharmacy Services
Segment s revenue recognition policies.          

Changes in mail service and retail network revenue are primarily impacted by changes in pharmacy claims processed, drug cost inflation, customer and claims mix,
customer pricing and generic dispensing rates. Increases in generic dispensing rates have the effect of reducing total net revenues. Our business model is built around the alignment of our financial interests      

with those of our customers and their participants by making the use of prescription drugs safer and more affordable. Our clients and their participants
benefit from the lower cost of generic drugs. Our net revenues are reduced as generic dispensing rates increase, however, our gross profit and gross profit margins generally increase with the corresponding increase in generic dispensing rates since
generic drug revenues normally yield a higher gross profit rate than equivalent brand name drug revenues.          

During 2007, on a comparable basis, mail service claims processed increased to 73.9 million, or 0.9%. Our average revenue per mail service claim increased by
7.2%. Average revenue per mail service claim was impacted primarily by claims mix, generic dispensing rates and drug inflation. Specialty mail service claims, which have significantly higher average net revenues per claim, increased our average
revenue per mail claim by 5.0%. In addition, our average revenue per mail service claims increased 2.2% primarily due to drug cost inflation offset by an increase in the percentage of generic drugs dispensed. Mail service generic dispensing rates
increased to 48.1% in 2007, compared to 43.3% in 2006. The 480 basis point increase in generic dispensing rate was primarily attributable to new generic drug introductions during 2007 and 2006 as well as our continued efforts to encourage plan
participants to utilize generic drugs when available. During 2007, average revenue per specialty mail service claim increased 18.1%. The 18.1% increase primarily related to changes in the mix of specialty drug therapies we dispensed in 2007 from
2006 and drug cost inflation.          

During 2007, on a comparable basis, retail network claims processed increased to 533.3 million claims compared to 532.6 million in 2006. Average revenue
per retail network claim processed increased by 6.2%. The $1.0 billion change in revenue recognition for PharmaCare contracts previously discussed and the impact of the change in revenue recognition from net to gross for a health plan contract
effective in the second quarter of 2006, increased our average revenue per retail network claim process by approximately 5.6%. In addition, our average revenue per retail network claim processed increased approximately 0.6% primarily due to drug
cost inflation offset by an increase in the percentage of generic drugs dispensed. Our retail network generic dispensing rate increased to 61.7%  

26   

in 2007, compared to 57.4% in 2006. The 430 basis point increase in generic dispensing rate was comparable to that in our mail service claims and is
attributable to the same industry dynamics. We anticipate that our generic dispensing rates will increase in future periods, however, the magnitude of the increases will be determined by new generic drug introductions and our efforts to encourage
plan participants to utilize generic drugs when available.          

During 2007, net revenues benefited from our participation in the administration of the Medicare Part D Drug Benefit through the provision of PBM services to our
health plan clients and other clients that have qualified as a Medicare Part D Prescription Drug Plan ( PDP ). We also participate (i) by offering Medicare Part D benefits through our subsidiary, SilverScript, which has been approved
by CMS as a PDP in all regions of the country and (ii), by assisting employer, union and other health plan clients that qualify for the retiree drug subsidy available under Medicare Part D by collecting and submitting eligibility and/or drug cost
data to CMS for them as required under Part D in order to obtain the subsidy and (iii) through a joint venture with Universal American Financial Corp. ( UAFC ), which sponsors Prescription Pathways, an approved PDP.
        Both SilverScript and Prescription Pathways were in the top ten PDPs in the country in terms of enrollment during 2007.
Revenues related to SilverScript and our joint venture with UAFC are comparable between 2007 and 2006. The majority of these revenues are included in our retail network revenue due to the high level of retail network utilization within the Medicare
Part D program.      In February 2008, the Company and UAFC agreed to dissolve this joint venture at the end of the 2008 plan year and to divide
responsibility for providing Medicare Part D services to the affected Prescription Pathways plan members beginning with the 2009 plan year. The terms of this agreement are subject to regulatory approval.        Gross profit   includes net revenues less cost of revenues. Cost of revenues includes the cost of pharmaceuticals dispensed, either directly through our mail
service and specialty retail pharmacies or indirectly through our national retail pharmacy network, shipping and handling costs and the operating costs of our mail service   
   
 pharmacies, customer service operations and related information technology support. Gross profit as a percentage of revenues was 8.6% in 2007. This compares
to 12.4% in 2006 and 11.7% in 2005.      During 2007, the Caremark Merger significantly affected our gross profit. As you review our Pharmacy Services
Segment s performance in this area, we believe you should consider the following important information:       

As discussed above, our national retail network contracts are reviewed on an individual basis to determine if the revenues should be accounted for using the gross
or net method under applicable accounting rules. Under these rules the majority of Caremark s national retail network contracts are accounted for using the gross method, resulting in increased revenues, increased cost of revenues and lower
gross profit rates. The conversion of PharmaCare contracts to the Caremark contract structure, effective September 2007, also resulted in increased revenues, increased cost of revenues and lower gross profit margins. The change in revenue
recognition had no impact on the actual gross profit amount.          

During 2007, on a comparable basis, our gross profit as a percentage of total net revenues was 8.2%. This compares to the gross profit as a percentage of total net
revenues of 7.0% in 2006.          

During 2007, on a comparable basis, our gross profit rate benefited from a portion of the significant purchasing synergies resulting from the Caremark Merger. We
expect the benefit from purchasing synergies to continue to positively impact our pharmacy gross profit rate through fiscal 2008.          

During 2007, on a comparable basis, our gross profit rate benefited from an increase in our generic dispensing rates. Total generic dispensing rates increased to
60.1% in 2007, compared to 55.8% in 2006. As previously discussed, our net revenues are reduced as generic dispensing rates increase, however, our gross profit and gross profit margins generally increase with the corresponding increase in generic
dispensing rates. However, the increased use of generic drugs is increasing the pressure from clients to reduce pharmacy reimbursement payments for generic drugs.      
       
   27   

We anticipate that our generic dispensing rates will increase in future periods which benefits our customers, plan participants and our financial performance. However, our gross profits are continually impacted by our
ability to profitably retain our existing customers and win new business, and maintain and enhance our drug purchase discounts from manufacturers, wholesalers and retail pharmacies.       

During 2007, on a comparable basis, our gross profit rate was negatively impacted by the recording of PharmaCare contracts on a gross basis as previously discussed.
The recording of these revenues on a gross basis did not impact the actual gross profit amount, however, it did decrease the gross profit margin.           Total operating expenses,   which include selling, general and administrative expenses (including integration and other related expenses), depreciation and amortization related to selling, general and administrative activities
and retail specialty pharmacy store and administrative payroll, employee benefits and occupancy costs decreased to 2.6% of net revenues in 2007, compared to 3.8% in 2006 and 4.2% in 2005.      As you review our Pharmacy Services Segment s performance in this area, we believe you should consider the following important information:       

During 2007, the Caremark Merger significantly affected our operating expenses. Total operating expenses for 2007 include $81.7 million of merger, integration and
other related expenses and $162.6 million of incremental amortization expense resulting from the preliminary intangible assets recorded in connection with the Caremark Merger. Please see Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements for additional
information.          

During 2007, on a comparable basis, total operating expenses increased 1.6% to $998.4 million or 2.3% of net revenue, compared to $982.2 million or 2.4% of net
revenue during 2006. 2007 and 2006 comparable results include incremental depreciation and amortization resulting from the preliminary fixed and intangible assets recorded in connection with the Caremark Merger and exclude merger-related expenses
and integration costs.            
      Liquidity and Capital Resources        We anticipate that our cash
flow from operations, supplemented by commercial paper and long-term borrowings will continue to fund the future growth of our business.       Net cash
provided by operating activities  increased to $3.2 billion in 2007. This compares to $1.7 billion in 2006 and $1.6 billion in 2005. The increase in net cash provided by operations during 2007 primarily resulted from increased cash receipts from
revenues due to the Caremark Merger. The increase in net cash provided by operations during 2006 primarily resulted from an increase in cash receipts from revenues.       Net cash used in investing activities  decreased to $3.1 billion in 2007. This compares to $4.6 billion in 2006 and $0.9 billion in 2005. The $3.1 billion of net cash used in investing activities during 2007 was
primarily due to the Caremark Merger. The increase in net cash used in investing activities during 2006 was primarily due to the acquisition of the Standalone Drug Business. Gross capital expenditures totaled $1.8 billion during 2007, compared to
$1.8 billion in 2006 and $1.5 billion in 2005. During 2007, approximately 54.6% of our total capital expenditures were for new store construction, 21.7% for store expansion and improvements and 23.7% for technology and other corporate initiatives.
During 2008, we currently plan to invest over $2.0 billion in gross capital expenditures, which will include spending for approximately 300-325 new or relocated stores.      We finance a significant portion of our new store development program through sale-leaseback transactions. Proceeds from sale-leaseback transactions totaled $601.3 million in 2007. This compares to $1.4 billion in
2006, which included approximately $800 million in proceeds associated with the sale and leaseback of properties acquired as part of the acquisition of the Standalone Drug Business, and $539.9 million in 2005. Under the transactions, the properties
are sold at net book value and the resulting leases qualify and are accounted for as operating leases.   
       
   28   

Following is a summary of our store development activity for the respective years:       

(1)  
  Relocated stores are not included in new or closed store totals.         Net
cash provided by financing activities  was $0.4 billion in 2007, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $2.9 billion in 2006 and net cash used in financing activities of $0.6 billion in 2005. Net cash provided by financing
activities during 2007 was primarily due to increased long-term borrowings to fund the special cash dividend paid to Caremark shareholders and was offset, in part by the repayment of short-term borrowings and the repurchase of common shares. Net
cash provided by financing activities during 2006 was primarily due to the financing of the acquisition of the Standalone Drug Business, including issuance of the 2006 Notes (defined below), during the third quarter of 2006. This increase was
offset, in part, by the repayment of the $300 million, 5.625% unsecured senior notes, which matured during the first quarter of 2006. Fiscal 2005 reflected a reduction in short-term borrowings. During 2007, we paid common stock dividends totaling
$308.8 million, or $0.22875 per common share.      We believe that our current cash on hand and cash provided by operations, together with our ability to
obtain additional short-term and long-term financing, will be sufficient to cover our working capital needs, capital expenditures, debt service requirements and dividend requirements for at least the next twelve months and the foreseeable future.
     We had $2.1 billion of commercial paper outstanding at a weighted average interest rate of 5.1% as of December 29, 2007. In connection with our
commercial paper program, we maintain a $675 million, five-year unsecured back-up credit facility, which expires on June 11, 2009, a $675 million, five-year unsecured back-up credit facility, which expires on June 2, 2010, a $1.4 billion,
five-year unsecured back-up credit facility, which expires on May 12, 2011 and a $1.3 billion, five-year unsecured back-up credit facility, which expires on March 12, 2012. The   
   
 credit facilities allow for borrowings at various rates that are dependent in part on our public debt rating. As of December 29, 2007, we had no
outstanding borrowings against the credit facilities.      In connection with the Caremark Merger, on March 28, 2007, we commenced a tender offer to
purchase up to 150 million common shares, or about 10%, of our outstanding common stock at a price of $35.00 per share. The offer to purchase shares expired on April 24, 2007 and resulted in approximately 10.3 million shares being
tendered. The shares were placed into our treasury account.      On May 9, 2007, our Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program for up to
$5.0 billion of our outstanding common stock.      On May 13, 2007, we entered into a $2.5 billion fixed dollar accelerated share repurchase agreement
(the  May ASR agreement ) with Lehman Brothers, Inc. ( Lehman ). The May ASR agreement contained provisions that established the minimum and maximum number of shares to be repurchased during the term of the May ASR agreement.
Pursuant to the terms of the May ASR agreement, on May 14, 2007, we paid $2.5 billion to Lehman in exchange for Lehman delivering 45.6 million shares of common stock to us, which were placed into our treasury account upon delivery. On
June 7, 2007, upon establishment of the minimum number of shares to be repurchased, Lehman delivered an additional 16.1 million shares of common stock to us. The final settlement under the May ASR agreement occurred on October 5, 2007
and resulted in us receiving an additional 5.8 million shares of common stock during the fourth quarter of 2007. As of December 29, 2007, the aggregate 67.5 million shares of common stock received pursuant to the $2.5 billion May ASR
agreement had been placed into our treasury account.      On October 8, 2007, we commenced an open market repurchase program. The program concluded on
November 2, 2007 and resulted in 5.3 million shares of common stock being repurchased for $211.9 million. The shares were placed into our treasury account upon delivery.      On November 6, 2007, we entered into a $2.3 billion fixed dollar accelerated share repurchase agreement (the  November ASR agreement ) with Lehman. The November ASR agreement contained provisions that
established the minimum and maximum number of shares to be repurchased during the term of the November  

29   

ASR agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the November ASR agreement, on November 7, 2007, we paid $2.3 billion to Lehman in exchange for Lehman
delivering 37.2 million shares of common stock to us, which were placed into our treasury account upon delivery. On November 26, 2007, upon establishment of the minimum number of shares to be repurchased, Lehman delivered an additional
14.4 million shares of common stock to us. As of December 29, 2007, the aggregate 51.6 million shares of common stock received pursuant to the November ASR agreement had been placed into our treasury account. We may receive up to
5.7 million additional shares of common stock, depending on the market price of the common stock, as determined under the November ASR agreement, over the term of the November ASR agreement, which is currently expected to conclude during the
first quarter of 2008.      Accordingly, the $5.0 billion share repurchase program authorized by our Board of Directors has been completed pending the final
settlement of the November ASR agreement discussed previously. We will, however, continue to evaluate alternatives for optimizing our capital structure on an ongoing basis.      On May 22, 2007, we issued $1.75 billion of floating rate senior notes due June 1, 2010, $1.75 billion of 5.75% unsecured senior notes due June 1, 2017, and $1.0 billion of 6.25% unsecured senior notes
due June 1, 2027 (collectively the  2007 Notes ). Also on May 22, 2007, we entered into an underwriting agreement with Lehman Brothers, Inc., Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, BNY Capital
Markets, Inc., and Wachovia Capital Markets, LLC, as representatives of the underwriters pursuant to which we agreed to issue and sell $1.0 billion of Enhanced Capital Advantaged Preferred Securities ( ECAPS ) due June 1, 2062 to the
underwriters. The ECAPS bear interest at 6.302% per year until June 1, 2012 at which time they will pay interest based on a floating rate. The 2007 Notes and the ECAPS pay interest semiannually and may be redeemed at any time, in whole or
in part at a defined redemption price plus accrued interest. The net proceeds from the 2007 Notes and ECAPS were used to repay the bridge credit facility and a portion of the outstanding commercial paper borrowings.      On August 15, 2006, we issued $800 million of 5.75% unsecured senior notes due August 15, 2011 and $700 million of 6.125% unsecured senior notes due
August 15, 2016 (collectively the  2006 Notes ). The 2006 Notes pay interest semi-annually and   
   
 may be redeemed at any time, in whole or in part at a defined redemption price plus accrued interest. Net proceeds from the 2006 Notes were used to repay a
portion of the outstanding commercial paper issued to finance the Standalone Drug Business. To manage a portion of the risk associated with potential changes in market interest rates, during the second quarter of 2006 we entered into forward
starting pay fixed rate swaps (the  Swaps ), with a notional amount of $750 million. The Swaps settled in conjunction with the placement of the long-term financing. As of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, we had no
freestanding derivatives in place.      Our credit facilities, unsecured senior notes and ECAPS contain customary restrictive financial and operating
covenants. These covenants do not include a requirement for the acceleration of our debt maturities in the event of a downgrade in our credit rating. We do not believe the restrictions contained in these covenants materially affect our financial or
operating flexibility.      As of December 29, 2007, our long-term debt was rated  Baa2  by Moody s and  BBB+  by
Standard   Poor s, and our commercial paper program was rated  P-2  by Moody s and  A-2  by Standard   Poor s. Upon completion of the Caremark Merger, Standard   Poor s raised the
Company s credit watch outlook from negative to stable. On May 21, 2007, Moody s also raised the Company s credit watch from negative to stable. In assessing our credit strength, we believe that both Moody s and
Standard   Poor s considered, among other things, our capital structure and financial policies as well as our consolidated balance sheet, our acquisition of the Standalone Drug Business, the Caremark Merger and other financial
information. Although we currently believe our long-term debt ratings will remain investment grade, we cannot guarantee the future actions of Moody s and/or Standard   Poor s. Our debt ratings have a direct impact on our future
borrowing costs, access to capital markets and new store operating lease costs.        Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements        In connection with executing operating leases, we provide a guarantee of the lease payments. We finance a portion of our new store development through sale-leaseback
transactions, which involve selling stores to unrelated parties and then leasing the stores back under leases that qualify and are accounted for as operating leases. We do not have any retained or contingent  

30   

interests in the stores, and we do not provide any guarantees, other than a guarantee of the lease payments, in connection with the transactions. In accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles, our operating leases are not reflected in our consolidated balance sheet.      Between 1991 and 1997, we sold or spun
off a number of subsidiaries, including Bob s Stores, Linens  n Things, Marshalls, Kay-Bee Toys, Wilsons, This End Up and Footstar. In many cases, when a former subsidiary leased a store, we provided a guarantee of the store s lease
obligations. When the subsidiaries were disposed of, the guarantees remained in place, although each initial purchaser agreed to indemnify us for any lease obligations we were required to satisfy. If any of the purchasers were to become insolvent
and failed to make   
   
 the required payments under a store lease, we could be required to satisfy these obligations. Assuming that each respective purchaser became insolvent, and
we were required to assume all of these lease obligations, we estimate that we could settle the obligations for approximately $325 million to $375 million as of December 29, 2007. As of December 29, 2007, we guaranteed approximately 220
such store leases, with the maximum remaining lease term extending through 2022.      We currently believe that the ultimate disposition of any of the lease
guarantees will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial condition, results of operations or future cash flows.   
        Following is a summary of our significant contractual obligations as of December 29, 2007:       
           Critical Accounting Policies        We prepare our consolidated
financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, which require management to make certain estimates and apply judgment. We base our estimates and judgments on historical experience, current trends and other factors
that management believes to be important at the time the consolidated financial statements are prepared. On a regular basis, we review our accounting policies and how they are applied and disclosed in our consolidated financial statements. While we
believe the historical experience, current trends and other factors considered support the preparation of our consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles, actual results could differ from our
estimates, and such differences could be material.      Our significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.
We believe the following accounting policies include a higher degree of judgment and/or complexity and, thus, are considered to be critical accounting   
   
 policies. The critical accounting policies discussed below are applicable to both of our business segments. We have discussed the development and selection
of our critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of our Board of Directors and the Audit Committee has reviewed our disclosures relating to them.       Goodwill and Intangible Assets       We account for goodwill and intangible assets in accordance with SFAS No. 141,  Business
Combinations,  SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets  and SFAS No. 144,  Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.       Identifiable intangible assets consist primarily of trademarks, customer contracts and relationships, favorable and unfavorable leases and covenants not to compete. These intangible assets arise primarily from the
allocation of the purchase price of businesses acquired to identifiable intangible assets based on their respective fair market values at the date of acquisition.   
       
   31   

Amounts assigned to identifiable intangible assets, and their related useful lives, are derived from established valuation techniques and management
estimates. Goodwill represents the excess of amounts paid for acquisitions over the fair market value of the net identifiable assets acquired.      We evaluate
the recoverability of certain long-lived assets, including intangible assets with finite lives, but excluding goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, which are tested for impairment using separate tests, whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying value of an asset may not be recoverable. We group and evaluate these long-lived assets for impairment at the lowest level at which individual cash flows can be identified. When evaluating these long-lived
assets for potential impairment, we first compare the carrying amount of the asset group to the asset group s estimated future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges). If the estimated future cash flows are less than the carrying
amount of the asset group, an impairment loss calculation is prepared. The impairment loss calculation compares the carrying amount of the asset group to the asset group s estimated future cash flows (discounted and with interest charges). If
required, an impairment loss is recorded for the portion of the asset group s carrying value that exceeds the asset group s estimated future cash flows (discounted and with interest charges).      Our long-lived asset impairment loss calculation contains uncertainty since we must use judgment to estimate each asset group s future sales, profitability and cash
flows. When preparing these estimates, we consider historical results and current operating trends and our consolidated sales, profitability and cash flow results and forecasts.      These estimates can be affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, general economic conditions, efforts of third party organizations to reduce their prescription drug costs and/or increased member
co-payments, the continued efforts of competitors to gain market share and consumer spending patterns.      Goodwill and indefinitely-lived intangible assets
are subject to impairment reviews annually, or if changes or events indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.      Indefinitely-lived intangible
assets are tested by comparing the estimated fair value of the asset to its carrying value. If the   
   
 carrying value of the asset exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss is recognized and the asset is written down to its estimated fair value.
     Our indefinitely-lived intangible asset impairment loss calculation contains uncertainty since we must use judgment to estimate the fair value based on
the assumption that in lieu of ownership of an intangible asset, the Company would be willing to pay a royalty in order to utilize the benefits of the asset. Value is estimated by discounting the hypothetical royalty payments to their present value
over the estimated economic life of the asset. These estimates can be affected by a number of factors including, but not limited to, general economic conditions, availability of market information as well as the profitability of the Company.
     Goodwill is tested on a reporting unit basis using the expected present value of future cash flows. In accordance with SFAS 142, goodwill impairment
is determined using a two-step process. The first step of the impairment test is to identify potential impairment by comparing the reporting unit s fair value with its net book value (or carrying amount), including goodwill. If the fair value
of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, the reporting unit s goodwill is not considered to be impaired and the second step of the impairment test is not performed. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit s carrying amount
exceeds its fair value, the second step of the impairment test is performed to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step of the impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill with the
carrying amount of the goodwill. If the carrying amount of the reporting unit s goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal to that excess.      Our impairment loss calculation contains uncertainty since we must use judgment to estimate each reporting unit s future revenues, profitability and cash flows.
When preparing these estimates, we consider each reporting unit s historical results and current operating trends and our consolidated revenues, profitability and cash flow results and forecasts. These estimates can be affected by a number of
factors including, but not limited to, general economic conditions, efforts of third party organizations to reduce their prescription drug costs and/or increase member co-payments, the continued efforts of competitors to gain market share and
consumer spending patterns.   
       
   32   

The carrying value of goodwill and intangible assets covered by this critical accounting policy was $34.4 billion as of December 29, 2007. We did not
record any impairment losses related to goodwill or intangible assets during 2007, 2006 or 2005. Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical information available to us to test for impairment, it is possible that actual cash flows
could differ from the estimated cash flows used in our impairment tests. Due to the nature of the uncertainties discussed above, we cannot determine a reasonably likely change.      We have not made any material changes in the methodologies utilized to test the carrying values of goodwill and intangible assets for impairment, during the past three years.       Closed Store Lease Liability       We account for closed store lease
termination costs in accordance with SFAS No. 146,  Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities,  subsequent to its adoption in 2003. As such, when a leased store is closed, we record a liability for the estimated
present value of the remaining obligation under the non-cancelable lease, which includes future real estate taxes, common area maintenance and other charges, if applicable. The liability is reduced by estimated future sublease income.      The initial calculation and subsequent evaluations of our closed store lease liability contain uncertainty since we must use judgment to estimate the timing and duration
of future vacancy periods, the amount and timing of future lump sum settlement payments and the amount and timing of potential future sublease income. When estimating these potential termination costs and their related timing, we consider a number
of factors, which include, but are not limited to, historical settlement experience, the owner of the property, the location and condition of the property, the terms of the underlying lease, the specific marketplace demand and general economic
conditions.      Our total closed store lease liability covered by this critical accounting policy was $441.2 million as of December 29, 2007. This amount
is net of $263.0 million of estimated sublease income that is subject to the uncertainties discussed above. Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical information available to us to record reasonable estimates for sublease income,
it is possible that actual results could differ.   
   
 In order to help you assess the risk, if any, associated with the uncertainties discussed above, a ten percent (10%) pre-tax change in our estimated
sublease income, which we believe is a reasonably likely change, would increase or decrease our total closed store lease liability by about $26.3 million as of December 29, 2007.      We have not made any material changes in the reserve methodology used to record closed store lease reserves during the past three years.       Self-Insurance Liabilities       We are self-insured for certain losses related to general liability, workers 
compensation and auto liability, although we maintain stop loss coverage with third party insurers to limit our total liability exposure. We are also self-insured for certain losses related to health and medical liabilities.      The estimate of our self-insurance liability contains uncertainty since we must use judgment to estimate the ultimate cost that will be incurred to settle reported
claims and unreported claims for incidents incurred but not reported as of the balance sheet date. When estimating our self-insurance liability, we consider a number of factors, which include, but are not limited to, historical claim experience,
demographic factors, severity factors and valuations provided by independent third party actuaries. On a quarterly basis, we review our assumptions with our independent third party actuaries to determine if our self-insurance liability is adequate
as it relates to our general liability, workers  compensation and auto liability. Similar reviews are conducted semi-annually to determine that our self insurance liability is adequate for our health and medical liability.      Our total self-insurance liability covered by this critical accounting policy was $328.6 million as of December 29, 2007. Although we believe we have sufficient
current and historical information available to us to record reasonable estimates for our self-insurance liability, it is possible that actual results could differ. In order to help you assess the risk, if any, associated with the uncertainties
discussed above, a ten percent (10%) pre-tax change in our estimate for our self-insurance liability, which we believe is a reasonably likely change, would increase or decrease our self-insurance liability by about $32.9 million as of
December 29, 2007.   
       
   33   

We have not made any material changes in the accounting methodology used to establish our self-insurance liability during the past three years.       Inventory       Our inventory is stated at the lower of cost or market on a first-in, first-out basis using the retail method of accounting to
determine cost of sales and inventory in our stores, average cost to determine cost of sales and inventory in our mail service and specialty pharmacies and the cost method of accounting to determine inventory in our distribution centers. Under the
retail method, inventory is stated at cost, which is determined by applying a cost-to-retail ratio to the ending retail value of our inventory. Since the retail value of our inventory is adjusted on a regular basis to reflect current market
conditions, our carrying value should approximate the lower of cost or market. In addition, we reduce the value of our ending inventory for estimated inventory losses that have occurred during the interim period between physical inventory counts.
Physical inventory counts are taken on a regular basis in each location (other than in six distribution centers, which perform a continuous cycle count process to validate the inventory balance on hand) to ensure that the amounts reflected in the
consolidated financial statements are properly stated.      The accounting for inventory contains uncertainty since we must use judgment to estimate the
inventory losses that have occurred during the interim period between physical inventory counts. When estimating these losses, we consider a number of factors, which include but are not limited to, historical physical inventory results on a
location-by-location basis and current physical inventory loss trends.      Our total reserve for estimated inventory losses covered by this critical
accounting policy was $135.1 million as of December 29, 2007. Although we believe we have sufficient current and historical information available to us to record reasonable estimates for estimated inventory losses, it is possible that actual
results could differ. In order to help you assess the aggregate risk, if any, associated with the uncertainties discussed above, a ten percent (10%) pre-tax change in our estimated inventory losses, which we believe is a reasonably likely
change, would increase or decrease our total reserve for estimated inventory losses by about $13.5 million as of December 29, 2007.         
    We have not made any material changes in the accounting
methodology used to establish our inventory loss reserves during the past three years.      Although we believe that the estimates discussed above are
reasonable and the related calculations conform to generally accepted accounting principles, actual results could differ from our estimates, and such differences could be material.        Recent Accounting Pronouncements        We adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation
( FIN ) No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  effective December 31, 2006. FIN No. 48 addresses the uncertainty about how certain income tax positions
taken or expected to be taken on an income tax return should be reflected in the financial statements before they are finally resolved. As a result of the implementation, the Company recognized a decrease to reserves for uncertain income tax
positions of approximately $4.0 million, which was accounted for as an increase to the December 31, 2006 balance of retained earnings.      We adopted
SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurement.  SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures regarding fair value measurements. SFAS
No. 157 was effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim periods within those fiscal years. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial
position or cash flows.      In June 2006, the Emerging Issues Task Force of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) reached a consensus on
EITF Issue No. 06-4,  Accounting for Deferred Compensation and Postretirement Benefit Aspects of Endorsement Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements  ( EITF 06-4 ), which requires the application of the provisions of SFAS
No. 106,  Employers  Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions  ( SFAS 106 ) (if, in substance, a postretirement benefit plan exists), or Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 12 (if the
arrangement is, in substance, an individual deferred compensation contract) to endorsement split-dollar life insurance arrangements. SFAS 106 would require us to recognize a liability for the discounted value of the future premium benefits that we

34   

will incur through the death of the underlying insureds. EITF 06-4 is currently effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. We are
currently evaluating the potential impact, the adoption of EITF 06-4 may have on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows.      In March 2007, the FASB issued Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 06-10  Accounting for Collateral Assignment Split-Dollar Life Insurance Agreements  ( EITF 06-10 ). EITF 06-10 provides guidance for determining a
liability for the postretirement benefit obligation as well as recognition and measurement of the associated asset on the basis of the terms of the collateral assignment agreement. EITF 06-10 is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2007. We are currently evaluating the potential impact, the adoption of EITF 06-10 may have on our consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business Combinations  ( SFAS 141R ), which replaces FASB Statement
No. 141. SFAS 141R establishes the principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets acquired, the liabilities assumed, any non controlling interest in the acquiree
and the goodwill acquired. The Statement also establishes disclosure requirements which will enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of business combinations. SFAS 141R is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 2008. As of December 29, 2007, the Company has $176.6 million of unrecognized tax benefits (after considering the federal benefit of state taxes) related to business combinations that would be treated as an adjustment to the
purchase price allocation if they were recognized under SFAS No. 141. Upon adopting SFAS 141R, the remaining balance, if any, of these unrecognized tax benefits would affect the Company s effective income tax rate if they were recognized.
The Company is currently evaluating the other potential impacts, if any, the adoption of SFAS 141R may have on its consolidated results of operations, financial position and cash flows.         
      Cautionary Statement
Concerning Forward-Looking Statements        The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the  Reform Act ) provides a safe harbor for
forward-looking statements made by or on behalf of CVS Caremark Corporation. The Company and its representatives may, from time to time, make written or verbal forward-looking statements, including statements contained in the Company s filings
with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in its reports to stockholders. Generally, the inclusion of the words  believe,   expect,   intend,   estimate,   project,   anticipate, 
 will,   should  and similar expressions identify statements that constitute forward-looking statements. All statements addressing operating performance of CVS Caremark Corporation or any subsidiary, events or developments that
the Company expects or anticipates will occur in the future, including statements relating to revenue growth, earnings or earnings per common share growth, free cash flow, debt ratings, inventory levels, inventory turn and loss rates, store
development, relocations and new market entries, as well as statements expressing optimism or pessimism about future operating results or events, are forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Reform Act.      The forward-looking statements are and will be based upon management s then-current views and assumptions regarding future events and operating performance, and are
applicable only as of the dates of such statements. The Company undertakes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.      By their nature, all forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking
statements for a number of reasons, including but not limited to:       

Our ability to realize the incremental revenues, synergies and other benefits from the Caremark Merger as expected, and to successfully integrate the Caremark
businesses in accordance with the expected timing;      
       
   35   

The continued efforts of health maintenance organizations, managed care organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies and other third party payors to reduce
prescription drug costs and pharmacy reimbursement rates, particularly with respect to generic pharmaceuticals;          

The possibility of client loss and/or the failure to win new client business;          

The frequency and rate of introduction of successful new prescription drugs as well as generic alternatives to existing brand drugs;      

The effect on our Pharmacy Services business of a declining margin environment attributable to increased competition in the pharmacy benefit management industry and
increased client demands for lower prices, enhanced service offerings and/or higher service levels;          

Risks related to our inability to earn and retain purchase discounts and/or rebates from pharmaceutical manufacturers at current levels;

Risks regarding the impact of the new Medicare prescription drug benefit on our business;          

Risks related to the change in industry pricing benchmarks that could adversely affect our financial performance;          

Increased competition from other drugstore chains, supermarkets, discount retailers, membership clubs and Internet companies, as well as changes in consumer
preferences or loyalties;          

Litigation, legislative and regulatory risks associated with our business or the retail pharmacy business and/or pharmacy benefit management industry generally;

The risks relating to changes in laws and regulations, including changes in accounting standards and taxation requirements (including tax rate changes, new tax laws
and revised tax law interpretations);          

The risks relating to adverse developments in the healthcare or pharmaceutical industry generally, including, but not limited to, developments in any investigation
related to the pharmaceutical industry that may be conducted by any governmental authority;      

The strength of the economy in general or the markets we serve, which may impact consumer purchasing power, preferences and/or spending patterns, our ability to
attract, hire and retain suitable pharmacists, management, and other employees, our ability to establish effective advertising, marketing and promotional programs, our ability to obtain necessary financing on acceptable terms and our ability to
secure suitable store locations under acceptable terms; and          

Other risks and uncertainties detailed from time to time in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.         The foregoing list is not exhaustive. There can be no assurance that the Company has correctly identified and appropriately assessed all factors affecting its business.
Additional risks and uncertainties not presently known to the Company or that it currently believes to be immaterial also may adversely impact the Company. Should any risks and uncertainties develop into actual events, these developments could have
material adverse effects on the Company s business, financial condition and results of operations. For these reasons, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the Company s forward-looking statements.   
       
   36   

Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting       We are responsible for establishing and maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting. Our Company s internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that pertain to the Company s ability to record, process, summarize and report a system of internal accounting controls and procedures to provide reasonable assurance, at an appropriate cost/benefit
relationship, that the unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of assets are prevented or timely detected and that transactions are authorized, recorded and reported properly to permit the preparation of financial statements in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and receipt and expenditures are duly authorized. In order to ensure the Company s internal control over financial reporting is effective, management regularly assesses such controls and did so
most recently for its financial reporting as of December 29, 2007.      We conduct an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal controls over
financial reporting based on the framework in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. This evaluation included review of the documentation, evaluation of the design
effectiveness and testing of the operating effectiveness of controls. Our system of internal control over financial reporting is enhanced by periodic reviews by our internal auditors, written policies and procedures and a written Code of Conduct
adopted by our Company s Board of Directors, applicable to all employees of our Company. In addition, we have an internal Disclosure Committee, comprised of management from each functional area within the Company, which performs a separate
review of our disclosure controls and procedures. There are inherent limitations in the effectiveness of any system of internal controls over financial reporting.      Based on our evaluation, we conclude our Company s internal control over financial reporting is effective and provides reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that the financial records are reliable for preparing financial
statements as of December 29, 2007.      Ernst   Young LLP, independent registered public accounting firm, is appointed by the Board of Directors
and ratified by our Company s shareholders. They were engaged to render an opinion regarding the fair presentation of our consolidated financial statements as well as conducting a review of the system of internal accounting controls. Their
accompanying report is based upon an audit conducted in accordance with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).      February 25,
2008         
   37   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and Shareholders      CVS Caremark Corporation   
  We have audited CVS Caremark Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal
Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). CVS Caremark Corporation s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public
Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.
Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed
risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately
and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely
detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.      Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.      In our opinion, CVS
Caremark Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2007, based on the COSO criteria .       We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheet of CVS Caremark Corporation as of December 29, 2007, and the
related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders  equity and cash flows for the fifty-two week period ended December 29, 2007 and our report dated February 25, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/ Ernst   Young LLP       
       
   38   

Consolidated Statements of Operations        
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   39   

Consolidated Balance Sheets        
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   40   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   41   

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity        
       
   42   

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity        
    See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.         
   43   

1   
   Significant Accounting Policies          Description of business  ~
CVS Caremark Corporation (the  Company ) operates the largest retail pharmacy business (based on store count) and one of the largest pharmacy services businesses in the United States.      The retail pharmacy business sells prescription drugs and a wide assortment of general merchandise, including
over-the-counter drugs, beauty products and cosmetics, photo finishing, seasonal merchandise, greeting cards and convenience foods through its CVS/pharmacy      retail stores and online through
CVS.com     . The Company also provides healthcare services through its 462 MinuteClinic      healthcare clinics, 437 of which are
located in CVS/pharmacy retail stores.      The pharmacy services business provides a full range of
pharmacy benefit management services including mail order pharmacy services, specialty pharmacy services, plan design and administration, formulary management and claims processing. Its customers are primarily employers, insurance companies, unions,
government employee groups, managed care organizations and other sponsors of health benefit plans and individuals throughout the United States. In addition, through the Company s SilverScript insurance subsidiary, it is a national provider of
drug benefits to eligible beneficiaries under the Federal Government s Medicare Part D Program. The Company s specialty pharmacies support individuals that require complex and expensive drug therapies. The pharmacy services business
operates a national retail pharmacy network with over 60,000 participating pharmacies (including CVS/pharmacy stores). The Company also provides disease management programs for 27 conditions through our Accordant      disease management offering. Twenty-one of these programs are accredited by the National Committee for Quality Assurance. Currently, the pharmacy services business operates under the Caremark Pharmacy Services     , PharmaCare Management Services      and PharmaCare Pharmacy      names.
     As of December 29, 2007, the Company operated 6,301 retail and specialty pharmacy stores, 20 specialty mail order pharmacies, 9 mail service
pharmacies and 462 healthcare clinics in 44 states and the District of Columbia.         
     Basis of presentation  ~ The consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.       Stock Split  ~ On May 12, 2005, the Company s Board of Directors authorized a two-for-one stock split, which was effected through the issuance of one additional share of common stock for each share of common stock
outstanding. These shares were distributed on June 6, 2005 to shareholders of record as of May 23, 2005. All share and per share amounts presented herein have been restated to reflect the effect of the stock split.       Fiscal Year ~  The Company s fiscal year is a 52 or 53 week period ending on the Saturday nearest to December 31. Fiscal 2007, which ended on
December 29, 2007, fiscal 2006, which ended on December 30, 2006 and fiscal 2005, which ended on December 31, 2005, each included 52 weeks. Unless otherwise noted, all references to years relate to these fiscal years.       Reclassifications ~  Certain reclassifications have been made to the consolidated financial statements of prior years to conform to the current year presentation.
These reclassifications include payroll and operating expenses associated with the fulfillment of scripts in the mail order facilities and call center facilities within the Company s pharmacy services business, which have been reclassified from
operating expenses to cost of revenues.       Use of estimates ~  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.       Cash and cash equivalents ~  Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and temporary investments with maturities of three months or less when purchased.
      Short-term investments ~  The Company s short-term investments consist of auction rate securities with initial maturities greater than three
months when purchased. These investments, which are classified as available-for-sale, are carried at historical cost, which approximated fair value at December 29, 2007.   
       
   44   

Accounts receivable ~  Accounts receivable are stated net of an allowance for uncollectible accounts of $141.4 million and $73.4 million as of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, respectively. The balance primarily
includes amounts due from third party providers (e.g., pharmacy benefit managers, insurance companies and governmental agencies) and vendors as well as clients, participants and manufacturers.       Fair value of financial instruments  ~ As of December 29, 2007, the Company s financial instruments include cash and cash equivalents, short-term
investments, accounts receivable, accounts payable and short-term debt. Due to the short-term nature of these instruments, the Company s carrying value approximates fair value. The carrying amount and estimated fair value of long-term debt was
$8.2 billion as of December 29, 2007. The carrying amount and estimated fair value of long-term debt was $3.1 billion as of December 30, 2006. The fair value of long-term debt was estimated based on rates currently offered to the Company
for debt with similar terms and maturities. The Company had outstanding letters of credit, which guaranteed foreign trade purchases, with a fair value of $5.7 million as of December 29, 2007 and $6.8 million as of December 30, 2006. There
were no outstanding investments in derivative financial instruments as of December 29, 2007 or December 30, 2006.       Inventories  ~
Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market on a first-in, first-out basis using the retail method of accounting to determine cost of sales and inventory in our retail pharmacy stores, average cost to determine cost of sales and inventory
in our mail service and specialty pharmacies and the cost method of accounting to determine inventory in our distribution centers. Independent physical inventory counts are taken on a regular basis in each store and distribution center location
(other than six distribution centers, which perform a continuous cycle count process to validate the inventory balance on hand) to ensure that the amounts reflected in the accompanying consolidated financial statements are properly stated. During
the interim period between physical inventory counts, the Company accrues for anticipated physical inventory losses on a location-by-location basis based on historical results and current trends.         
     Property and equipment  ~ Property, equipment and improvements to leased premises are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, or when applicable, the term of the
lease, whichever is shorter. Estimated useful lives generally range from 10 to 40 years for buildings, building improvements and leasehold improvements and 3 to 10 years for fixtures and equipment. Repair and maintenance costs are charged directly
to expense as incurred. Major renewals or replacements that substantially extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized and depreciated.      Following
are the components of property and equipment:       
    The Company capitalizes application development stage costs for significant internally developed software
projects. These costs are amortized over the estimated useful lives of the software, which generally range from 3 to 5 years. Unamortized costs were $74.2 million as of December 29, 2007 and $75.5 million as of December 30, 2006.
      Goodwill ~  The Company accounts for goodwill and intangibles under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ( SFAS ) No. 142,
 Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  As such, goodwill and other indefinite-lived assets are not amortized, but are subject to impairment reviews annually, or more frequently if necessary. See Note 3 for further information on goodwill.
      Intangible assets ~  Purchased customer contracts and relationships are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of up
to 20 years. Purchased customer lists are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of up to 10 years. Purchased leases are amortized on a straight-line basis over the remaining life of the lease. See Note 3 for further
information on intangible assets.   
       
   45   

Impairment of long-lived assets  ~ The Company accounts for the impairment of long-lived assets in accordance with SFAS No. 144,  Accounting
for Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.  As such, the Company groups and evaluates fixed and finite-lived intangible assets excluding goodwill, for impairment at the lowest level at which individual cash flows can be identified. When
evaluating assets for potential impairment, the Company first compares the carrying amount of the asset group to the individual store s estimated future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest charges). If the estimated future cash flows
used in this analysis are less than the carrying amount of the asset group, an impairment loss calculation is prepared. The impairment loss calculation compares the carrying amount of the asset group to the asset group s estimated future cash
flows (discounted and with interest charges). If required, an impairment loss is recorded for the portion of the asset group s carrying value that exceeds the asset group s estimated future cash flows (discounted and with interest
charges).       Revenue Recognition:       Retail Pharmacy
Segment (the  RPS ) ~ The RPS recognizes revenue from the sale of merchandise (other than prescription drugs) at the time the merchandise is purchased by the retail customer. Revenue from the sale of prescription drugs is recognized at the
time the prescription is filled, which is or approximates when the retail customer picks up the prescription. Customer returns are not material. Revenue generated from the performance of services in the RPS  healthcare clinics is recognized at
the time the services are performed.      Pharmacy Services Segment (the  PSS ) ~ The PSS sells prescription drugs directly through its mail service
pharmacies and indirectly through its national retail pharmacy network. The PSS recognizes revenues from prescription drugs sold by its mail service pharmacies and under national retail pharmacy network contracts where the PSS is the principal using
the gross method at the contract prices negotiated with its customers. Net revenue from the PSS includes: (i) the portion of the price the customer pays directly to the PSS, net of any volume-related or other discounts paid back to the customer
(see  Drug Discounts  below), (ii) the portion of the price paid to the PSS ( Mail Co-payments ) or a third party pharmacy in the PSS  national retail pharmacy network ( Retail Co-payments ) by individuals

included in its customers  benefit plans and (iii) administrative fees for national retail pharmacy network contracts where the PSS is not the
principal as discussed below.      SEC Staff Accounting Bulletins No. 101,  Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements,  and 104,  Revenue
Recognition, corrected copy  ( SAB 101  and  SAB 104,  respectively) provide the general criteria for the timing aspect of revenue recognition, including consideration of whether: (i) persuasive evidence of an
arrangement exists, (ii) delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, (iii) the seller s price to the buyer is fixed or determinable and (iv) collectability is reasonably assured. The Company has established the
following revenue recognition policies for the PSS in accordance with SAB 101 and SAB 104:       

Revenues generated from prescription drugs sold by mail service pharmacies are recognized when the prescription is shipped. At the time of shipment, the Company has
performed substantially all of its obligations under its customer contracts and does not experience a significant level of reshipments.          

Revenues generated from prescription drugs sold by third party pharmacies in the PSS  national retail pharmacy network and associated administrative fees are
recognized at the PSS  point-of-sale, which is when the claim is adjudicated by the PSS  on-line claims processing system.         The
PSS determines whether it is the principal or agent for its national retail pharmacy network transactions using the indicators set forth in Emerging Issues Task Force ( EITF ) Issue No. 99-19,  Reporting Revenue Gross as a
Principal versus Net as an Agent  on a contract by contract basis. In the majority of its contracts, the PSS has determined it is the principal due to it: (i) being the primary obligor in the arrangement, (ii) having latitude in
establishing the price, changing the product or performing part of the service, (iii) having discretion in supplier selection, (iv) having involvement in the determination of product or service specifications and (v) having credit
risk. The PSS  obligations under its customer contracts for which revenues are reported using the gross method are separate and distinct from its obligations to the third party pharmacies under its national retail pharmacy network contracts.
Pursuant to these contracts, the PSS is contractually required to pay the third party pharmacies in its national retail pharmacy network for products sold, regardless of whether the PSS is paid by its customers. The  

46   

PSS  responsibilities under its customer contracts typically include validating eligibility and coverage levels, communicating the prescription price
and the co-payments due to the third party retail pharmacy, identifying possible adverse drug interactions for the pharmacist to address with the physician prior to dispensing, suggesting clinically appropriate generic alternatives where appropriate
and approving the prescription for dispensing. Although the PSS does not have credit risk with respect to Retail Co-payments, management believes that all of the other indicators of gross revenue reporting are present. For contracts under which the
PSS acts as an agent, the PSS records revenues using the net method.      Drug Discounts ~ The PSS deducts from its revenues any discounts paid to its
customers as required by Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 01-9,  Accounting for Consideration Given by a Vendor to a Customer (Including a Reseller of the Vendor s Products)  ( EITF 01-9 ). The PSS pays discounts to
its customers in accordance with the terms of its customer contracts, which are normally based on a fixed discount per prescription for specific products dispensed or a percentage of manufacturer discounts received for specific products dispensed.
The liability for discounts due to the PSS  customers is included in  Claims and discounts payable  in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.      Medicare Part D ~ The PSS began participating in the Federal Government s Medicare Part D program as a Prescription Drug Plan ( PDP ) on January 1, 2006. The PSS  net revenues include insurance premiums earned by
the PDP, which are determined based on the PSS  annual bid and related contractual arrangements with the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services ( CMS ). The insurance premiums include a beneficiary premium, which is the
responsibility of the PDP member, but is subsidized by CMS in the case of low-income members, and a direct subsidy paid by CMS. These insurance premiums are recognized in net revenues over the period in which members are entitled to receive
benefits. Premiums collected in advance are deferred.      In addition to these premiums, the PSS  net revenues include co-payments, deductibles and
coinsurance (collectively referred to as member responsibility amounts) related to PDP members  prescription claims. CMS subsidizes certain components of these member responsibility amounts and pays the PSS an estimated prospective subsidy
amount each month. The prospective subsidy   
   
 amounts received from CMS are recorded in  Accrued expenses  in the accompanying consolidated condensed balance sheets to the extent that they
differ from amounts earned based on actual claims experience.      The PSS accounts for CMS obligations and member responsibility amounts using the gross
method consistent with its revenue recognition policies, including the application of EITF 99-19. Additionally, the PSS includes actual amounts paid by members of its PDP to the third party pharmacies in its national retail pharmacy network in the
total Retail Co-payments included in net revenues.      Please see Note 13 for further information on revenues of the Company s business segments.
      Cost of revenues:       Retail Pharmacy Segment ~ The
RPS  cost of revenues includes: the cost of merchandise sold during the reporting period and the related purchasing costs, warehousing and delivery costs (including depreciation and amortization) and actual and estimated inventory losses.
     Pharmacy Services Segment ~ The PSS  cost of revenues includes: (i) the cost of prescription drugs sold during the reporting period directly
through its mail service pharmacies and indirectly through its national retail pharmacy network, (ii) shipping and handling costs and (iii) the operating costs of its mail service pharmacies and customer service operations and related
information technology support costs (including depreciation and amortization). The cost of prescription drugs sold component of cost of revenues includes: (i) the cost of the prescription drugs purchased from manufacturers or distributors and
shipped to participants in customers  benefit plans from the PSS  mail service pharmacies, net of any volume-related or other discounts (see  Drug Discounts  above) and (ii) the cost of prescription drugs sold (including
Retail Co-payments) through the PSS  national retail pharmacy network under contracts where it is the principal, net of any volume-related or other discounts.      Please see Note 13 for further information related to the cost of revenues of the Company s business segments.   
       
   47   

Vendor allowances and purchase discounts:       The Company
accounts for vendor allowances and purchase discounts under the guidance provided by EITF Issue No. 02-16,  Accounting by a Customer (Including a Reseller) for Certain Consideration Received from a Vendor,  and EITF Issue
No. 03-10,  Application of EITF Issue No. 02-16 by Resellers to Sales Incentives Offered to Consumers by Manufacturers.       Retail
Pharmacy Segment ~ Vendor allowances the RPS receives reduce the carrying cost of inventory and are recognized in cost of revenues when the related inventory is sold, unless they are specifically identified as a reimbursement of incremental costs
for promotional programs and/or other services provided. Funds that are directly linked to advertising commitments are recognized as a reduction of advertising expense (included in operating expenses) when the related advertising commitment is
satisfied. Any such allowances received in excess of the actual cost incurred also reduce the carrying cost of inventory. The total value of any upfront payments received from vendors that are linked to purchase commitments is initially deferred.
The deferred amounts are then amortized to reduce cost of revenues over the life of the contract based upon purchase volume. The total value of any upfront payments received from vendors that are not linked to purchase commitments is also initially
deferred. The deferred amounts are then amortized to reduce cost of revenues on a straight-line basis over the life of the related contract. The total amortization of these upfront payments was not material to the accompanying consolidated financial
statements.      Pharmacy Services Segment ~ The PSS receives purchase discounts on products purchased. The PSS  contractual arrangements with vendors,
including manufacturers, wholesalers and retail pharmacies, normally provide for the PSS to receive purchase discounts from established list prices in one, or a combination of, the following forms: (i) a direct discount at the time of purchase,
(ii) a discount for the prompt payment of invoices or (iii) when products are purchased indirectly from a manufacturer (e.g., through a wholesaler or retail pharmacy), a discount (or rebate) paid subsequent to dispensing. These rebates are
recognized when prescriptions are dispensed and are generally calculated and billed to manufacturers within 30 days of the end of each completed quarter. Historically, the effect of adjustments resulting from the reconciliation of rebates recognized

to the amounts billed and collected has not been material to the PSS  results of operations. The PSS accounts for the effect of any such differences as
a change in accounting estimate in the period the reconciliation is completed. The PSS also receives additional discounts under its wholesaler contract if it exceeds contractually defined annual purchase volumes.      The PSS earns purchase discounts at various points in its business cycle (e.g., when the product is purchased, when the vendor is paid or when the product is dispensed)
for products sold through its mail service pharmacies and third party pharmacies included in its national retail pharmacy network. In addition, the PSS receives fees from pharmaceutical manufacturers for administrative services. Purchase discounts
and administrative service fees are recorded as a reduction of  Cost of revenues  as required by EITF 02-16.       Shares held in trust ~ 
As a result of the Caremark Merger, the Company maintains grantor trusts, which held approximately 9.2 million shares of its common stock at December 29, 2007. These shares are designated for use under various employee compensation plans.
Since the Company holds these shares, they are excluded from the computation of basic and diluted shares outstanding.       Insurance ~  The Company is
self-insured for certain losses related to general liability, workers  compensation and auto liability. The Company obtains third party insurance coverage to limit exposure from these claims. The Company is also self-insured for certain losses
related to health and medical liabilities. The Company s self-insurance accruals, which include reported claims and claims incurred but not reported, are calculated using standard insurance industry actuarial assumptions and the Company s
historical claims experience.       Store opening and closing costs  ~ New store opening costs, other than capital expenditures, are charged directly to
expense when incurred. When the Company closes a store, the present value of estimated unrecoverable costs, including the remaining lease obligation less estimated sublease income and the book value of abandoned property and equipment, are charged
to expense. The long-term portion of the lease obligations associated with store closings was $370.0 million and $418.0 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively.   
       
   48   

Advertising costs  ~ Advertising costs are expensed when the related advertising takes place. Advertising costs, net of vendor funding, (included in operating expenses), were $290.6 million in 2007, $265.3 million in 2006 and $206.6
million in 2005.       Interest expense, net  ~ Interest expense was $468.3 million, $231.7 million and $117.0 million, and interest income was $33.7
million, $15.9 million and $6.5 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Capitalized interest totaled $23.7 million in 2007, $20.7 million in 2006 and $12.7 million in 2005.       Accumulated other comprehensive loss  ~ Accumulated other comprehensive loss consists of changes in the net actuarial gains and losses associated with pension and other post retirement benefit plans, unrealized
losses on derivatives and adjustment to initially apply SFAS No. 158. In accordance with SFAS No. 158, the amount included in accumulated other comprehensive income related to the Company s pension and post retirement plans was $58.7
million pre-tax ($35.9 million after-tax) as of December 29, 2007 and $87.4 million pre-tax ($55.4 million after-tax) as of December 30, 2006. The unrealized loss on derivatives totaled $21.9 million pre-tax ($13.8 million after-tax) and
$27.2 million pre-tax ($17.2 million after-tax) as of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, respectively.       Stock-based compensation  ~
On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment,  using the modified prospective transition method. Under this method, compensation expense is recognized for options granted on or after
January 1, 2006 as well as any unvested options on the date of adoption. As allowed under the modified prospective transition method, prior period financial statements have not been restated. Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted
for its stock-based compensation plans under the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  and related interpretations. As such,
no stock-based employee compensation costs were reflected in net earnings for options granted under those plans since they had an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. See Note 8 for
further information on stock-based compensation.         
     Income taxes  ~ The Company provides for federal and state
income taxes currently payable, as well as for those deferred because of timing differences between reported income and expenses for financial statement purposes versus tax purposes. Federal and state tax credits are recorded as a reduction of
income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax
purposes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using the enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recoverable or settled. The effect of a change in tax
rates is recognized as income or expense in the period of the change. See Note 12 for further information on income taxes.       Earnings per common share
 ~ Basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing: (i) net earnings, after deducting the after-tax Employee Stock Ownership Plan ( ESOP ) preference dividends, by (ii) the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding during the year (the  Basic Shares ).      When computing diluted earnings per common share, the Company assumes that the ESOP preference
stock is converted into common stock and all dilutive stock awards are exercised. After the assumed ESOP preference stock conversion, the ESOP Trust would hold common stock rather than ESOP preference stock and would receive common stock dividends
($0.22875 per share in 2007, $0.15500 per share in 2006 and $0.14500 per share in 2005) rather than ESOP preference stock dividends (currently $3.90 per share). Since the ESOP Trust uses the dividends it receives to service its debt, the Company
would have to increase its contribution to the ESOP Trust to compensate it for the lower dividends. This additional contribution would reduce the Company s net earnings, which in turn, would reduce the amounts that would be accrued under the
Company s incentive compensation plans.   
       
   49   

Diluted earnings per common share is computed by dividing: (i) net earnings, after accounting for the difference between the dividends on the ESOP preference stock and common stock and after making adjustments for the incentive
compensation plans, by (ii) Basic Shares plus the additional shares that would be issued assuming that all dilutive stock awards are exercised and the ESOP preference stock is converted into common stock. Options to purchase 10.7 million,
4.7 million and 6.9 million shares of common stock were outstanding as of December 29, 2007, December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively, but were not included in the calculation of diluted earnings per share
because the options  exercise prices were greater than the average market price of the common shares and, therefore, the effect would be antidilutive.       New Accounting Pronouncements  ~ The Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for Uncertainty in income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN
48 ) effective December 31, 2006. FIN 48 addresses the uncertainty about how certain income tax positions taken or expected to be taken on an income tax return should be reflected in the financial statements before they are finally
resolved. As a result of the implementation, the Company recognized a decrease to reserves for uncertain income tax positions of approximately $4.0 million, which was accounted for as an increase to the December 31, 2006 balance of retained
earnings.      The Company adopted SFAS No. 157,  Fair Value Measurement.  SFAS No. 157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for
measuring fair value in generally accepted accounting principles and expands disclosures regarding fair value measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and interim periods within those
fiscal years. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact on its consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.      In June 2006, the Emerging Issues Task Force of the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) reached a consensus on EITF Issue No. 06-4,  Accounting for Deferred Compensation and Postretirement Benefit Aspects of
Endorsement Split-Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements  ( EITF 06-4 ), which requires the application of the provisions of SFAS No. 106,  Employers          
    Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions  ( SFAS 106 ) (if, in substance, a postretirement benefit plan exists), or Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 12 (if the arrangement is, in substance, an individual deferred
compensation contract) to endorsement split-dollar life insurance arrangements. SFAS 106 would require the Company to recognize a liability for the discounted value of the future benefits that it will incur through the death of the underlying
insured s. EITF 06-4 is currently effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact, the adoption of EITF 06-4 may have on its consolidated results of operations,
financial position and cash flows.      In March 2007, the FASB issued Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 06-10  Accounting for Collateral
Assignment Split-Dollar Life Insurance Agreements  (EITF 06-10). EITF 06-10 provides guidance for determining a liability for the postretirement benefit obligation as well as recognition and measurement of the associated asset on the basis of
the terms of the collateral assignment agreement. EITF 06-10 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2007. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact, the adoption of EITF 06-10 may have on its consolidated
results of operations, financial position and cash flows.      In December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141 (revised 2007),  Business
Combinations  ( SFAS 141R ), which replaces FASB Statement No. 141. SFAS 141R establishes the principles and requirements for how an acquirer recognizes and measures in its financial statements the identifiable assets
acquired, the liabilities assumed, any non controlling interest in the acquiree and the goodwill acquired. The Statement also establishes disclosure requirements which will enable users to evaluate the nature and financial effects of business
combinations. SFAS 141R is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. The Company is currently evaluating the potential impact, if any, the adoption of SFAS 141R may have on its consolidated results of operations,
financial position and cash flows.   
       
   50   

2   
   Business Combinations          Caremark Merger       Effective March 22, 2007, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 1, 2006, as amended (the  Merger Agreement ), Caremark Rx,
Inc. ( Caremark ) was merged with and into a newly formed subsidiary of CVS Corporation, with the CVS subsidiary continuing as the surviving entity (the  Caremark Merger ). Following the merger, the Company changed its name to
CVS Caremark Corporation.      Under the terms of the Merger Agreement, Caremark shareholders received 1.67 shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share,
of the Company for each share of common stock of Caremark, par value $0.001 per share, issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the merger. In addition, Caremark shareholders of record as of the close of business on the day
immediately preceding the closing date of the merger received a special cash dividend of $7.50 per share.      The merger was accounted for using the purchase
method of accounting under U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Under the purchase method of accounting, CVS Corporation is considered the acquirer of Caremark for accounting purposes and the total purchase price will be allocated to the
assets acquired and liabilities assumed from Caremark based on their fair values as of March 22, 2007. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total consideration was approximately $26.9 billion and includes amounts related to Caremark
common stock ($23.3 billion), Caremark stock options ($0.6 billion) and the special cash dividend ($3.2 billion), less shares held in trust ($0.3 billion). The consideration associated with the common stock and stock options was based on the average
closing price of CVS common stock for the five trading days ending February 14, 2007, which was $32.67 per share. The results of the operations of Caremark have been included in the consolidated statements of operations since March 22,
2007.      Following is a summary of the estimated assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of March 22, 2007. This estimate is preliminary and based on
information that was available to management at the time the consolidated financial statements were prepared. Accordingly, the allocation will change and the impact of such changes could be material.         
     Estimated Assets Acquired and Liabilities Assumed        as of March 22, 2007

(1)  
  Intangible assets include customer contracts and relationships ($2.9 billion) with an estimated weighted average life of 14.7 years, proprietary technology ($109.8 million) with an
estimated weighted average life of 3.5 years, favorable leaseholds ($12.7 million) with an estimated weighted average life of 6.2 years, covenants not to compete ($9.0 million) with an estimated average life of 2 years and trade names ($6.4
billion), which are indefinitely lived.         

(2)  
  Accrued expenses currently include $49.5 million for estimated severance, benefits and outplacement costs for approximately 240 Caremark employees that have been or will be
terminated. The amount accrued and the number of employees affected may continue to increase as exit plans are finalized and communicated. As of December 29, 2007, $48.1 million of the liability has been settled with cash payments. The
remaining liability will require future cash payments through 2008. Accrued expenses also include $1.4 million for the estimated costs associated with the non-cancelable lease obligation of one location. As of December 29, 2007, $0.5 million of
the liability has been settled with cash payments. The remaining liability will require future cash payments through 2008.     
       
   51   

Standalone Drug Business       On June 2, 2006, CVS acquired certain assets and assumed certain liabilities from Albertson s, Inc.
( Albertsons ) for $4.0 billion. The assets acquired and the liabilities assumed included approximately 700 standalone drugstores and a distribution center (collectively the  Standalone Drug Business ).      In conjunction with the acquisition of the Standalone Drug Business, during fiscal 2006, the Company recorded a $49.5 million liability for the estimated costs
associated with the non-cancelable lease obligations of 94 acquired stores that the Company does not intend to operate. As of December 29, 2007, 81 of these locations have been closed and $3.6 million of this liability has been settled with
cash payments. The $47.5 million remaining liability, which includes $3.1 million of interest accretion, will require future cash payments through 2033, unless settled prior thereto. The Company believes the remaining liability is adequate to cover
the remaining costs associated with the related activities.      The following unaudited pro forma combined results of operations have been provided for
illustrative purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of the actual results that would have been achieved by the combined companies for the periods presented or that will be achieved by the combined companies in the future:       

(1)  
  The pro forma combined results of operations assume that the Caremark Merger and the acquisition of the Standalone Drug Business occurred at the beginning of each period presented.
These results have been prepared by adjusting the historical results of the Company to include the historical results of Caremark and the Standalone Drug Business, incremental interest expense and the impact of the preliminary purchase price
allocation discussed above. The historical results of Caremark are based on a calendar period end, whereas the historical results of the Pharmacy Services Segment of CVS are based on a 52 week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest to
December 31.         

(2)  
  Inter-company revenues that occur when a Caremark customer uses a CVS/pharmacy retail store to purchase covered products were eliminated. These adjustments had no impact on pro
forma net earnings or pro forma earnings per share.           

(3)  
  The pro forma combined results of operations do not include any cost savings that may result from the combination of the Company and Caremark or any estimated costs that will be
incurred by the Company to integrate the businesses.         

(4)  
  The pro forma combined results of operations for fiscal year ended December 29, 2007, exclude $80.3 million pre-tax ($48.6 million after-tax) of stock option expense associated
with the accelerated vesting of certain Caremark stock options, which vested upon consummation of the merger due to change in control provisions included in the underlying Caremark stock option plans. The pro forma combined results for the fiscal
year ended December 29, 2007 also exclude $42.9 million pre-tax ($25.9 million after-tax) related to change in control payments due upon the consummation of the merger due to change in control provisions in certain Caremark employment
agreements. In addition, the pro forma combined results of operations for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007, exclude merger-related costs of $150.1 million pre-tax ($101.7 million after-tax), which primarily consist of investment banker
fees, legal fees, accounting fees and other merger-related costs incurred by Caremark.         

3   
   Goodwill and Other Intangibles         The Company accounts for goodwill
and intangibles under SFAS No. 142,  Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets.  Under SFAS No. 142, goodwill and other indefinitely-lived assets are not amortized, but are subject to annual impairment reviews, or more frequent
reviews if events or circumstances indicate an impairment may exist.      When evaluating goodwill for potential impairment, the Company first compares the
fair value of the reporting unit, based on estimated future discounted cash flows, to its carrying amount. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, an impairment loss calculation is prepared. The impairment
loss calculation compares the implied fair value of a reporting unit s goodwill with the carrying amount of its goodwill. If the carrying amount of the goodwill exceeds the implied fair value, an impairment loss is recognized in an amount equal
to the excess. During the third quarter of 2007, the Company performed its required annual goodwill impairment tests, and concluded there were no goodwill impairments.      Indefinitely-lived intangible assets are tested by comparing the estimated fair value of the asset to its carrying value. If the carrying value of the asset exceeds its estimated fair value, an impairment loss is
recognized and the asset is written down to its estimated fair value.   
       
   52   

The carrying amount of goodwill was $23.9 billion and $3.2 billion as of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006, respectively. During 2007, gross
goodwill increased primarily in the Pharmacy Services Segment due to the Caremark Merger. There was no impairment of goodwill during 2007.      The carrying
amount of indefinitely-lived assets was $6.4 billion as of December 29, 2007. The Company had no indefinitely-lived assets as of December 30, 2006. The increase in the Company s indefinitely-lived assets during 2007 was due to the
recognition of trademarks associated with the Caremark Merger.         
   
 Intangible assets with finite useful lives are amortized over their estimated useful lives. The increase in the gross carrying amount of the Company s
amortizable intangible assets during 2007 was primarily due to the Caremark Merger and adjustments related to the Standalone Drug Business. The amortization expense for intangible assets totaled $344.1 million in 2007, $161.2 million in 2006 and
$128.6 million in 2005. The anticipated annual amortization expense for these intangible assets is $387.2 million in 2008, $373.8 million in 2009, $361.5 million in 2010, $352.7 million in 2011 and $334.5 million in 2012.   
        Following is a summary of the Company s intangible assets as of the respective
balance sheet dates:       

4   
   Share Repurchase Program         In connection with the Caremark Merger,
on March 28, 2007, the Company commenced a tender offer to purchase up to 150 million common shares, or about 10%, of its outstanding common stock at a price of $35.00 per share. The tender offer expired on April 24, 2007 and resulted
in approximately 10.3 million shares being tendered. The shares were placed into the Company s treasury account.      On May 9, 2007, the Board
of Directors of the Company authorized a share repurchase program for up to $5.0 billion of the Company s outstanding common stock.      On May 13,
2007, the Company entered into a $2.5 billion fixed dollar accelerated share repurchase (the  May ASR ) agreement with Lehman Brothers, Inc. ( Lehman ). The May ASR agreement contained provisions that established the minimum and
maximum number of shares to be repurchased during the term of the May ASR agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the May ASR agreement, on May 14, 2007, the Company paid $2.5 billion to Lehman in exchange for   
   
 Lehman delivering 45.6 million shares of common stock to the Company, which were placed into its treasury account upon delivery. On June 7, 2007,
upon establishment of the minimum number of shares to be repurchased, Lehman delivered an additional 16.1 million shares of common stock to the Company. The May ASR program concluded on October 5, 2007 and resulted in the Company receiving
an additional 5.8 million shares of common stock during the fourth quarter of 2007. As of December 29, 2007 the aggregate 67.5 million shares of common stock received pursuant to the $2.5 billion May ASR agreement had been placed into
the Company s treasury account.      On October 8, 2007, the Company commenced an open market repurchase program. The program concluded on
November 2, 2007 and resulted in 5.3 million shares of common stock being repurchased for $211.9 million. The shares were placed into the Company s treasury account upon delivery.      On November 6, 2007, the Company entered into a $2.3 billion fixed dollar accelerated share repurchase (the  November ASR ) agreement with Lehman. The
November ASR agreement contained provisions that established the minimum and maximum number of shares to be repurchased during the term of the November   
       
   53   

ASR agreement. Pursuant to the terms of the November ASR agreement, on November 7, 2007, the Company paid $2.3 billion to Lehman in exchange for Lehman
delivering 37.2 million shares of common stock to the Company, which were placed into its treasury account upon delivery. On November 26, 2007, upon establishment of the minimum number of shares to be repurchased, Lehman delivered an
additional 14.4 million shares of common stock to the Company. As of December 29, 2007, the aggregate 51.6 million shares of common stock, received pursuant to the November ASR agreement, had been placed into the Company s
treasury account. The Company may receive up to 5.7 million of additional shares of common stock, depending on the market price of the common stock, as determined under the November ASR agreement, over the term of the November ASR agreement,
which is currently expected to conclude during the first quarter of 2008.       

5   
   Borrowing and Credit Agreements         Following is a summary of the
Company s borrowings as of the respective balance sheet dates:       

(1)  
  See Note 8 for further information about the Company s ESOP Plan.           
    In connection with its
commercial paper program, the Company maintains a $675 million, five-year unsecured back-up credit facility, which expires on June 11, 2009, a $675 million, five-year unsecured back-up credit facility, which expires on June 2, 2010, a $1.4
billion, five-year unsecured back-up credit facility, which expires on May 12, 2011 and a $1.3 billion, five-year unsecured back-up credit facility, which expires on March 12, 2012. The credit facilities allow for borrowings at various
rates depending on the Company s public debt ratings and requires the Company to pay a quarterly facility fee of 0.1%, regardless of usage. As of December 29, 2007, the Company had no outstanding borrowings against the credit facilities.
The weighted average interest rate for short-term debt was 5.3% as of December 29, 2007 and December 30, 2006.      On May 22, 2007, the Company
issued $1.75 billion of floating rate senior notes due June 1, 2010, $1.75 billion of 5.75% unsecured senior notes due June 1, 2017, and $1.0 billion of 6.25% unsecured senior notes due June 1, 2027 (collectively the  2007
Notes ). Also on May 22, 2007, the Company entered into an underwriting agreement with Lehman Brothers, Inc., Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated, Banc of America Securities LLC, BNY Capital Markets, Inc., and Wachovia Capital
Markets, LLC, as representatives of the underwriters pursuant to which the Company agreed to issue and sell $1.0 billion of Enhanced Capital Advantaged Preferred Securities ( ECAPS ) due June 1, 2062 to the underwriters. The ECAPS
bear interest at 6.302% per year until June 1, 2012 at which time they will pay interest based on a floating rate. The 2007 Notes and ECAPS pay interest semi-annually and may be redeemed at any time, in whole or in part at a defined
redemption price plus accrued interest. The net proceeds from the 2007 Notes and ECAPS were used to repay the bridge credit facility and commercial paper borrowings.      On August 15, 2006, the Company issued $800 million of 5.75% unsecured senior notes due August 15, 2011 and $700 million of 6.125% unsecured senior notes due August 15, 2016 (collectively the  2006
Notes ). The 2006 Notes pay interest semi-annually and may be redeemed at any time, in whole or in part at a defined redemption price plus accrued interest. Net proceeds from the 2006 Notes were used to repay a portion of the outstanding
commercial paper issued to finance the acquisition of the Standalone Drug Business.   
       
   54   

To manage a portion of the risk associated with potential changes in market interest rates, during the second quarter of 2006 the Company entered into forward starting pay fixed rate swaps (the  Swaps ), with a notional amount of
$750 million. During 2006, the Swaps settled in conjunction with the placement of the long-term financing, at a loss of $5.3 million. The Company accounts for the above derivatives in accordance with SFAS No. 133,  Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities,  as modified by SFAS No. 138,  Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities,  which requires the resulting loss to be recorded in shareholders  equity as
a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. This unrealized loss will be amortized as a component of interest expense over the life of the related long-term financing. As of December 29, 2007, the Company had no freestanding
derivatives in place.      The credit facilities, unsecured senior notes and ECAPS contain customary restrictive financial and operating covenants. The
covenants do not materially affect the Company s financial or operating flexibility.      The aggregate maturities of long-term debt for each of the five
years subsequent to December 29, 2007 are $47.2 million in 2008, $653.0 million in 2009, $1.8 billion in 2010, $803.9 million in 2011 and $1.0 billion in 2012.       
    The Company leases most of its retail and mail locations,
nine of its distribution centers and certain corporate offices under non-cancelable operating leases, with initial terms of 15 to 25 years and with options that permit renewals for additional periods. The Company also leases certain equipment and
other assets under non-cancelable operating leases, with initial terms of 3 to 10 years. Minimum rent is expensed on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. In addition to minimum rental payments, certain leases require additional payments
based on sales volume, as well as reimbursement for real estate taxes, common area maintenance and insurance, which are expensed when incurred.         
    Following is a summary of the Company s net rental expense
for operating leases for the respective years:       
    Following is a summary of the future minimum lease payments under capital and operating leases as of
December 29, 2007:       
    The Company finances a portion of its store development program through sale-leaseback transactions. The
properties are sold and the resulting leases qualify and are accounted for as operating leases. The Company does not have any retained or contingent interests in the stores and does not provide any guarantees, other than a guarantee of lease
payments, in connection with the sale-leaseback transactions. Proceeds from sale-leaseback transactions totaled $601.3 million, $1.4 billion, which included approximately $800 million in proceeds associated with the sale and leaseback of properties
acquired as part of the acquisition of the Standalone Drug Business, and $539.9 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The operating leases that resulted from these transactions are included in the above table.   
       
   55   

7   
   Medicare Part D         The Company offers Medicare Part D benefits
through its wholly-owned subsidiary SilverScript Insurance Company ( SilverScript ) which has been approved by the CMS as a PDP. SilverScript has contracted with CMS to be the Company s PDP and, pursuant to the Medicare Prescription
Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 ( MMA ), must be a risk-bearing entity regulated under state insurance laws or similar statutes.      SilverScript is licensed through the Tennessee Department of Commerce and Insurance (the  TDCI )as a domestic insurance company under the applicable laws and regulations of the State of Tennessee. Pursuant to these laws and
regulations, SilverScript must file quarterly and annual reports with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ( NAIC ) and the TDCI, must maintain certain minimum amounts of capital and surplus under a formula established by
the NAIC and must, in certain circumstances, request and receive the approval of the TDCI before making dividend payments or other capital distributions to the Company. The Company does not believe these limitations on dividends and distributions
materially impact its financial position. SilverScript is licensed as or has filed expansion applications for licensure as an insurance company in other jurisdictions where it does or may seek to do business. Certain of the expansion insurance
licensure applications for states in which SilverScipt currently operates were pending as of the date of this filing.      The Company has recorded estimates
of various assets and liabilities arising from its participation in the Medicare Part D program based on information in its claims management and enrollment systems. Significant estimates arising from its participation in this program include:
(i) estimates of low-income cost subsidy and reinsurance amounts ultimately payable to or receivable from CMS based on a detailed claims reconciliation that will occur in 2008; (ii) estimates of amounts payable to or receivable from other
PDPs for claims costs incurred as a result of retroactive enrollment changes, which were communicated by CMS after such claims had been incurred; and (iii) an estimate of amounts receivable from or payable to CMS under a risk-sharing feature of
the Medicare Part D program design, referred to as the risk corridor.         

8   
   Employee Stock Ownership Plan         The Company sponsors a defined
contribution Employee Stock Ownership Plan (the  ESOP ) that covers full-time employees with at least one year of service.      In 1989, the ESOP
Trust issued and sold $357.5 million of 20-year, 8.52% notes due December 31, 2008 (the  ESOP Notes ). The proceeds from the ESOP Notes were used to purchase 6.7 million shares of Series One ESOP Convertible Preference Stock (the
 ESOP Preference Stock ) from the Company. Since the ESOP Notes are guaranteed by the Company, the outstanding balance is reflected as long-term debt, and a corresponding guaranteed ESOP obligation is reflected in shareholders  equity
in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.      Each share of ESOP Preference Stock has a guaranteed minimum liquidation value of $53.45, is convertible
into 4.628 shares of common stock and is entitled to receive an annual dividend of $3.90 per share.      The ESOP Trust uses the dividends received and
contributions from the Company to repay the ESOP Notes. As the ESOP Notes are repaid, ESOP Preference Stock is allocated to participants based on (i) the ratio of each year s debt service payment to total current and future debt service
payments multiplied by (ii) the number of unallocated shares of ESOP Preference Stock in the plan.      As of December 29, 2007, 3.8 million
shares of ESOP Preference Stock were outstanding, of which 3.4 million shares were allocated to participants and the remaining 0.4 million shares were held in the ESOP Trust for future allocations.      Annual ESOP expense recognized is equal to (i) the interest incurred on the ESOP Notes plus (ii) the higher of (a) the principal repayments or
(b) the cost of the shares allocated, less (iii) the dividends paid. Similarly, the guaranteed ESOP obligation is reduced by the higher of (i) the principal payments or (ii) the cost of shares allocated.      Following is a summary of the ESOP activity for the respective years:       

56   

9   
   Pension Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits          Defined
Contribution Plans       The Company sponsors voluntary 401(k) Savings Plans that cover substantially all employees who meet plan eligibility requirements.
The Company makes matching contributions consistent with the provisions of the plans. At the participant s option, account balances, including the Company s matching contribution, can be moved without restriction among various investment
options, including the Company s common stock. The Company also maintains a nonqualified, unfunded Deferred Compensation Plan for certain key employees. This plan provides participants the opportunity to defer portions of their compensation and
receive matching contributions that they would have otherwise received under the 401(k) Savings Plan if not for certain restrictions and limitations under the Internal Revenue Code. The Company s contributions under the above defined
contribution plans totaled $80.6 million in 2007, $63.7 million in 2006 and $64.9 million in 2005. The Company also sponsors an Employee Stock Ownership Plan. See Note 8 for further information about this plan.       Other Postretirement Benefits       The Company provides postretirement
healthcare and life insurance benefits to certain retirees who meet eligibility requirements. The Company s funding policy is generally to pay covered expenses as they are incurred. For retiree medical plan accounting, the Company reviews
external data and its own historical trends for healthcare costs to determine the healthcare cost trend rates. As of December 31, 2007 the Company s postretirement medical plans have an accumulated postretirement benefit obligation of
$18.2 million. Net periodic benefit costs related to these postretirement medical plans were $0.8 million and $0.3 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. As of December 31, 2006 the Company s postretirement medical plans had an
accumulated postretirement benefit obligation of $10.2 million.       Pension Plans       The Company sponsors nine non-contributory defined benefit pension plans that cover certain full-time employees, which were frozen in prior periods. These plans are funded based on actuarial calculations and
applicable federal regulations. As of December 31, 2007, the Company s qualified defined benefit plans have a projected benefit obligation of $517.5 million and plan assets of $420.7 million. As of December 31, 2006, the
Company s   
   
 qualified defined benefit plans had a projected benefit obligation of $419.0 million and plan assets of $313.6 million. Net periodic pension costs related to
these qualified benefit plans were $13.6 million and $17.2 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively.      The discount rate is determined by examining the
current yields observed on the measurement date of fixed-interest, high quality investments expected to be available during the period to maturity of the related benefits on a plan by plan basis. The discount rate for the plans ranged from 5.25% to
6.25% in 2007 and was 6.00% in 2006. The expected long-term rate of return is determined by using the target allocation and historical returns for each asset class on a plan by plan basis. The expected long-term rate of return for all plans was 8.5%
in 2007 and 2006.      The Company uses an investment strategy, which emphasizes equities in order to produce higher expected returns, and in the long run,
lower expected expense and cash contribution requirements. The pension plan assets allocation targets for the Retail Pharmacy Segment are 70% equity and 30% fixed income. The pension plan asset allocation targets for the Pharmacy Services Segment
are 77% equity, 19% fixed income and 4% cash equivalents. The Retail Pharmacy Segment s qualified defined benefit pension plans asset allocations as of December 31, 2007 were 72% equity, 27% fixed income and 1% other. The Pharmacy Services
Segment qualified defined benefit pension plans asset allocations as of December 31, 2007 were 75% equity, 23% fixed income and 2% other.      The Company
utilized a measurement date of December 31 to determine pension and other postretirement benefit measurements. The Company plans to make a $1.5 million contribution to the pension plans during the upcoming year.      Pursuant to various labor agreements, the Company is also required to make contributions to certain union-administered pension and health and welfare plans that totaled
$40.0 million in 2007, $37.6 million in 2006 and $15.4 million in 2005. The Company also has nonqualified supplemental executive retirement plans in place for certain key employees.      The Company adopted SFAS No. 158,  Employer s Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans-an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R),   

57   

effective December 15, 2006. SFAS No. 158 requires an employer to recognize in its statement of financial position an asset for a plan s
overfunded status or a liability for a plan s underfunded status, measure a plan s assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer s fiscal year, and recognize changes in the funded status of
a defined benefit postretirement plan in the year in which the changes occur. Those changes are reported in comprehensive income and in a separate component of shareholders  equity. The adoption of this statement did not have a material impact
on the Company s consolidated results of operations, financial position or cash flows.       

10   
   Stock Incentive Plans         On January 1, 2006, the Company adopted
SFAS No. 123(R),  Share-Based Payment,  using the modified prospective transition method. Under this method, compensation expense is recognized for options granted on or after January 1, 2006 as well as any unvested options on
the date of adoption. Compensation expense for unvested stock options outstanding at January 1, 2006 is recognized over the requisite service period based on the grant-date fair value of those options and awards as previously calculated under
the SFAS No. 123(R) pro forma disclosure requirements. As allowed under the modified prospective transition method, prior period financial statements have not been restated. Prior to January 1, 2006, the Company accounted for its
stock-based compensation plans under the recognition and measurement principles of Accounting Principles Board ( APB ) Opinion No. 25,  Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,  and related interpretations. As such, no
stock based employee compensation costs were reflected in net earnings for options granted under those plans since they had an exercise price equal to the fair market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant.      Compensation expense related to stock options, which includes the 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( 1999 ESPP ) and the 2007 Employee Stock Purchase Plan
( 2007 ESPP  and collectively the  ESPP ) totaled $84.5 million for 2007, compared to $60.7 million for 2006. The recognized tax benefit was $26.9 million and $18.0 million for 2007 and 2006, respectively. Compensation expense
related to restricted stock awards totaled   
   
 $12.1 million for 2007, compared to $9.2 million for 2006. Compensation costs associated with the Company s share-based payments are included in
selling, general and administrative expenses.      The following table includes the effect on net earnings and earnings per share if stock compensation costs
had been determined consistent with the fair value recognition provisions of SFAS No. 123(R) for 2005:       

In millions, except per share amounts     
      
   2005    
 
    Net earnings, as reported   
      
  $  
  1,224.7   
 
    Add: Stock-based employee compensation expense included in reported net earnings, net of related tax effects   (1)      

4.8   
 
    Deduct: Total stock-based employee compensation expense determined under fair value based method for all awards, net of related tax effects

48.6   

Pro forma net earnings   
      
  $  
  1,180.9   

Basic EPS:       As reported   
      
  $  
  1.49   
 
    Pro forma   

1.44   

Diluted EPS:    As reported   
      
  $  
  1.45   
 
    Pro forma   

1.40   

(1)  
  Amounts represent the after-tax compensation costs for restricted stock grants and expense related to the acceleration of vesting of stock options on certain terminated employees.
       The 1999 ESPP provides for the purchase of up to 14.8 million shares of common stock. As a result of the 1999 ESPP not having
sufficient shares available for the program to continue beyond 2007, the Board of Directors adopted, and shareholders approved, the 2007 ESPP. Under the 2007 ESPP, eligible employees may purchase common stock at the end of each six-month offering
period, at a purchase price equal to 85% of the lower of the fair market value on the first day or the last day of the offering period and provides for the purchase of up to 15.0 million shares of common stock. During 2007, 1.9 million
shares of common stock were purchased, under the provisions of the 1999 ESPP, at an average price of $25.10 per share. As of December 29, 2007, 14.1 million shares of common stock have been issued under the 1999 ESPP. As of
December 29, 2007, no common stock had been issued under the 2007 ESPP.      The fair value of stock compensation expense associated with the
Company s ESPP is estimated on the date of grant (i.e., the beginning of the offering period) using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model and is recorded as a liability, which is adjusted to reflect the fair value of the award at the end of
each reporting period until settlement date.   
       
   58   

Following is a summary of the assumptions used to value the ESPP awards for each of the respective periods:   

(1)  
  The dividend yield is calculated based on semi-annual dividends paid and the fair market value of the Company s stock at the period end date.         

(2)  
  The expected volatility is based on the historical volatility of the Company s daily stock market prices over the previous six month period.         

(3)  
  The risk-free interest rate is based on the Treasury constant maturity interest rate whose term is consistent with the expected term of ESPP options (i.e., 6 months).

(4)  
  The expected life is based on the semi-annual purchase period.        The
Company s 1997 Incentive Compensation Plan (the  ICP ) provides for the granting of up to 152.8 million shares of common stock in the form of stock options and other awards to selected officers, employees and directors of the
Company. The ICP allows for up to 7.2 million restricted shares to be issued. The Company s restricted awards are considered nonvested share awards as defined under SFAS 123(R). The restricted awards require no payment from the employee.
Compensation cost is recorded based on the market price on the grant date and is recognized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period.      The Company granted 5,000 and 427,000 shares of restricted stock with a weighted average per share grant date fair value of $28.71 and $24.80, in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition, the Company granted 1,129,000, 673,000 and 812,000
restricted stock units with a weighted average fair value of $33.75, $29.40 and $26.02 in 2007, 2006 and 2005 respectively. Compensation costs for restricted shares and units totaled $12.1 million in 2007, $9.2 million in 2006 and $5.9 million in
2005.      In 2007, the Board of Directors adopted and shareholders approved the 2007 Incentive Plan. The terms of the 2007 Incentive Plan provide for grants
of annual incentive and long-term performance awards that may be settled in cash or other property to executive officers and other officers and employees of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company. No awards were granted from the 2007 Incentive
Plan during 2007.      Following is a summary of the restricted share award activity under the ICP as of December 29, 2007:       
    Following is a summary of the restricted unit award activity under the ICP as of December 29, 2007:

59   

All grants under the ICP are awarded at fair market value on the date of grant. The fair value of stock options is estimated using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model and compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over
the requisite service period. Options granted prior to 2004 generally become exercisable over a four-year period from the grant date and expire ten years after the date of grant. Options granted during and subsequent to fiscal 2004 generally become
exercisable over a three-year period from the grant date and expire seven years after the date of grant. As of December 29, 2007, there were 73.4 million shares available for future grants under the ICP.      SFAS No. 123(R) requires that the benefit of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation cost be reported as a financing cash flow, rather than as an
operating cash flow as required under prior guidance. Excess tax benefits of $97.8 million and $42.6 million were included in financing activities in the accompanying consolidated statement of cash flow during 2007 and 2006, respectively. Cash
received from stock options exercised, which includes the ESPP, totaled $552.4 million and $187.6 million during 2007 and 2006, respectively. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during 2007 was $642.3 million, compared to $117.8 million
and $117.5 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The fair value of options exercised during 2007 was $1.2 billion, compared to $257.1 million and $263.3 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively.         
    The fair value of each stock option is estimated using the Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model based on the following assumptions at the time of grant:       

(1)  
  The dividend yield is based on annual dividends paid and the fair market value of the Company s stock at the period end date.         

(2)  
  The expected volatility is estimated using the Company s historical volatility over a period equal to the expected life of each option grant after adjustments for infrequent
events such as stock splits.         

(3)  
  The risk-free interest rate is selected based on yields from U.S. Treasury zero-coupon issues with a remaining term equal to the expected term of the options being valued.

(4)  
  The expected life represents the number of years the options are expected to be outstanding from grant date based on historical option holder exercise experience.
       As of December 29, 2007, unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested options totaled $126.0 million, which the Company
expects to be recognized over a weighted-average period of 1.8 years. After considering anticipated forfeitures, the Company expects approximately 18.7 million of the unvested options to vest over the requisite service period.
  
        Following is a summary of the Company s stock option
activity as of December 29, 2007:       
       
   60   

11   
   Commitments   Contingencies         Between 1991 and 1997, the
Company sold or spun off a number of subsidiaries, including Bob s Stores, Linens  n Things, Marshalls, Kay-Bee Toys, Wilsons, This End Up and Footstar. In many cases, when a former subsidiary leased a store, the Company provided a
guarantee of the store s lease obligations. When the subsidiaries were disposed of, the Company s guarantees remained in place, although each initial purchaser has indemnified the Company for any lease obligations the Company was required
to satisfy. If any of the purchasers or any of the former subsidiaries were to become insolvent and failed to make the required payments under a store lease, the Company could be required to satisfy these obligations. As of December 29, 2007,
the Company guaranteed approximately 220 such store leases, with the maximum remaining lease term extending through 2022. Assuming that each respective purchaser became insolvent and the Company was required to assume all of these lease obligations,
management estimates that the Company could settle the obligations for approximately $325 to $375 million as of December 29, 2007.      Management
believes the ultimate disposition of any of the guarantees will not have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial condition, results of operations or future cash flows.      In 2006, a number of shareholder derivative lawsuits have been filed in the Tennessee state court and the Tennessee federal court against Caremark and various officers
and directors of Caremark seeking, among other things, a declaration that the directors breached their fiduciary duties, imposition of a constructive trust upon any illegal profits received by the defendants and punitive and other damages. The cases
brought in the Tennessee federal court were consolidated into one action in August 2006, and the consolidated action was voluntarily dismissed without prejudice by the plaintiffs in March 2007. The cases brought in the Tennessee state court were
also consolidated into one action, and the plaintiffs amended their complaint to add CVS and its directors as defendants and to allege class action claims. A stipulation of settlement was entered into by the parties on July 5, 2007, which
provided, among other things, that (i) the plaintiffs will dismiss the case and release the defendants from claims asserted in the action, (ii) a temporary restraining order   
   
 issued by the court in March 2007 will be vacated, (iii) defendants will agree to maintain for at least four years a number of corporate governance
provisions relating to the granting, exercise and disclosure of stock option awards and (iv) the defendants will not oppose plaintiffs  petition for an award of attorneys  fees and expenses not to exceed $7.5 million. As part of the
settlement, the defendants specifically denied any liability or wrongdoing with respect to all claims alleged in the litigation, including claims relating to stock option backdating, and acknowledged that they entered into the settlement solely to
avoid the distraction, burden and expense of the pending litigation. The settlement was orally approved by the court, but it remains subject to final court approval. The settlement is also subject to a pending application for extraordinary appeal
filed by plaintiffs  counsel relating to the court s prior rulings concerning the settlement and the award of attorney s fees and expenses.      Caremark s subsidiary Caremark, Inc. (now known as Caremark, L.L.C.) is a defendant in a  qui tam  lawsuit initially filed by a relator on behalf of various state and federal government agencies in Texas federal court in 1999. The
case was unsealed in May 2005. The case seeks money damages and alleges that Caremark s processing of Medicaid and certain other government claims on behalf of its clients violates applicable federal or state false claims acts and fraud
statutes. The U.S. Department of Justice and the States of Texas, Tennessee, Florida, Arkansas, Louisiana and California intervened in the lawsuit, but Tennessee and Florida withdrew from the lawsuit in August 2006 and May 2007, respectively. A
phased approach to discovery is ongoing. The parties have filed cross motions for partial summary judgment, argued those motions before the court and final rulings are pending.      In December 2007, the Company received a document subpoena from the Office of Inspector General within the United States Department of Health and Human Services requesting certain information relating to the
processing of Medicaid claims and claims of certain other government programs on an adjudication platform of AdvancePCS (now known as CaremarkPCS, L.L.C.). The Company will cooperate with these requests for information and cannot predict the timing,
outcome, or consequence of the review of such information.   
       
   61   

Caremark s subsidiary Caremark Inc. (now known as Caremark, L.L.C.) has been named in a putative class action lawsuit filed in July 2004, in Tennessee federal court by an individual named Robert Moeckel, purportedly on behalf of
the John Morrell Employee Benefits Plan, which is an employee benefit plan sponsored by a former Caremark client. The lawsuit, which seeks unspecified damages and injunctive relief, alleges that Caremark acts as a fiduciary under ERISA and has
breached certain alleged fiduciary duties under ERISA. In November 2007, the court granted Caremark Inc. s motion for partial summary judgment finding that it is not an ERISA fiduciary under the applicable PBM agreements and that the plaintiff
may not sustain claims for breach of fiduciary duty.      In 2004, Caremark received Civil Investigative Demands or similar requests for information relating
to certain PBM business practices of its Caremark Inc. (now known as Caremark, L.L.C.) and AdvancePCS, (now known as CaremarkPCS, L.L.C.) subsidiaries under state consumer protection statutes from 28 states plus the District of Columbia. On
February 14, 2008, Caremark entered into a settlement concluding this investigation. Caremark agreed to pay $12 million in settlement on behalf of AdvancePCS, $10 million in settlement on behalf of Caremark Inc., $16.5 million in state
investigative costs and up to $2.5 million to reimburse certain medical tests. In addition, Caremark entered into a consent order requiring it to maintain certain PBM business practices. Caremark has expressly denied all wrongdoing and entered into
the settlement to avoid the uncertainty and expense of the investigation.      Caremark was named in a putative class action lawsuit filed on October 22,
2003 in Alabama state court by John Lauriello, purportedly on behalf of participants in the 1999 settlement of various securities class action and derivative lawsuits against Caremark and others. Other defendants include insurance companies that
provided coverage to Caremark with respect to the settled lawsuits. The Lauriello lawsuit seeks approximately $3.2 billion in compensatory damages plus other non-specified damages based on allegations that the amount of insurance coverage available
for the settled lawsuits was misrepresented and suppressed. A similar lawsuit was filed on November 5, 2003, by Frank McArthur, also in Alabama state court, naming as defendants Caremark, several insurance companies, attorneys and law firms
involved in the 1999 settlement. This lawsuit was subsequently stayed by the court as a later-filed class action.         
    In 2005, the trial court in the Lauriello case issued an order
allowing the Lauriello case to proceed on behalf of the settlement class in the 1999 securities class action. McArthur then sought to intervene in the Lauriello case and to challenge the adequacy of Lauriello as class representative and his lawyers
as class counsel. The trial court denied McArthur s motion to intervene, but the Alabama Supreme Court subsequently ordered the lower court to vacate its prior order on class certification and allow McArthur to intervene. Caremark and other
defendants filed motions to dismiss the complaint in intervention filed by McArthur. In November 2007, the trial court dismissed the attorneys and law firms named as defendants in the McArthur complaint in intervention and denied the motions to
dismiss that complaint filed by Caremark and the insurance company defendants. In January 2008, Lauriello filed a motion to dismiss McArthur s complaint in intervention, appealed the court s dismissal of the attorney and law firm
defendants and filed a motion to stay proceedings pending his appeal.      Various lawsuits have been filed alleging that Caremark and its subsidiaries
Caremark Inc. (now known as Caremark, L.L.C.) and AdvancePCS (now known as CaremarkPCS, L.L.C.) have violated applicable antitrust laws in establishing and maintaining retail pharmacy networks for client health plans. In August 2003, Bellevue Drug
Co., Robert Schreiber, Inc. d/b/a Burns Pharmacy and Rehn-Huerbinger Drug Co. d/b/a Parkway Drugs #4, together with Pharmacy Freedom Fund and the National Community Pharmacists Association filed a putative class action against AdvancePCS in
Pennsylvania federal court, seeking treble damages and injunctive relief. The claims were initially sent to arbitration based on contract terms between the pharmacies and AdvancePCS.      In October 2003, two independent pharmacies, North Jackson Pharmacy, Inc. and C C, Inc. d/b/a Big C Discount Drugs, Inc. filed a putative class action complaint in Alabama federal court against Caremark, Caremark
Inc. AdvancePCS and two PBM competitors, seeking treble damages and injunctive relief. The case against Caremark and Caremark Inc. was transferred to Illinois federal court, and the AdvancePCS case was sent to arbitration based on contract terms
between the pharmacies and AdvancePCS. The arbitration was then stayed by the parties pending developments in Caremark s court case.   
       
   62   

In August 2006, the Bellevue case and the North Jackson Pharmacy case were transferred to Pennsylvania federal court by the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation for coordinated and consolidated proceedings with other cases before the
panel, including cases against other PBMs. Caremark has appealed a decision which vacated the order compelling arbitration and staying the proceedings in the Bellevue case to the Third Circuit Court of Appeals. Motions for class certification in the
coordinated cases within the multidistrict litigation, including the North Jackson Pharmacy case, remain pending. The consolidated action is now known as the In Re Pharmacy Benefit Managers Antitrust Litigation.      Caremark and its subsidiaries Caremark Inc. (now known as Caremark, L.L.C.) and AdvancePCS (now known as CaremarkPCS, L.L.C.) have been named in a putative class action
lawsuit filed in California state court by an individual named Robert Irwin, purportedly on behalf of California members of non-ERISA health plans and/or all California taxpayers. The lawsuit, which also names other PBMs as defendants, alleges
violations of California s unfair competition laws and challenges alleged business practices of PBMs, including practices relating to pricing, rebates, formulary management, data utilization and accounting and administrative processes.
Discovery in the case is ongoing.      The Rhode Island Attorney General s Office, the Rhode Island Ethics Commission, and the United States
Attorney s Office for the District of Rhode Island have been investigating the business relationships between certain former members of the Rhode Island General Assembly and various Rhode Island companies, including Roger Williams Medical
Center, Blue Cross   Blue Shield of Rhode Island and CVS. In connection with the investigation of these business relationships, a former state senator was criminally charged in 2005 by federal and state authorities and has pled guilty to
those charges, and a former state representative was criminally charged in October 2007 by federal authorities and pled guilty to those charges. In January 2007, two CVS employees on administrative leave from the Company were indicted on federal
charges relating to their involvement in entering into a $12,000 per year consulting agreement with the former state senator eight years ago. The indictment alleges that the two CVS employees concealed the true nature of the Company s
relationship with the former state senator from other Company officials and others. CVS will continue to cooperate fully in this investigation, the timing and outcome of which cannot be predicted with certainty at this time.         
    The Company has been named in a putative class action lawsuit filed in California state court by Gabe Tong, purportedly on behalf of current and former pharmacists working in the Company s California stores. The
lawsuit alleges that CVS failed to provide pharmacists in the purported class with meal and rest periods or to pay overtime as required under California law. In October 2007, the Company reached a conditional agreement, subject to the approval by
the court, to resolve this matter. In addition, the Company is party to other employment litigation arising in the normal course of its business. The Company cannot predict the outcome of any of these employment litigation matters at this time,
however, none of these matters are expected to be material to the company.      The United States Department of Justice and several state attorneys general are
investigating whether any civil or criminal violations resulted from certain practices engaged in by CVS and others in the pharmacy industry with regard to dispensing one of two different dosage forms of a generic drug under circumstances in which
some state Medicaid programs at various times reimbursed one dosage form at a different rate from the other. The Company is in discussions with various governmental agencies involved to resolve this matter on a civil basis and without any admission
or finding of any violation.      The Company is also a party to other litigation arising in the normal course of its business, none of which is expected to be
material to the Company. The Company can give no assurance, however, that our operating results and financial condition will not be materially adversely affected, or that we will not be required to materially change our business practices, based on:
(i) future enactment of new healthcare or other laws or regulations; (ii) the interpretation or application of existing laws or regulations, as they may relate to our business or the pharmacy services industry; (iii) pending or future
federal or state governmental investigations of our business or the pharmacy services industry; (iv) institution of government enforcement actions against us; (v) adverse developments in any pending qui tam lawsuit against us, whether
sealed or unsealed, or in any future qui tam lawsuit that may be filed against us; or (vi) adverse developments in other pending or future legal proceedings against us or affecting the pharmacy services industry.   
       
   63   

The income tax provision consisted of the following
for the respective years:       
    Following is a summary of the significant components of the Company s deferred tax assets and liabilities as
of the respective balance sheet dates:       
    The Company believes it is more likely than not the deferred tax assets included in the above table will be
realized during future periods.         
    During the fourth quarters of 2006 and 2005 an assessment of tax reserves resulted in the Company recording reductions of previously recorded tax reserves through the
income tax provision of $11.0 million and $52.6 million, respectively.      The Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 48,  Accounting for
Uncertainty in Income Taxes-an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109  ( FIN 48 ), at the beginning of fiscal year 2007. As a result of the implementation, the Company reduced its reserves for uncertain income tax positions by
approximately $4.0 million, which was accounted for as an increase to the December 31, 2006 balance of retained earnings. The income tax reserve increased during 2007 primarily due to the Caremark Merger.      The following is a summary of our income tax reserve:       
    The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax of multiple state
and local jurisdictions. Substantially all material income tax matters have been concluded for fiscal years through 1992.      On March 30, 2007, the
Internal Revenue Service (the  IRS ) completed an examination of the consolidated U.S. income tax returns for AdvancePCS and its subsidiaries for the tax years ended March 31, 2002, March 31, 2003 and March 24, 2004,
the date on which Caremark acquired AdvancePCS. In July 2007, the IRS completed an examination of the Company s consolidated U.S. income tax returns for fiscal years 2004 and 2005.      During 2007, the IRS commenced an examination of the consolidated U.S. income tax return of the Company for fiscal year 2007 pursuant to the Compliance Assurance Process ( CAP ) program. The CAP program is a
voluntary program under which taxpayers seek to resolve all or most issues with the IRS prior to the filing of their U.S. income tax returns in lieu of being audited in the traditional manner.   
       
   64   

In addition to the CAP examination, the IRS is examining the Company s consolidated U.S. income tax return for fiscal year 2006 and the consolidated U.S. income tax returns of Caremark for fiscal years 2004 and 2005, which benefit from
net operating loss carry-forwards going back to 1993. The Company and its subsidiaries are also currently under examination by various state and local jurisdictions. As of December 29, 2007, no examination has resulted in any proposed
adjustments that would result in a material change to the Company s results of operations, financial condition, or liquidity.      The Company recognizes
interest accrued related to unrecognized tax benefits and penalties in income tax expense. During the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007, the Company recognized interest of approximately $17.8 million. The Company had approximately $44.3
million accrued for interest and penalties as of December 29, 2007.      There are no material reserves established at December 29, 2007 for income
tax positions for which the ultimate deductibility is highly certain but for which there is uncertainty about the timing of such deductibility. If present, such items would impact deferred tax accounting, not the annual effective income tax rate,
and would accelerate the payment of cash to the taxing authority to an earlier period.      The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized,
would affect the effective income tax rate is approximately $26.9 million, after considering the federal benefit of state income taxes.      We are currently
unable to estimate if there will be any significant changes in the amount of unrecognized tax benefits over the next twelve months. Pursuant to SFAS No. 141,  Business Combinations,  and EITF No. 93-7,  Uncertainties Related
to Income Taxes in a Purchase Business Combination  ( EITF 93-7 ), any income tax adjustments made in the Company s 2008 financial statements that are related to pre-acquisition tax periods will result in modifications to the
assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the applicable business combination.         
 
    The Company currently operates two business
segments: Retail Pharmacy and Pharmacy Services. The operating segments are businesses of the Company for which separate financial information is available and for which operating results are evaluated on a regular basis by executive management in
deciding how to allocate resources and in assessing performance. The Company s business segments offer different products and services and require distinct technology and marketing strategies.      As of December 29, 2007, the Retail Pharmacy Segment included 6,245 retail drugstores, the Company s
online retail website, CVS.com      and its retail healthcare clinics. The retail drugstores are located in 40 states and the District of Columbia and operate under the CVS      or CVS/pharmacy      name. The retail healthcare clinics utilize nationally recognized medical protocols to diagnose and treat minor
health conditions and are staffed by board-certified nurse practitioners and physician assistants. The retail healthcare clinics operate under the MinuteClinic      name and include 462 clinics
located in 25 states, 437 of which are located within the Company s retail drugstores.      The
Pharmacy Services Segment provides a full range of pharmacy benefit management services to employers, managed care providers and other organizations. These services include mail order pharmacy services, specialty pharmacy services, plan design and
administration, formulary management and claims processing, as well as providing insurance and reinsurance services in conjunction with prescription drug benefit plans. The specialty pharmacy business focuses on supporting individuals that require
complex and expensive drug therapies. Currently, the Pharmacy Services segment operates under the Caremark Pharmacy Services     , PharmaCare Management Services      and PharmaCare Pharmacy      names.      As of December 29, 2007,
the Pharmacy Services Segment included 56 retail specialty drugstores, 20 specialty mail order pharmacies and 9 mail service pharmacies located in 26 states and the District of Columbia.      The Company evaluates segment performance based on net revenues, gross profit and operating profit before the effect of certain intersegment activities and charges. The accounting policies of the segments are
substantially the same as those described in Note 1.   
       
   65   

Following is a reconciliation of the Company s business segments to the consolidated financial statements:

(2)  
  Intersegment eliminations relate to intersegment revenues and accounts receivable that occur when a Pharmacy Services Segment customer uses a Retail Pharmacy Segment store to
purchase covered products. When this occurs, both segments record the revenue on a stand-alone basis.           
   66   

14   
   Reconciliation of Earnings Per Common Share         Following is a
reconciliation of basic and diluted earnings per common share for the respective years:       
       
   67   

15   
   Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)          

(1)  
  Net earnings and net earnings per common share for the fourth quarter and fiscal year 2006 include the $24.7 million after-tax effect of adopting SAB No. 108.
          
   68   

Five-Year Financial Summary        

(1)  
  Effective March 22, 2007, pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of November 1, 2006, as amended (the  Merger Agreement ), Caremark Rx, Inc.
( Caremark ) was merged with and into a newly formed subsidiary of CVS Corporation, with the CVS subsidiary, Caremark Rx, L.L.C., continuing as the surviving entity (the  Caremark Merger ). Following the Caremark Merger, the name
of the Company was changed to  CVS Caremark Corporation.  By virtue of the Caremark Merger, each issued and outstanding share of Caremark common stock, par value $0.001 per share, was converted into the right to receive 1.67 shares of CVS
Caremark s common stock, par value $0.01 per share. Cash was paid in lieu of fractional shares.         

(2)  
  In 2006, the Company adopted the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) Staff Accounting Bulletin ( SAB ) No. 108,  Considering the Effects of Prior Year
Misstatements when Qualifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements.  The adoption of this statement resulted in a $40.2 million pre-tax ($24.7 million after-tax) decrease in operating expenses for 2006.     

(3)  
  In 2004, the Company conformed its accounting for operating leases and leasehold improvements to the views expressed by the Office of the Chief Accountant of the Securities and
Exchange Commission to the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants on February 7, 2005. As a result, the Company recorded a non-cash pre-tax adjustment of $65.9 million ($40.5 million after-tax) to operating expenses, which
represents the cumulative effect of the adjustment for a period of approximately 20 years. Since the effect of this non-cash adjustment was not material to 2004, or any previously reported fiscal year, the cumulative effect was recorded in the
fourth quarter of 2004.         

(4)  
  Operating profit includes the pre-tax effect of the charge discussed in Note (2) and Note (3) above.         

(5)  
  Income tax provision includes the effect of the following: (i) in 2006, a $11.0 million reversal of previously recorded tax reserves through the tax provision principally based
on resolving certain state tax matters, (ii) in 2005, a $52.6 million reversal of previously recorded tax reserves through the tax provision principally based on resolving certain state tax matters, and (iii) in 2004, a $60.0 million
reversal of previously recorded tax reserves through the tax provision principally based on finalizing certain tax return years and on a 2004 court decision relevant to the industry.         

(6)  
  Net earnings and net earnings per common share include the after-tax effect of the charges and gains discussed in Notes (2), (3), (4), and (5) above.     
     
   69   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and Shareholders      CVS Caremark Corporation   
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of CVS Caremark Corporation as of December 29, 2007, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, shareholders  equity and cash flows for the fifty-two week period ended December 29, 2007. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.      We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company
Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the 2007 consolidated financial statements referred
to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of CVS Caremark Corporation at December 29, 2007, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for the fifty-two week period ended
December 29, 2007, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.        As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial
statements, effective December 31, 2006, CVS Caremark Corporation adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Interpretation No. 48 , Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes- an interpretation of FASB Statement No.109.  
     We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), CVS Caremark
Corporation s internal control over financial reporting as of December 29, 2007, based on criteria established in  Internal Control-Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
and our report dated February 25, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/ Ernst   Young LLP   
       
   70   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and Shareholders      CVS Caremark Corporation:
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of CVS Caremark Corporation and subsidiaries (formerly CVS Corporation) as of
December 30, 2006 and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareholders  equity and cash flows for the fifty-two week periods ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005. These consolidated financial statements
are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of CVS Caremark Corporation and
subsidiaries as of December 30, 2006 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the fifty-two week periods ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles.      As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, CVS Caremark Corporation adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),  Share-Based Payment,  effective January 1, 2006.       
       
   71   

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 6
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Subsidiaries of the Registrant 

Exhibit 21        SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT       As of December 29, 2007, CVS Caremark Corporation had the following significant
subsidiaries:      CVS Pharmacy, Inc. (a Rhode Island corporation)   (1)         Revco Discount Drug Centers,
Inc. (a Michigan corporation)   (2)         Hook-SupeRx, L.L.C.
(a Delaware limited liability company)      Holiday CVS, L.L.C. (a Florida limited liability company)      Garfield Beach CVS, L.L.C. (a California limited liability company)      CVS
Albany, L.L.C. (a New York limited liability company)      Massachusetts CVS Pharmacy, L.L.C. (a Massachusetts limited liability company)      Caremark Rx, L.L.C. (a Delaware limited liability company)   (3)         Caremark, L.L.C. (a California limited liability company)      CaremarkPCS Health, L.P. (a Delaware limited partnership)      SilverScript,
L.L.C. (a Delaware limited liability company)      SilverScript Insurance Company (a Tennessee corporation)      PharmaCare Management Services, L.L.C. (a Delaware limited liability company)       

(1)  
  CVS Pharmacy, Inc. is the immediate parent of approximately 1,800 entities that operate drugstores, all of which drugstores are in the United States and its territories.

(2)  
  Revco Discount Drug Centers, Inc. (a Michigan corporation) is the immediate parent corporation of two corporations and the indirect parent of one corporation that operate
drugstores, all of which drugstores are in the United States and its territories.         

(3)  
  Caremark Rx, L.L.C., the parent of the Registrant s pharmacy services subsidiaries, is the immediate or indirect parent of several mail order, specialty mail and retail
specialty pharmacy subsidiaries, all of which operate in the United States and its territories.     

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 7
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Consent of Ernst   Young LLP 

Exhibit 23.1        Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       We consent to the incorporation by reference in the
Registration Statements (Nos. 333-49407, 33-40251, 333-34927, 333-28043, 33-17181, 2-97913, 2-77397, 2-53766, 333-91253, 333-63664, 333-141481 and 333-139470 on Form S-8, 333-134174 and 333-143110 on Form S-3 and 333-119023 and 333-139470 on Form
S-4) of CVS Caremark Corporation and in the related Prospectuses of our reports dated February 25, 2008, with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of CVS Caremark Corporation as of December 29, 2007 and for the
fifty-two week period then ended and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of CVS Caremark Corporation as of December 29, 2007, incorporated by reference or included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) and to the
reference to our firm under the heading  Selected Financial Data , included therein, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.      /s/ Ernst   Young LLP      Boston, Massachusetts      February 25, 2008   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-23.2>
 8
 dex232.htm
 CONSENT OF KPMG LLP

Consent of KPMG LLP 

Exhibit 23.2        Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm       The Board of Directors and Shareholders      CVS Caremark Corporation:      We consent to the incorporation by reference in
the Registration Statements Numbers 333-49407, 33-40251, 333-34927, 333-28043, 33-17181, 2-97913, 2-77397, 2-53766, 333-91253, 333-63664, 333-141481 and 333-139470 on Form S-8, 333-134174 and 333-143110 on Form S-3 and 333-119023 and 333-139470 on
Form S-4 of CVS Caremark Corporation of our reports dated February 27, 2007, with respect to the consolidated balance sheet of CVS Caremark Corporation and subsidiaries as of December 30, 2006 and the related consolidated statements of
operations, shareholders  equity and cash flows for the fifty-two week periods ended December 30, 2006 and December 31, 2005 and the related financial statement schedule which reports appear in the December 29, 2007 Annual Report
on Form 10-K of CVS Caremark Corporation, and to the reference to our firm under the heading  Selected Financial Data  in the December 29, 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K of CVS Caremark Corporation.      Our reports include an explanatory paragraph regarding the Company s adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123 (revised 2004),
 Share Based Payment , effective January 1, 2006.      /s/ KPMG LLP      KPMG LLP      Providence, Rhode Island      February 25, 2008   

</EX-23.2>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 dex311.htm
 CERTIFICATION BY THE CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification by the CEO pursuant to Section 302 

Exhibit 31.1        Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       I, Thomas M. Ryan, Chairman of the
Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of CVS Caremark Corporation, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of CVS Caremark Corporation;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors:         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 27, 2008  

By:  
     
  /s/ Thomas M. Ryan   

Thomas M. Ryan   

Chairman of the Board, President and     Chief Executive
Officer    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 dex312.htm
 CERTIFICATION BY THE CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 302

Certification by the CFO pursuant to Section 302 

Exhibit 31.2        Certification Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002       I, David B. Rickard, Executive Vice
President, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Administrative Officer of CVS Caremark Corporation, certify that:       

1.  
  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of CVS Caremark Corporation;         

2.  
  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;         

3.  
  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;         

4.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e)
and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:         

(a)  
  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating
to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;         

(b)  
  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;         

(c)  
  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure
controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and         

(d)  
  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter that has
materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and         

5.  
  The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s
auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors:         

(a)  
  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the
registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and         

(b)  
  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.

Date: February 27, 2008  

By:  
     
  /s/ David B. Rickard   

David B. Rickard   

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and     Chief Administrative Officer    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 11
 dex321.htm
 CERTIFICATION BY THE CEO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification by the CEO pursuant to Section 906 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       The certification set forth below is being submitted in connection with the Annual Report of CVS Caremark
Corporation (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 29, 2007 (the  Report ), for the purpose of complying with Rule 13(a)-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange
Act ) and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code.      I, Thomas M. Ryan, Chairman of the Board, President and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company, certify that, to the best of my knowledge:       

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act; and         

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.         

February 27, 2008  

/s/ Thomas M. Ryan   

Thomas M. Ryan     Chairman of the Board, President and
     Chief Executive Officer    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 12
 dex322.htm
 CERTIFICATION BY THE CFO PURSUANT TO SECTION 906

Certification by the CFO pursuant to Section 906 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,        AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO        SECTION 906
OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002       The certification set forth below is being submitted in connection with the Annual Report of CVS Caremark
Corporation (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the period ended December 29, 2007 (the  Report ), for the purpose of complying with Rule 13(a)-14(b) or Rule 15d-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange
Act ) and Section 1350 of Chapter 63 of Title 18 of the United States Code.      I, David B. Rickard, Executive Vice President, Chief Financial
Officer and Chief Administrative Officer of the Company, certify that, to the best of my knowledge:       

(1)  
  The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act; and         

(2)  
  The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company.         

February 27, 2008  

/s/ David B. Rickard   

David B. Rickard   

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and     Chief Administrative Officer    

</EX-32.2>

