<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20180215_10-K_edgar_data_21665_0000021665-18-000003_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>19540089</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>432723</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>1429105</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>7028976</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>8075791</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2202427</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>99</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000021665-18-000003.hdr.sgml : 20180215
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20180215143307
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000021665-18-000003
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		111
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20171231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20180215
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20180215

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			COLGATE PALMOLIVE CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000021665
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PERFUMES, COSMETICS & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS [2844]
		IRS NUMBER:				131815595
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-00644
		FILM NUMBER:		18617293

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		300 PARK AVE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10022
		BUSINESS PHONE:		2123102000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		300 PARK AVE
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10022

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000021665-18-000003.txt : 20180215

10-K
 1
 cl-12312017x10k.htm
 COLGATE-PALMOLIVE 10-K 12-31-2017

Document 

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 
  (Mark One) 

For the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2017    
  or 

For the transition period from                                      to                              . 
  Commission File Number 1-644 

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)                 DELAWARE 
    13-1815595 
      (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) 
    (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.) 
      300 Park Avenue, New York, New York 
    10022 
      (Address of principal executive offices) 
    (Zip Code) 
   
 Registrant s telephone number, including area code 212-310-2000 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:                 Title of each class 
    Name of each exchange on which registered 
      Common Stock, $1.00 par value 
    New York Stock Exchange 
      Floating Rate Notes due 2019 
    New York Stock Exchange 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  
  Yes   x   No     
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  
  Yes        No   x 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes   x   No     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes   x   No     
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, a smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company.  See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer ,  smaller reporting company  and  emerging growth company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.                 Large accelerated filer   x 
    Accelerated filer     
      Non-accelerated filer       (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 
    Smaller reporting company     
      Emerging growth company     

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.   
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).  
  Yes       No   x 
  The aggregate market value of Colgate-Palmolive Company Common Stock held by non-affiliates as of June 30, 2017 (the last business day of its most recently completed second quarter) was approximately $65.1 billion. 
  There were   875,326,736   shares of Colgate-Palmolive Company Common Stock outstanding as of January 31, 2018. 
                 DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE: 
      Documents 
    Form 10-K Reference 
      Portions of Proxy Statement for the 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
    Part III, Items 10 through 14 

Colgate-Palmolive Company 
  Table of Contents 
    
                   Part I 
       
    Page 

Item 1. 
    Business 
     1 
      Item 1A.   
    Risk Factors 
     4 
      Item 1B. 
    Unresolved Staff Comments 
     12 
      Item 2. 
    Properties 
     13 
      Item 3. 
    Legal Proceedings 
     14 
      Item 4. 
    Mine Safety Disclosures 
     16 

Part II 

Item 5. 
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
     17 
      Item 6. 
    Selected Financial Data 
     17 
      Item 7. 
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
     18 
      Item 7A. 
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
     54 
      Item 8. 
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
     55 
      Item 9. 
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
     55 
      Item 9A. 
    Controls and Procedures 
     55 
      Item 9B. 
    Other Information 
     55 

Part III 

Item 10. 
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
     56 
      Item 11. 
    Executive Compensation 
     56 
      Item 12. 
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
     57 
      Item 13. 
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions and Director Independence 
     57 
      Item 14. 
    Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
     57 

Part IV 

Item 15. 
    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
     58 
      Item 16. 
    Form 10-K Summary 
     62 

Signatures 
     63 

PART I 
    
  ITEM 1.    BUSINESS 
    
  (a) General Development of the Business 
    
  Colgate-Palmolive Company (together with its subsidiaries, the  Company  or  Colgate ) is a leading consumer products company whose products are marketed in over   200   countries and territories throughout the world. Colgate was founded in 1806 and incorporated under the laws of the State of Delaware in 1923. 
    
  For recent business developments and other information, refer to the information set forth under the captions  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Executive Overview,     Outlook,    Results of Operations,    Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges  and    Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Part II, Item 7 of this report. 
    
  (b) Financial Information about Segments 
    
  Worldwide Net sales and Operating profit by business segment and geographic region during the last three years appear under the caption  Results of Operations  in Part II, Item 7 of this report and in Note 15, Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  (c) Narrative Description of the Business 
    
  The Company operates in two product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. Colgate is a global leader in Oral Care with the leading toothpaste and manual toothbrush brands throughout many parts of the world according to market share data. Colgate s Oral Care products include Colgate Total, Colgate Maximum Cavity Protection plus Sugar Acid Neutralizer, Colgate Triple Action, Darlie Double Action, Colgate Max Fresh, Colgate Optic White and Colgate Whitening toothpastes, Colgate 360 , Colgate Extra Clean and Colgate Slim Soft manual toothbrushes and Colgate Plax, meridol and Colgate Total mouthwashes. Colgate s Oral Care business also includes pharmaceutical products for dentists and other oral health professionals. 
    
  Colgate is a leader in many product categories of the Personal Care market with global leadership in liquid hand soap, which it sells under the Softsoap, Palmolive and Protex brands. Colgate s Personal Care products also include Palmolive, Sanex and Softsoap brand shower gels, Palmolive, Protex and Irish Spring bar soaps and Speed Stick, Lady Speed Stick and Sanex deodorants and antiperspirants. Colgate is the market leader in liquid hand soap in the U.S. with its line of Softsoap brand products according to market share data. Colgate s Personal Care business outside the U.S. also includes Palmolive and Caprice shampoos and conditioners. 
    
  Colgate manufactures and markets a wide array of products for the Home Care market, including Palmolive and Ajax dishwashing liquids and Fabuloso, Murphy s Oil Soap and Ajax household cleaners. Colgate is a market leader in fabric conditioners with leading brands, including Suavitel in Latin America, Soupline in Europe and Cuddly in the South Pacific according to market share data. 
    
  Sales of Oral, Personal and Home Care products accounted for   48%  ,   19%   and   18%  , respectively, of the Company s total worldwide Net sales in   2017  . Geographically, Oral Care is a significant part of the Company s business in Asia Pacific,     comprising approximately   82%   of Net sales in that region for   2017  . 
    
  Colgate, through its Hill s Pet Nutrition segment ( Hill s  or  Pet Nutrition ), is a world leader in specialty pet nutrition products for dogs and cats with products marketed in over 80 countries worldwide. Hill s markets pet foods primarily under three brands: Hill s Science Diet, a range of products for everyday nutritional needs; Hill s Prescription Diet, a range of therapeutic products to help nutritionally manage disease conditions in dogs and cats; and Hill     s Ideal Balance, a range of products with natural ingredients. Sales of Pet Nutrition products accounted for   15%   of the Company s total worldwide Net sales in   2017  . 
  
    1 

For more information regarding the Company s worldwide Net sales by product category, refer to Note 1, Nature of Operations and Note 15, Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
    
  For additional information regarding market share data, see      Market Share Information      in Part II, Item 7 of this report. 
    
  Research and Development 
    
  Strong research and development capabilities and alliances enable Colgate to support its many brands with technologically sophisticated products to meet consumers  oral, personal and home care and pet nutrition needs. The Company s spending related to research and development activities was   $285 million   in   2017  ,   $289 million   in   2016   and   $274 million   in   2015  . 
    
  Distribution; Raw Materials; Competition; Trademarks and Patents 
    
  The Company s products are marketed by a direct sales force at individual operating subsidiaries or business units, and by distributors or brokers. The Oral, Personal and Home Care products are sold to a variety of retail and wholesale customers and distributors. Pet Nutrition products are sold by authorized pet supply retailers and veterinarians. Many of the Company s products are also sold online through various e-commerce platforms and retailers. The Company s sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates represent approximately   11%   of the Company s Net sales in 2017. No other customer represents more than 10% of the Company s Net sales. 
    
  The majority of raw and packaging materials used in the Company s products are purchased from other companies and are available from several sources. No single raw or packaging material represents, and no single supplier provides, a significant portion of the Company s total material requirements. For certain materials, however, new suppliers may have to be qualified under industry, governmental and Colgate standards, which can require additional investment and take some period of time. Raw and packaging material commodities such as   resins, pulp, essential oils, tropical oils, tallow, poultry, corn and soybeans   are subject to market price variations. 
    
  The Company s products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace which has experienced increased trade concentration and the growing presence of e-commerce retailers, large-format retailers and discounters. Products similar to those produced and sold by the Company are available from multinational and local competitors in the U.S. and overseas. Certain of the Company s competitors are larger and have greater resources than the Company. In certain geographies, particularly in the emerging markets, the Company also faces strong local competitors, who may be more agile and have better local consumer insights than the Company. In addition, private label brands sold by retail trade chains are a source of competition for certain of the Company s product lines. Product quality, innovation, brand recognition, marketing capability and acceptance of new products largely determine success in the Company s operating segments. 
    
  The Company considers trademarks to be of material importance to its business. The Company follows a practice of seeking trademark protection in the U.S. and throughout the world where the Company s products are sold. Principal global and regional trademarks include Colgate, Palmolive, Speed Stick, Lady Speed Stick, Softsoap, Irish Spring, Protex, Sorriso, Kolynos, elmex, Tom s of Maine, Sanex, Ajax, Axion, Fabuloso, Soupline and Suavitel, as well as Hill s Science Diet, Hill s Prescription Diet and Hill     s Ideal Balance. The Company s rights in these trademarks endure for as long as they are used and/or registered. Although the Company actively develops and maintains a portfolio of patents, no single patent is considered significant to the business as a whole. 
    
  Environmental Matters 
    
  The Company has programs that are designed to ensure that its operations and facilities meet or exceed standards established by applicable environmental rules and regulations. Capital expenditures for environmental control facilities totaled approximately $54 million for   2017  . For future years, expenditures are currently expected to be of a similar magnitude. For additional information regarding environmental matters refer to Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies, to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
    2 

Employees 
    
  As of   December 31, 2017  , the Company employed approximately   35,900   employees. 
    
  Executive Officers of the Registrant 
    
  The following is a list of executive officers as of February 15, 2018:   

Each of the executive officers listed above has served the registrant or its subsidiaries in various executive capacities for the past five years with the exception of Jennifer M. Daniels, who joined the Company in 2014 as Chief Legal Officer and Secretary. Prior to joining the Company, Ms. Daniels was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of NCR Corporation, which she joined in 2010.  
    
  Under the Company s By-Laws, the officers of the corporation hold office until their respective successors are chosen and qualified or until they have resigned, retired or been removed by the affirmative vote of a majority of the Board of Directors of the Company (the      Board     ). There are no family relationships between any of the executive officers, and there is no arrangement or understanding between any executive officer and any other person pursuant to which the executive officer was elected. 
    
  (d) Financial Information about Geographic Areas 
    
  For financial data by geographic region, refer to the information set forth under the caption  Results of Operations  in Part II, Item 7, of this report and in Note 15, Segment Information to the Consolidated Financial Statements. For a discussion of risks associated with our international operations, see Item 1A  Risk Factors.  

3 

(e) Available Information 
    
  The Company s website address is   www.colgatepalmolive.com  . The information contained on the Company s website is not included as a part of, or incorporated by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The Company makes available, free of charge, on its website its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, its interactive data files posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T, its Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to such reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the      Exchange Act     ) as soon as reasonably practicable after the Company has electronically filed such material with, or furnished it to, the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (the      SEC     ). Also available on the Company s website are the Company s Code of Conduct and Board Guidelines on Significant Corporate Governance Issues, the charters of the Committees of the Board, Form SD and the related Conflict Minerals Disclosure and Report, reports under Section 16 of the Exchange Act of transactions in Company stock by directors and officers and its proxy statements. 

ITEM 1A.    RISK FACTORS 
    
  In addition to the risks described elsewhere in this report, set forth below is a summary of the material risks to an investment in our securities. These risks are not the only ones we face. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also have an adverse effect on us. If any of these risks actually occur, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be materially and adversely impacted, which might cause the value of our securities to decline. 
    
  We face risks associated with significant international operations, including exposure to foreign currency fluctuations. 
    
  We operate on a global basis serving consumers in more than 200 countries and territories with approximately   75%   of our Net sales originating in markets outside the U.S. While geographic diversity helps to reduce our exposure to risks in any one country or part of the world, it also means that we are subject to the full range of risks associated with significant international operations, including, but not limited to: 

changes in exchange rates for foreign currencies, which may reduce the U.S. dollar value of revenues, profits and cash flows from non-U.S. markets or increase our supply costs, as measured in U.S. dollars, in those markets; 
                
    exchange controls and other limits on our ability to import or export raw materials or finished product or to repatriate earnings from overseas; 
                
    political or economic instability, social or labor unrest or changing macroeconomic conditions in our markets, including as a result of volatile commodity prices, including the price of oil; 
                
    lack of well-established or reliable legal systems in certain countries where we operate; 
                
    foreign ownership restrictions and the potential for nationalization or expropriation of property or other resources; and 
                
    other foreign or domestic legal and regulatory requirements, including those resulting in potentially adverse tax consequences or the imposition of onerous trade restrictions and/or tariffs, price controls, labor laws, travel or immigration restrictions, profit controls or other government controls. 
       
  These risks could have a significant impact on our ability to sell our products on a competitive basis and may adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 
    
  In an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate movements, we engage in a combination of selling price increases, where permitted, sourcing strategies, cost-containment measures and selective hedging of foreign currency transactions. However, the impact of these measures may not fully offset any negative impact of foreign currency rate movements on our business and results of operations. 

4 

Significant competition in our industry could adversely affect our business. 
    
  We face vigorous competition worldwide, including from strong local competitors and from other large, multinational companies, some of which may have greater resources than we do. We face this competition in several aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, the pricing of products, promotional activities, new product introductions and expansion into new geographies. Some of our competitors may spend more aggressively on advertising and promotional activities than we do, introduce competing products more quickly and/or respond more effectively to changing business and economic conditions. Such competition also extends to administrative and legal challenges of product claims and advertising. Our ability to compete also depends on the strength of our brands and on our ability to enforce and defend our intellectual property, including patent, trademark, copyright, trade secret and trade dress rights against infringement and legal challenges by competitors. 
    
  We may be unable to anticipate the timing and scale of such initiatives or challenges by competitors or to successfully respond to them, which could harm our business. In addition, the cost of responding to such initiatives and challenges, including management time, out-of-pocket expenses and price reductions, may affect our performance in the relevant period. A failure to compete effectively could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 
    
  Our business is subject to legal and regulatory risks in the U.S. and abroad. 
    
  Our business is subject to extensive legal and regulatory requirements in the U.S. and abroad. Such legal and regulatory requirements apply to most aspects of our products, including their development, ingredients, manufacture, packaging, labeling, storage, transportation, distribution, export, import, advertising and sale. U.S. federal authorities, including the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (the  FDA ), the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Product Safety Commission and the Environmental Protection Agency, regulate different aspects of our business, along with parallel authorities at the state and local levels and comparable authorities overseas. Also, our selling practices are regulated by competition law authorities in the U.S. and abroad. 
    
  New or more stringent legal or regulatory requirements, or more restrictive interpretations of existing requirements, could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For example, from time to time, various regulatory authorities in Europe, the U.S. and other countries review the use of various ingredients in consumer products. Triclosan, an ingredient used by us in Colgate Total toothpaste, is an example of an ingredient that has undergone reviews by various regulatory authorities worldwide, both by itself and in the context of its use in specific products or types of products. In the U.S., Colgate Total toothpaste is subject to the FDA s rigorous New Drug Application ( NDA ) process for safety and efficacy. Effective September 2017, the FDA restricted the use of 19 active ingredients, including triclosan and triclocarban, in antibacterial consumer soaps in the U.S. Our consumer soaps do not contain triclosan or triclocarbon. Some states and municipalities in the U.S. have proposed, and Minnesota has passed, legislation banning the sale of certain consumer products containing triclosan. The Minnesota legislation does not cover Colgate Total toothpaste. In November 2016, the Canadian government finalized its review of the potential human and environmental risks of triclosan, concluding that triclosan does not enter the environment in quantities or conditions that pose a danger in Canada to human life or health, and that triclosan is neither bioaccumulative nor persistent, but that triclosan could be entering the environment at levels that could potentially cause harm to some aquatic organisms. The Canadian government is now working with stakeholders to ensure triclosan remains under a level it has determined to be safe, and we will participate in this process. Triclosan is also currently being evaluated under the European Union s Regulation for the Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction of Chemicals, which evaluation process is expected to take several years to complete. 
    
  A decision by a regulatory or governmental authority that triclosan, or any other of our ingredients, should not be used in certain consumer products or should otherwise be newly regulated, could adversely impact our business, as could negative reactions by our consumers, trade customers or non-governmental organizations to our use of such ingredients. Additionally, an inability to develop new or reformulated products containing alternative ingredients or to obtain regulatory approval of such products on a timely basis could likewise adversely affect our business. 

5 

Because of our extensive international operations, we could be adversely affected by violations of the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the  FCPA ) and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws. The FCPA and similar worldwide anti-bribery laws generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other third parties for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business. While our policies mandate compliance with these anti-bribery laws, we cannot provide assurance that our internal control policies and procedures will always protect us from reckless or criminal acts committed by our employees, joint-venture partners or agents. Violations of these laws, or allegations of such violations, could disrupt our business and adversely affect our reputation and our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 
    
  While it is our policy and practice to comply with all legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our business, a finding that we are in violation of, or out of compliance with, applicable laws or regulations could subject us to civil remedies, including fines, damages, injunctions or product recalls, or criminal sanctions, any of which could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Even if a claim is unsuccessful, is without merit or is not fully pursued, the negative publicity surrounding such assertions regarding our products, processes or business practices could adversely affect our reputation and brand image. For information regarding our legal and regulatory matters, see Item 3  Legal Proceedings  and   Note 13  , Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  Increasing dependence on key retailers in developed markets, changes in the policies of our retail trade customers, the emergence of new sales channels and the growing presence of e-commerce retailers may adversely affect our business. 
    
  Our products are sold in a highly competitive global marketplace which has experienced increased trade concentration and the growing presence of large-format retailers and discounters. With the growing trend toward retail trade consolidation, we are increasingly dependent on key retailers, and some of these retailers, including large-format retailers, may have greater bargaining strength than we do. They may use this leverage to demand higher trade discounts, allowances or slotting fees, which could lead to reduced sales or profitability. The loss of a key customer or a significant reduction in sales to a key customer could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For additional information regarding our customers, see  Distribution; Raw Materials; Competition; Trademarks and Patents  in Item 1  Business.  
    
  We also have been and may continue to be negatively affected by changes in the policies or practices of our retail trade customers, such as inventory de-stocking, limitations on access to shelf space, delisting of our products, environmental or sustainability initiatives and other conditions. For example, a determination by a key retailer that any of our ingredients should not be used in certain consumer products could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. In addition, private label products sold by retail trade chains, which are typically sold at lower prices than branded products, are a source of competition for certain of our product lines. The emergence of new sales channels for our products may affect, and the growing presence of e-commerce retailers have affected and may continue to affect, consumer preferences and market dynamics and could also adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

6 

The growth of our business depends on the successful identification, development and launch of innovative new products. 
    
  Our growth depends on the continued success of existing products, as well as the successful launch of innovative new products and line extensions. Our ability to launch new products and line extensions and to sustain existing products is affected by whether we can successfully: 

identify, develop and fund technological innovations; 
                
    obtain and maintain necessary intellectual property protection and avoid infringing intellectual property rights of others; 
                
    obtain approvals and registrations of regulated products, including from the FDA and other regulatory bodies in the U.S. and abroad; and 
                
    anticipate and respond to consumer needs and preferences. 
       
  The identification, development and introduction of innovative new products and line extensions involve considerable costs, and any new product or line extension may not generate sufficient customer and consumer interest and sales to become a profitable product or to cover the costs of its development and promotion. Our ability to achieve a successful launch of a new product or line extension could also be adversely affected by preemptive actions taken by competitors in response to the launch, such as increased promotional activities and advertising. 
    
  The failure to develop and launch successful new products could hinder the growth of our business and any delay in the development or launch of a new product could result in us not being the first to market, which could compromise our competitive position and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 
    
  If, in the course of identifying or developing new products, we are found to have infringed the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or other intellectual property rights of others, directly or indirectly, through the use of third-party ideas or technologies, such a finding could adversely affect our ability to develop innovative new products and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. Even if we are not found to infringe a third party s intellectual property rights, claims of infringement could adversely affect us, including by increasing costs and by delaying the launch of new products.  
    
  We may not realize the benefits that we expect from our Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
    
  Our restructuring program, which we refer to as the  Global Growth and Efficiency Program,  is ongoing.  The Global Growth and Efficiency Program s initiatives are expected to help us ensure sustained solid worldwide growth in unit volume, organic sales, operating profit and earnings per share and enhance our global leadership positions in our core businesses. While implementation of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program is well underway and many of the initiatives under the program have been successfully implemented or are nearing completion, the successful implementation of the remainder of the program presents significant organizational challenges and, in some cases, may require successful negotiations with third parties. As a result, we may not be able to realize all of the remaining anticipated benefits from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. Events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing all of the remaining anticipated benefits or our not realizing such benefits on our expected timetable. In addition, changes in foreign exchange rates or in tax, labor or immigration laws may result in our not achieving the remaining anticipated cost savings as measured in U.S. dollars. If we are unable to realize the remaining anticipated savings of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, our ability to fund other initiatives and enhance profitability may be adversely affected. Any failure to implement the Global Growth and Efficiency Program in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For additional information regarding the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, refer to Part II, Item 7  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Significant Items Impacting Comparability  and    Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges.  

7 

There is no guarantee that our ongoing efforts to reduce costs will be successful. 
    
  One way that we generate funds needed to support the growth of our business is through our continuous, Company-wide initiatives to lower costs and increase effective asset utilization, which we refer to as our funding-the-growth initiatives. These initiatives are designed to reduce costs associated with direct materials, indirect expenses, distribution and logistics, and advertising and promotional materials, among other things. The achievement of our funding-the-growth goals depends on our ability to successfully identify and realize additional savings opportunities. Events and circumstances, such as financial or strategic difficulties, delays and unexpected costs may occur that could result in our not realizing any or all of the anticipated benefits or our not realizing the anticipated benefits on our expected timetable. If we are unable to realize the anticipated savings of our funding-the-growth initiatives, our ability to fund other initiatives and achieve our profitability goals may be adversely affected. Any failure to implement our funding-the-growth initiatives in accordance with our expectations could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. For additional information regarding our funding-the-growth initiatives, refer to Part II, Item 7  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Executive Overview.  
    
  Damage to our reputation could have an adverse effect on our business. 
    
  Maintaining our strong reputation with consumers and our trade partners globally is critical to selling our branded products. Accordingly, we devote significant time and resources to programs designed to protect and preserve our reputation, such as our Ethics and Compliance, Sustainability, Brand Protection and Product Safety, Regulatory and Quality initiatives. Adverse publicity about us, our brands, our supply chain or our ingredients regarding health concerns, legal or regulatory proceedings, environmental impacts (including packaging, energy and water use and waste management) or other sustainability or policy issues, whether or not deserved, could jeopardize our reputation. In addition, widespread use of digital and social media by consumers has greatly increased the accessibility of information and the speed of its dissemination. Negative publicity, posts or comments on social media about us, our brands or our products, whether true or untrue, could damage our brands and our reputation. The success of our brands could also suffer if our marketing initiatives do not have the desired impact on a brand s image or its ability to attract consumers.   
    
  Additionally, due to the scale and scope of our business, we must rely on relationships with third parties, including our suppliers, distributors, contractors, joint venture partners and other external business partners, for certain functions. While we have policies and procedures for managing these relationships, they inherently involve a lesser degree of control over business operations, governance and compliance, thereby potentially increasing our reputational and legal risk. 
    
  In addition, third parties sell counterfeit versions of our products, which are inferior or may pose safety risks. As a result, consumers of our brands could confuse our products with these counterfeit products, which could cause them to refrain from purchasing our brands in the future and in turn could impair our brand equity and adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 
    
  Damage to our reputation or loss of consumer confidence in our products for these or any other reasons could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, as well as require resources to rebuild our reputation. 
    
  Volatility in material and other costs could adversely impact our profitability. 
    
  Raw and packaging material commodities such as   resins, pulp, essential oils, tropical oils, tallow, poultry, corn and soybeans   are subject to wide price variations. Increases in the costs and availability of these commodities and the costs of energy, transportation and other necessary services have affected and may continue to adversely affect our profit margins if we are unable to pass along such higher costs in the form of price increases or otherwise achieve cost efficiencies, such as in manufacturing and distribution. As a result, fluctuations in such prices and costs could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. See  Disruption in our global supply chain or key office facilities could adversely impact our business  below for additional information.  

8 

Legal claims and proceedings could adversely impact our business. 
    
  As a global company serving consumers in more than 200 countries and territories, we may be subject to a wide variety of legal claims and proceedings, including disputes relating to intellectual property, contracts, product liability, marketing, advertising, foreign exchange controls, antitrust and trade regulation, as well as labor and employment, pension, privacy, environmental and tax matters and consumer class actions. Regardless of their merit, these claims can require significant time and expense to investigate and defend. Since litigation is inherently uncertain, there is no guarantee that we will be successful in defending ourselves against such claims or proceedings, or that our assessment of the materiality of these matters, including any reserves taken in connection therewith, will be consistent with the ultimate outcome of such matters. In addition, if one of our products, or a raw material contained in our products, is perceived or found to be defective or unsafe, we may need to recall some of our products. Whether or not a legal claim or proceeding is successful, or a recall is required, such assertions could have an adverse effect on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition, and the negative publicity surrounding them could harm our reputation and brand image. See Item 3  Legal Proceedings  and Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information on certain of our legal claims and proceedings. 
    
  Disruption in our global supply chain or key office facilities could adversely impact our business. 
    
  We are engaged in manufacturing and sourcing of products and materials on a global scale. Our operations and those of our suppliers could be disrupted by a number of factors, including, but not limited to: 

environmental events; 
                
    strikes and other labor disputes; 
                
    disruptions in logistics; 
                
    loss or impairment of key manufacturing sites;  
                
    loss of key suppliers; 
                
    supplier capacity constraints; 
                
    raw material and product quality or safety issues; 
                
    industrial accidents or other occupational health and safety issues; 
                
    the impact on our suppliers of tighter credit or capital markets; and  
                
    natural disasters, including climatic events and earthquakes, acts of war or terrorism and other external factors over which we have no control. 
       
  In addition, we purchase certain key raw and packaging materials from single-source suppliers or a limited number of suppliers and new suppliers may have to be qualified under industry, governmental and Colgate standards, which can require additional investment and take a significant period of time. 
    
  While we believe that the supplies of raw materials needed to manufacture our products are adequate and have business continuity and contingency plans in place for key manufacturing sites and the supply of raw and packaging materials, significant disruption of manufacturing or sourcing of products or materials for any reason, including any of the above reasons, could interrupt product supply and, if not remedied, have an adverse impact on our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 
    
  In addition, as a result of our clustering of single-country subsidiaries into regional commercial hubs and our implementation of a global shared service organizational model, certain of our functions, such as marketing, finance and accounting, customer service and logistics, and human resources, have become more concentrated in key office facilities. A significant disruption to any of our key office facilities for any reason, including natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, could adversely affect our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 

9 

A cyber-security incident, data breach or a failure of a key information technology system could adversely impact our business or reputation. 
    
  We rely extensively on information technology systems ( IT Systems ), including some which are managed, hosted, provided and/or used by third parties and their vendors, in order to conduct our business. Our uses of these systems include, but are not limited to: 

communicating within our company and with other parties, including our customers and consumers; 
                
    ordering and managing materials from suppliers; 
                
    converting materials to finished products; 
                
    receiving and processing orders from and shipping products to our customers; 
                
    marketing products to consumers; 
                
    collecting and storing customer, consumer, employee, investor and other stakeholder information and personal data; 
                
    processing transactions, including but not limited to employee payroll, employee and retiree benefits and payments to customers and vendors; 
                
    hosting, processing and sharing confidential and proprietary research, business plans and financial information; 
                
    complying with legal, regulatory and tax requirements; 
                
    providing data security; and  
                
    handling other processes involved in managing our business. 
       
  Although we have a broad array of information security measures in place, our IT Systems, including those of third-party service providers with whom we have contracted, have been, and will likely continue to be, subject to computer viruses or other malicious codes, unauthorized access attempts, phishing and other cyber-attacks. Cyber-attacks and other cyber incidents are occurring more frequently, are constantly evolving in nature, are becoming more sophisticated and are being made by groups and individuals with a wide range of expertise and motives. Such cyber-attacks and cyber incidents can take many forms, including cyber extortion, social engineering, password theft or introduction of viruses or malware, such as ransomware through phishing emails. We cannot guarantee that our security efforts will prevent breaches or breakdowns of our, or our third-party service providers , IT Systems since the techniques used in these attacks change frequently and may be difficult to detect for periods of time. In addition, although we have policies and procedures in place to ensure that all personal information collected by us or our third-party service providers is securely maintained, data breaches due to human error or intentional or unintentional conduct have occurred and likely will continue to occur.  Although we have seen no material impact on our business operations from the cyber-security attacks and data breaches we have experienced to date, if we suffer a loss or disclosure of confidential business or stakeholder information as a result of a breach of our IT Systems, including those of third-party service providers with whom we have contracted, we may suffer reputational, competitive and/or business harm, incur significant costs and be subject to government investigations, litigation, fines and/or damages, which may adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  
  Furthermore, while we have disaster recovery and business continuity plans in place, if our IT Systems are damaged, breached or cease to function properly for any reason, including the poor performance of, failure of or cyber-attack on third-party service providers, catastrophic events, power outages, cyber-security breaches, network outages, failed upgrades or other similar events and, if the disaster recovery and business continuity plans do not effectively resolve such issues on a timely basis, we may suffer interruptions in our ability to manage or conduct business as well as reputational harm, and may be subject to governmental investigations and litigation, any of which may adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.  

10 

Uncertain global economic conditions and disruptions in the credit markets may adversely affect our business. 
    
  Uncertain global economic conditions could adversely affect our business. Recent global economic trends pose challenges to our business and could result in declining revenues, profitability and cash flows. Although we continue to devote significant resources to support our brands and market our products at multiple price points, during periods of economic uncertainty consumers may reduce consumption or switch to economy brands, which could reduce sales volumes of our products or result in a shift in our product mix from higher margin to lower margin product offerings. Additionally, retailers may increase pressure on our selling prices or increase promotional activity for lower-priced or value offerings as they seek to maintain sales volumes and margins. 
    
  While we currently generate significant cash flows from ongoing operations and have access to global credit markets through our various financing activities, a disruption in the credit markets could negatively impact the availability or cost of funding. Reduced access to credit or increased costs could adversely affect our liquidity and capital resources or significantly increase our cost of capital. In addition, if any financial institutions that hold our cash or other investments or that are parties to our revolving credit facilities supporting our commercial paper program or other financing arrangements, such as interest rate or foreign exchange hedging instruments, were to declare bankruptcy or become insolvent, they may be unable to perform under their agreements with us. This could leave us with reduced borrowing capacity or unhedged against certain interest rate, foreign currency or commodity price exposures. In addition, tighter credit markets may lead to business disruptions for certain of our suppliers, contract manufacturers or trade customers which could, in turn, adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition. 
    
  Our success depends upon our ability to attract and retain key employees and the succession of senior management. 
    
  Our success largely depends on the performance of our management team and other key employees. If we are unable to attract and retain talented, highly qualified senior management and other key people, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition could be adversely affected. In addition, if we are unable to effectively provide for the succession of senior management, including our Chief Executive Officer, our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition may be adversely affected. While we follow a disciplined, ongoing succession planning process and have succession plans in place for senior management and other key executives, these do not guarantee that the services of qualified senior executives will continue to be available to us at particular moments in time. 
    
  We have pursued and may continue to pursue acquisitions and divestitures, which could adversely impact our results. 
    
  We have pursued and may continue to pursue acquisitions of brands, businesses or technologies from third parties.  Acquisitions and their pursuit involve numerous potential risks, including, among other things: 
             
    realizing the full extent of the expected benefits or synergies as a result of a transaction, within the anticipated time frame, or at all;  
                
    successfully integrating the operations, technologies, services, products and systems of the acquired brands or businesses in an effective, timely and cost-efficient manner;  
                
    receiving necessary consents, clearances and approvals in connection with a transaction;  
                
    diverting management s attention from other business priorities;   
                
    successfully operating in new lines of business or markets;  
                
    retaining key employees, partners, suppliers and customers of the acquired business;  
                
    conforming standards, controls, procedures and policies of the acquired business with our own; 
                
    developing or launching products with acquired technologies; and  
                
    other unanticipated problems or liabilities. 

11 

Moreover, acquisitions could result in substantial additional debt, exposure to contingent liabilities, such as litigation (including for infringement of intellectual property) or earn-out obligations, the potential impairment of goodwill or other intangible assets, or transaction costs. Any of these risks, should they materialize, could adversely impact our business, results of operations, cash flows and financial condition.   
    
  We also may periodically divest brands or businesses. These divestitures may adversely impact our results of operations if we are unable to offset the dilutive impacts from the loss of revenue associated with the divested brands or businesses, or otherwise achieve the anticipated benefits or cost savings from the divestitures. In addition, businesses under consideration for, or otherwise subject to, divestiture may be adversely impacted prior to the divestiture, which could negatively impact our results of operations. 

ITEM 1B.    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
    
  None. 

12 

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES  
    
  The Company owns or leases approximately 320 properties which include manufacturing, distribution, research and office facilities worldwide. Our corporate headquarters is located in leased property at 300 Park Avenue, New York, New York. 
    
  In the U.S., the Company operates in approximately 70 properties, of which 14 are owned. Major U.S. manufacturing and warehousing facilities used by the Oral, Personal and Home Care product segment of our business are located in Greenwood, South Carolina; Morristown, Tennessee; and Cambridge, Ohio. The Pet Nutrition segment has major manufacturing and warehousing facilities in Bowling Green, Kentucky; Topeka, Kansas; Emporia, Kansas; and Richmond, Indiana. The primary research center for Oral, Personal and Home Care products is located in Piscataway, New Jersey, and the primary research center for Pet Nutrition products is located in Topeka, Kansas. Our global data center is also located in Piscataway, New Jersey. 
    
  Overseas, the Company operates in approximately 250 properties, of which 68 are owned, in over 80 countries. Major overseas manufacturing and warehousing facilities used by the Oral, Personal and Home Care product segment of our business are located in Australia, Brazil, China, Colombia, France, Greece, Guatemala, India, Italy, Mexico, Poland, South Africa, Thailand, Turkey, Venezuela and Vietnam. The Pet Nutrition segment has major manufacturing and warehousing facilities in the Czech Republic and the Netherlands. 
    
  The Company has shared business service centers in Mexico, Poland and India, which are located in leased properties. 
    
  All of the facilities we operate are well maintained and adequate for the purpose for which they are intended. 
  
    13 

ITEM 3.    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
    
  As a global company serving consumers in more than   200   countries and territories, the Company is routinely subject to a wide variety of legal proceedings. These include disputes relating to intellectual property, contracts, product liability, marketing, advertising, foreign exchange controls, antitrust and trade regulation, as well as labor and employment, pension, privacy, environmental and tax matters, and consumer class actions. Management proactively reviews and monitors the Company s exposure to, and the impact of, environmental matters. The Company is party to various environmental matters and, as such, may be responsible for all or a portion of the cleanup, restoration and post-closure monitoring of several sites. 
    
  The Company establishes accruals for loss contingencies when it has determined that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss, or range of loss, can be reasonably estimated. Any such accruals are adjusted thereafter as appropriate to reflect changes in circumstances. 
    
  The Company also determines estimates of reasonably possible losses or ranges of reasonably possible losses in excess of related accrued liabilities, if any, when it has determined that a loss is reasonably possible and it is able to determine such estimates. For those matters disclosed below for which the amount of any potential losses can be reasonably estimated, the Company currently estimates that the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses in excess of any accrued liabilities is $  0   to approximately $  250   million (based on current exchange rates). The estimates included in this amount are based on the Company s analysis of currently available information and, as new information is obtained, these estimates may change. Due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and the unpredictability of outcomes of legal proceedings, any amounts accrued or included in this aggregate amount may not represent the ultimate loss to the Company. Thus, the Company s exposure and ultimate losses may be higher or lower, and possibly significantly so, than the amounts accrued or the range disclosed above. 
    
  Based on current knowledge, management does not believe that the ultimate resolution of loss contingencies arising from the matters discussed herein will have a material effect on the Company s consolidated financial position or its ongoing results of operations or cash flows. However, in light of the inherent uncertainties noted above, an adverse outcome in one or more matters could be material to the Company s results of operations or cash flows for any particular quarter or year. 
    
  Brazilian Matters 
    
  There are certain tax and civil proceedings outstanding, as described below, related to the Company     s 1995 acquisition of the Kolynos oral care business from Wyeth (the      Seller     ). 
    
  The Brazilian internal revenue authority has disallowed interest deductions and foreign exchange losses taken by the Company s Brazilian subsidiary for certain years in connection with the financing of the Kolynos acquisition. The tax assessments with interest, penalties and any court-mandated fees, at the current exchange rate, are approximately $  165   million. This amount includes additional assessments received from the Brazilian internal revenue authority in April 2016 relating to net operating loss carryforwards used by the Company s Brazilian subsidiary to offset taxable income that had also been deducted from the authority s original assessments. The Company has been disputing the disallowances by appealing the assessments since October 2001. Appeals are currently pending at the administrative level. In the event the Company is ultimately unsuccessful in its administrative appeals, further appeals are available within the Brazilian federal courts.   
    
  In September 2015, the Company lost one of its appeals at the administrative level and filed a lawsuit in Brazilian federal court. In February 2017, the Company lost an additional administrative appeal and filed a similar action in Brazilian federal court. Although there can be no assurances, management believes, based on the opinion of its Brazilian legal counsel, that the disallowances are without merit and that the Company should ultimately prevail. The Company is challenging these disallowances vigorously. 

14 

In July 2002, the Brazilian Federal Public Attorney filed a civil action against the federal government of Brazil, Laboratorios Wyeth-Whitehall Ltda. (the Brazilian subsidiary of the Seller) and the Company, as represented by its Brazilian subsidiary, in the 6th. Lower Federal Court in the City of S o Paulo, seeking to annul an April 2000 decision by the Brazilian Board of Tax Appeals that found in favor of the Seller s Brazilian subsidiary on the issue of whether it had incurred taxable capital gains as a result of the divestiture of Kolynos. The action seeks to make the Company s Brazilian subsidiary jointly and severally liable for any tax due from the Seller s Brazilian subsidiary. The case has been pending since 2002, and the Lower Federal Court has not issued a decision. Although there can be no assurances, management believes, based on the opinion of its Brazilian legal counsel, that the Company should ultimately prevail in this action. The Company is challenging this action vigorously. 
    
  In December 2005, the Brazilian internal revenue authority issued to the Company s Brazilian subsidiary a tax assessment with interest, penalties and any court-mandated fees of approximately $  74   million, at the current exchange rate, based on a claim that certain purchases of U.S. Treasury bills by the subsidiary and their subsequent disposition during the period 2000 to 2001 were subject to a tax on foreign exchange transactions. The Company had been disputing the assessment within the internal revenue authority s administrative appeals process. However, in November 2015, the Superior Chamber of Administrative Tax Appeals denied the Company s final administrative appeal and the Company has filed a lawsuit in the Brazilian federal court. In the event the Company is unsuccessful in this filing, further appeals are available within the Brazilian federal courts. Although there can be no assurances, management believes, based on the opinion of its Brazilian legal counsel, that the tax assessment is without merit and that the Company should ultimately prevail. The Company is challenging this assessment vigorously. 
    
  Competition Matters 
    
  Certain of the Company s subsidiaries have historically been subject to investigations, and, in some cases, fines, by governmental authorities in a number of countries related to alleged competition law violations. Substantially all of these matters also involved other consumer goods companies and/or retail customers. The Company s policy is to comply with antitrust and competition laws and, if a violation of any such laws is found, to take appropriate remedial action and to cooperate fully with any related governmental inquiry. The status of pending competition law matters as of December 31, 2017 is set forth below. 

In December 2014, the French competition law authority found that 13 consumer goods companies, including the Company s French subsidiary, exchanged competitively sensitive information related to the French home care and personal care sectors, for which the Company s French subsidiary was fined   $57   million. In addition, as a result of the Company s acquisition of the Sanex personal care business in 2011 from Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC (together with Unilever N.V.,  Unilever ) pursuant to a Business and Share Sale and Purchase Agreement (the  Sale and Purchase Agreement ), the French competition law authority found that the Company s French subsidiary, along with Hillshire Brands Company (formerly Sara Lee Corporation ( Sara Lee )), were jointly and severally liable for fines of   $25   million assessed against Sara Lee s French subsidiary. The Company is entitled to indemnification for this fine from Unilever as provided in the Sale and Purchase Agreement. The fines were confirmed by the Court of Appeal in October 2016. The Company is appealing the decision of the Court of Appeal on behalf of the Company and Sara Lee in the French Supreme Court. 
                
    In July 2014, the Greek competition law authority issued a statement of objections alleging a restriction of parallel imports into Greece. The Company responded to this statement of objections. In July 2017, the Company received the decision from the Greek competition law authority in which the Company was fined $11 million. The Company is appealing the decision to the Greek courts.  

15 

Talcum Powder Matters 
    
  The Company has been named as a defendant in civil actions alleging that certain talcum powder products that were sold prior to 1996 were contaminated with asbestos. Most of these actions involve a number of co-defendants from a variety of different industries, including suppliers of asbestos and manufacturers of products that, unlike the Company s products, were designed to contain asbestos. As of   December 31, 2017  , there were   193   individual cases pending against the Company in state and federal courts throughout the United States, as compared to   115   cases as of December 31, 2016. During the   year ended     December 31, 2017  ,   132   new cases were filed and   54   cases were resolved by voluntary dismissal, appeal in the Company s favor or settlement. The value of settlements in the years presented was not material, either individually or in the aggregate, to each such period s results of operations.  
    
  The Company believes that a significant portion of its costs incurred in defending and resolving these claims will be covered by insurance policies issued by several primary and excess insurance carriers, subject to deductibles, exclusions, retentions and policy limits. 
    
  While the Company and its legal counsel believe that these cases are without merit and intend to challenge them vigorously, there can be no assurances regarding the ultimate resolution of these matters. Since the amount of any potential losses from these cases currently cannot be reasonably estimated, the range of reasonably possible losses in excess of accrued liabilities disclosed above does not include any amount relating to these cases. 
    
  N8 
    
  The Company was a defendant in a lawsuit that was brought in Utah federal court by N8 Medical, Inc. ( N8 Medical ), Brigham Young University ( BYU ) and N8 Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( N8 Pharma ). The complaint, originally filed in November 2013, alleged breach of contract and other torts arising out of the Company s evaluation of a technology owned by BYU and licensed, at various times, to Ceragenix Pharmaceuticals, Inc., now in bankruptcy, N8 Medical and N8 Pharma. 
    
  In 2016, the Company resolved the claims brought by BYU and N8 Medical. These claims were each resolved in an amount that is not material to the Company s results of operations. In the first quarter of 2017, the court dismissed the claims of N8 Pharma and, in the third quarter of 2017, N8 Pharma appealed the decision.  
    
  ERISA Matter 
    
  In June 2016, a putative class action claiming that residual annuity payments made to certain participants in the Colgate-Palmolive Company Employees  Retirement Income Plan (the  Plan ) did not comply with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act was filed against the Plan, the Company and certain individuals in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. This action has been certified as a class action. The relief sought includes recalculation of benefits, pre- and post-judgment interest and attorneys  fees.  The Company is contesting this action vigorously. Since the amount of any potential loss from this case currently cannot be reasonably estimated, the range of reasonably possible losses in excess of accrued liabilities disclosed above does not include any amount relating to the case. 

ITEM 4.     MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
    
  Not Applicable. 

16 

PART II 
    
           ITEM 5. 
    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
       
  For information regarding the market for the Company s common stock, including quarterly market prices and dividends and stock price performance graphs, refer to  Market and Dividend Information  included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. For information regarding the number of common shareholders of record, refer to  Historical Financial Summary  included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. For information regarding the securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, refer to  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  included in Part III, Item 12 of this report. 
    
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
    
  On February 19, 2015, the Company s Board of Directors (the  Board ) authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company s common stock having an aggregate purchase price of up to $5 billion under a share repurchase program (the  2015 Program ), which replaced a previously authorized share repurchase program. The Board also has authorized share repurchases on an ongoing basis to fulfill certain requirements of the Company s compensation and benefit programs. The shares are repurchased from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions at the Company s discretion, subject to market conditions, blackout periods and other factors. 
    
  The following table shows the stock repurchase activity for each of the three months in the quarter ended   December 31, 2017  :   

  _______ 
            (1)   
    Includes share repurchases under the 2015 Program and those associated with certain employee elections under the Company s compensation and benefit programs. 
               (2)   
    The difference between the total number of shares purchased and the total number of shares purchased as part of publicly announced plans or programs is   115,972   shares, all of which relate to shares deemed surrendered to the Company to satisfy certain employee elections under the Company s compensation and benefit programs. 
               (3)   
    Includes approximate dollar value of shares that were available to be purchased under the publicly announced plans or programs that were in effect as of   December 31, 2017  . 

ITEM 6.    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
    
  Refer to the information set forth under the caption  Historical Financial Summary  included in Part IV, Item 15 of this report. 
  
    17 

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

ITEM 7. 
    MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
       
  Executive Overview 
    
  Colgate-Palmolive Company (together with its subsidiaries, the  Company  or  Colgate ) seeks to deliver strong, consistent business results and superior shareholder returns by providing consumers globally with products that make their lives healthier and more enjoyable. 
    
  To this end, the Company is tightly focused on two product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. Within these segments, the Company follows a closely defined business strategy to develop and increase market leadership positions in key product categories. These product categories are prioritized based on their capacity to maximize the use of the organization s core competencies and strong global equities and to deliver sustainable long-term growth. 
    
  Operationally, the Company is organized along geographic lines with management teams having responsibility for the business and financial results in each region. The Company competes in more than   200   countries and territories worldwide with established businesses in all regions contributing to the Company s sales and profitability. Approximately   75%   of the Company s Net sales are generated from markets outside the U.S., with approximately   50%   of the Company s Net sales coming from emerging markets (which consist of Latin America, Asia (excluding Japan), Africa/Eurasia and Central Europe). This geographic diversity and balance help to reduce the Company s exposure to business and other risks in any one country or part of the world. 
    
  The Oral, Personal and Home Care product segment is managed geographically in five reportable operating segments: North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia Pacific and Africa/Eurasia, all of which sell to a variety of retail and wholesale customers and distributors. The Company, through Hill s Pet Nutrition, also competes on a worldwide basis in the pet nutrition market, selling its products principally through authorized pet supply retailers and veterinarians. Many of the Company s products are also sold online through various e-commerce platforms and retailers. 
    
  On an ongoing basis, management focuses on a variety of key indicators to monitor business health and performance. These indicators include market share, net sales (including volume, pricing and foreign exchange components), organic sales growth (net sales growth excluding, as applicable, the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestments and the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations), a non-GAAP financial measure, and gross profit margin, operating profit, net income and earnings per share, in each case, on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis, as well as measures used to optimize the management of working capital, capital expenditures, cash flow and return on capital. The monitoring of these indicators and the Company s Code of Conduct and corporate governance practices help to maintain business health and strong internal controls. For additional information regarding non-GAAP financial measures, see  Non-GAAP Financial Measures  below. 
    
  To achieve its business and financial objectives, the Company focuses the organization on initiatives to drive and fund growth. The Company seeks to capture significant opportunities for growth by identifying and meeting consumer needs within its core categories, through its focus on innovation and the deployment of valuable consumer and shopper insights in the development of successful new products regionally, which are then rolled out on a global basis. To enhance these efforts, the Company has developed key initiatives to build strong relationships with consumers, dental and veterinary professionals and retail customers. In addition, the Company has strengthened its capabilities in e-commerce, including by developing its relationships with online-only retailers and enhancing its digital marketing capabilities. Growth opportunities are greater in those areas of the world in which economic development and rising consumer incomes expand the size and number of markets for the Company s products. 
    
  The investments needed to support growth are developed through continuous, Company-wide initiatives to lower costs and increase effective asset utilization. Through these initiatives, which are referred to as the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives, the Company seeks to become even more effective and efficient throughout its businesses. These initiatives are designed to reduce costs associated with direct materials, indirect expenses, distribution and logistics, and advertising and promotional materials, among other things, and encompass a wide range of projects, examples of which include raw material substitution, reduction of packaging materials, consolidating suppliers to leverage volumes and increasing manufacturing efficiency through SKU reductions and formulation simplification. The Company also continues to prioritize its investments toward its higher margin businesses, specifically Oral Care, Personal Care and Pet Nutrition.  

18 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Significant Items Impacting Comparability 
  On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the  TCJA  or  U.S. tax reform ) was enacted, which, among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% and established a modified territorial system requiring a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Beginning in 2018, the TCJA also requires a minimum tax on certain future earnings generated by foreign subsidiaries while providing for future tax-free repatriation of such earnings through a 100% dividends-received deduction.    
  The Company recorded a provisional charge of $275 based on its initial analysis of the TCJA using available information and estimates. As a result, applicable U.S. and foreign taxes have been provided on substantially all of the Company s accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries previously considered indefinitely reinvested. Given the significant complexity of the TCJA, anticipated guidance from the U.S. Treasury about implementing the TCJA and the potential for additional guidance from the SEC or the FASB related to the TCJA or additional information becoming available, the Company s provisional charge may be adjusted during 2018 and is expected to be finalized no later than the fourth quarter of 2018. Other provisions of the TCJA that impact future tax years are still being assessed. Refer to  Results of Operations   Income Taxes  below for additional details.  
  In September 2016, the Company s Mexican subsidiary completed the sale to the United States of America of the Mexico City site on which its commercial operations, technology center and soap production facility were previously located and received $  60   as the   third   and final installment of the sale price. The total sale price (including the   third   installment and the previously received   first   and   second   installments) was $  120  . The Company recognized a pretax gain of $  97   ($  63   aftertax gain) in the third quarter of 2016, net of costs primarily related to site preparation. 
    
  In August 2015, the Company completed the sale of its laundry detergent business in the South Pacific to Henkel AG   Co. KGaA for an aggregate purchase price of approximately 310 Australian dollars ($221) and recorded a pretax gain of $187 ($120 aftertax or $0.13 per diluted share) in Other (income) expense, net. The gain is net of charges related to the right-sizing of the Company s South Pacific business, asset write-offs related to the divested laundry detergent business and other costs related to the sale.  
  Effective December 31, 2015, the Company concluded it no longer met the accounting criteria for consolidation of its Venezuelan subsidiary ( CP Venezuela ) and began accounting for CP Venezuela using the cost method of accounting. As such, effective December 31, 2015, the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet no longer includes the assets and liabilities of CP Venezuela. As a result of this change in accounting, the Company recorded an aftertax charge of   $1,058   (  $1,084   pretax) or   $1.16   per diluted share in 2015. The charge primarily consists of an impairment of the Company s investment in CP Venezuela of   $952  , which includes intercompany receivables from CP Venezuela, and   $111   related to the reclassification of cumulative translation losses. Prior periods have not been restated and CP Venezuela s Net sales, Operating profit and Net income are included in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income through December 31, 2015. See Note 14, Venezuela to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.  
    
  Since January 1, 2016, under the cost method of accounting, the Company no longer includes the local operating results of CP Venezuela in its Consolidated Financial Statements and includes income relating to CP Venezuela only to the extent it receives cash for sales of inventory to CP Venezuela or for dividends or royalties remitted by CP Venezuela, all of which have been immaterial. Although CP Venezuela s local operating results are no longer included in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements for accounting purposes, under current tax rules, the Company is required to continue including CP Venezuela in its consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. In the first quarter of 2016, Provision for income taxes included a   $210   U.S. income tax benefit principally related to changes in Venezuela s foreign exchange regime implemented in March 2016. See Note 11, Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for additional details.  
    
  Prior to the change in accounting, CP Venezuela s functional currency was the U.S. dollar since Venezuela had been designated hyper-inflationary and, as such, Venezuelan currency fluctuations were reported in income. The Company remeasured the financial statements of CP Venezuela at the end of each month at the rate at which it expected to remit future dividends which, based on the advice of legal counsel, was the SICAD rate (formerly known as the SICAD I rate). During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company incurred pretax losses of   $34   (  $22   aftertax or   $0.02   per diluted common share) related to the remeasurement of CP Venezuela s local currency-denominated net monetary assets at the quarter-end SICAD rate for the second and third quarters of 2015. The SICAD rate did not revalue during the fourth quarter of 2015 and was   13.50   bolivares per dollar as of December 31, 2015. The remeasurement losses incurred in the second and third quarters of 2015 are referred to as the  Venezuela Remeasurements.  
  
    19 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Included in the Venezuela Remeasurements were charges related to the devaluation-protected bonds issued by the Venezuelan government and held by CP Venezuela. Because the official exchange rate remained at   6.30   bolivares per dollar, the devaluation-protected bonds did not revalue at the SICAD rate but remained at the official exchange rate, resulting in an impairment in the fair value of the bonds.  
    
  The Company is in the midst of a restructuring program known as the  Global Growth and Efficiency Program,  which following the most recent expansion and extension approved by the Company s Board of Directors on October 26, 2017, runs through   December 31, 2019  . The program s initiatives are expected to help the Company ensure sustained solid worldwide growth in unit volume, organic sales, operating profit and earnings per share and to enhance its global leadership positions in its core businesses. Implementation of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program remains on track.                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                            
  The initiatives under the Global Growth and Efficiency Program are focused on the following areas: 
             
    Expanding Commercial Hubs 
                
    Extending Shared Business Services and Streamlining Global Functions 
                
    Optimizing Global Supply Chain and Facilities 
       
  Savings, substantially all of which are expected to increase future cash flows, are projected to be in the range of   $560   to   $635   pretax (  $500   to   $575   aftertax) annually, once all projects are approved and implemented. Cumulative pretax charges resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, once all phases are approved and implemented, are estimated to be in the range of   $1,730   to   $1,885   (  $1,280   to   $1,380   aftertax).  
    
  In   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , the Company incurred aftertax costs of   $246  ,   $168   and   $183  , respectively, associated with the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. For more information regarding the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, see  Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges  below and Note 4, Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  Outlook 
    
  Looking forward, the Company expects global macroeconomic and market conditions to remain highly challenging and category growth rates around the world to continue to be slow. While the global marketplace in which the Company operates has always been highly competitive, the Company continues to experience heightened competitive activity in certain markets from strong local competitors and from other large multinational companies, some of which have greater resources than the Company does. Such activities have included more aggressive product claims and marketing challenges, as well as increased promotional spending and geographic expansion. The Company has also been negatively affected by changes in the policies or practices of its retail trade customers in key markets, such as inventory de-stocking. In addition, the growth of e-commerce has affected and continues to affect consumer preferences and market dynamics. Given that approximately   75%   of the Company s Net sales originate in markets outside the U.S., the Company has experienced and may continue to experience volatile foreign currency fluctuations and high raw and packaging material costs. While the Company has taken, and will continue to take, measures to mitigate the effect of these conditions, should they persist, they could adversely affect the Company s future results.  
    
  The Company believes it is well prepared to meet the challenges ahead due to its strong financial condition, experience operating in challenging environments and continued focus on the Company s key priorities: growing sales through engaging with consumers, developing world-class innovation and working with retail partners; driving efficiency on every line of the income statement to increase margins; generating strong cash flow performance and utilizing that cash effectively to enhance total shareholder returns; and leading to win by staying true to the Company s culture and focusing on its stakeholders. The Company s commitment to these priorities, together with the strength of the Company s global brands, its broad international presence in both developed and emerging markets and cost-saving initiatives, such as the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives and the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, should position the Company well to increase shareholder value over the long term. 

20 

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Results of Operations 
    
  Net Sales 
    
  Worldwide Net sales were   $15,454   in   2017  ,   up     1.5%   from   2016  , driven by volume growth of   0.5%  , net selling price increases of   0.5%   and positive foreign exchange of   0.5%  . Organic sales (Net sales excluding, as applicable, the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestments and the deconsolidation of the Company     s Venezuelan operations), a non-GAAP financial measure as discussed below,   increased     1.0%   in   2017  . 
    
  Net sales in the Oral, Personal and Home Care product segment were   $13,162   in   2017  ,   up     2.0%   from   2016  , driven by volume growth of   0.5%  , net selling price increases of   0.5%   and positive foreign exchange of   1.0%  . Organic sales in the Oral, Personal and Home Care product segment   increased     1.0%   in   2017  . 
    
  The increase in organic sales in 2017 versus 2016 was driven by an increase in Oral Care organic sales, partially offset by a decline in Personal Care and Home Care organic sales. The increase in Oral Care organic sales was due to organic sales growth in the toothpaste category. The decrease in Personal Care organic sales was primarily due to declines in organic sales in the underarm protection, liquid hand soap and shampoo categories, which were partially offset by organic sales growth in the shower gel and bar soap categories. The decrease in the Home Care organic sales was primarily due to declines in organic sales in the hand dish category, partially offset by organic sales growth in the liquid cleaners and fabric conditioner categories.   
    
  The Company     s share of the global toothpaste market was   43.3%   for full year   2017  , down 0.4 share points from full year 2016, and its share of the global manual toothbrush market was   32.6%   for full year   2017  , down 0.5 share points from full year 2016. Full year   2017   market shares in toothpaste were up in Africa/Eurasia and down in North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific versus full year 2016. In the manual toothbrush category, full year   2017   market shares were up in Africa/Eurasia and down in North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia Pacific versus full year 2016. For additional information regarding the Company s use of market share data and limitations on such data, see  Market Share Information  below. 
    
  Net sales for Hill s Pet Nutrition were   $2,292   in   2017  ,   an increase   of   1.0%   from   2016  , as net selling price increases of   1.5%   and positive foreign exchange of   0.5%   were partially offset by volume declines of   1.0%  . Organic sales for Hill s Pet Nutrition   increased     0.5%   in   2017  . 
    
  The increase in organic sales in 2017 versus 2016 was due to an increase in organic sales in the Prescription Diet category, partially offset by a decline in organic sales in the Advanced Nutrition and Naturals categories. 
    
  Worldwide Net sales were   $15,195   in   2016  , down   5.0%   from   2015  , as net selling price increases of 2.5% were more than offset by volume declines of 3.0% and negative foreign exchange of   4.5%  . Excluding divested businesses and the impact of the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations, volume increased 1.5%. Organic sales increased   4.0%   in   2016  . 

21 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Gross Profit/Margin 
    
  Worldwide Gross profit   increased     2%   to   $9,280   in   2017   from   $9,123   in   2016  . Gross profit in both periods included charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. Excluding these charges in both periods, Gross profit   increased   to $  9,355   in   2017   from   $9,169   in   2016  , reflecting an increase of $156 resulting from higher Net sales and an increase of $30 resulting from higher Gross profit margin, which also excludes charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
    
  Worldwide Gross profit margin was   60.0%   in   2017  ,   even   with   2016  . Excluding charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program in both periods, Gross profit margin   increased   by   20   basis points (bps) to   60.5%   in   2017  , from   60.3%   in   2016  . This increase in Gross profit margin was primarily driven by cost savings from the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives and the Global Growth and Efficiency Program (  200   bps) and higher pricing (  20   bps), partially offset by higher raw and packaging material costs (  190   bps). 
    
  Worldwide Gross profit decreased   3%   to   $9,123   in   2016   from   $9,399   in   2015  . Gross profit in both periods included charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. Excluding these items in both periods, Gross profit decreased to   $9,169   in   2016   from   $9,419   in   2015  , reflecting a decrease of $492 resulting from the impact of the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations effective December 31, 2015 and negative foreign exchange, partially offset by growth in organic sales. This decrease in Gross profit was partially offset by an increase of $242 resulting from higher Gross profit margin. 
    
  Worldwide Gross profit margin increased to   60.0%   in   2016   from   58.6%   in   2015  . Excluding the charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program in both periods, Gross profit margin increased by   160   bps to   60.3%   in   2016  , from   58.7%   in   2015  . This increase in Gross profit margin was primarily driven by cost savings from the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives and the Global Growth and Efficiency Program (  200   bps) and higher pricing (  100   bps), partially offset by higher costs (  170   bps), which included higher raw and packaging material costs driven by significant foreign exchange transaction costs and the impact of the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations effective December 31, 2015. 

22 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 
    
  Selling, general and administrative expenses   increased     5%   to   $5,497   in   2017   from   $5,249   in   2016  . Selling, general and administrative expenses in both periods included charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. Excluding these charges in both periods, Selling, general and administrative expenses   increased   to $  5,408   in   2017   from $  5,172   in   2016  , reflecting increased advertising investment of   $145   and higher overhead expenses of $  91  . 
    
  Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales   increased   to   35.6%   in   2017   from   34.5%   in   2016  . Excluding charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program in both periods, Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales were   35.0%  , an   increase   of   100   bps as compared to   2016  . This increase in   2017   was driven by increased advertising investment (  80   bps) and higher overhead expenses (  20   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. In   2017  , advertising investment   increased     10.2%   to   $1,573   as compared with   $1,428   in   2016  , and   increased   as a percentage of Net sales to   10.2%   from   9.4%   in   2016  . 
    
  Selling, general and administrative expenses   decreased     4%   to   $5,249   in   2016   from   $5,464   in   2015  . Selling, general and administrative expenses in both periods included charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. Excluding these charges in both periods, Selling, general and administrative expenses decreased to   $5,172   in   2016   from   $5,400   in   2015  , reflecting decreased advertising investment of   $63   and lower overhead expenses of   $165  . 
    
  Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales   increased   to   34.5%   in   2016   from   34.1%   in   2015  . Excluding charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program in both periods, Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales were   34.0%  , an   increase   of   30   bps as compared to   2015  . This increase in   2016   was driven by increased advertising investment (  10   bps) and higher overhead expenses (  20   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. In   2016  , advertising investment   decreased     4.2%   to   $1,428   as compared with   $1,491   in   2015  ,  while as a percentage of Net sales, it   increased   to   9.4%   from   9.3%   in   2015  . 

23 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Other (Income) Expense, Net 
    
  Other (income) expense, net was   $194  ,   $37   and   $62   in   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. The components of Other (income) expense, net are presented below: 

Other (income) expense, net was   $194   in   2017   as compared to   $37   in   2016  . Other (income) expense, net in both periods included charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. Other (income) expense, net in 2016 also included a gain on the sale of land in Mexico and charges for litigation matters. 
    
  Other (income) expense, net was   $37   in   2016   as compared to   $62   in   2015  . In   2015  , Other (income) expense, net included charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, a gain on the sale of the Company s laundry detergent business in the South Pacific, charges related to the Venezuela Remeasurements and charges for litigation matters. 
    
  Excluding the items described above in all periods, as applicable, Other (income) expense, net was   $25   in   2017  ,   $12   in   2016   and   $31   in   2015  .  

24 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Operating Profit 
    
  Operating profit   decreased     6%   to $  3,589   in   2017   from   $3,837   in   2016  . Operating profit   increased     38%   to   $3,837   in   2016   from   $2,789   in   2015  .   
    
  In   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , Operating profit included charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. In 2016 and 2015, Operating profit also included charges for litigation matters. In 2016, Operating profit also included a gain on sale of land in Mexico. In 2015, Operating profit also included a charge related to the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations, charges related to the Venezuela Remeasurements and a gain on the sale of the Company s laundry detergent business in the South Pacific. Excluding these items in all periods, as applicable, Operating profit   decreased     2%   in   2017  , primarily due to an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses, which was partially offset by higher Gross profit, and Operating profit in   2016   was even with   2015  , primarily due to lower Gross profit, which was offset by a decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses.  
    
  Operating profit margin was   23.2%   in   2017  , compared with   25.3%   in   2016   and   17.4%   in   2015  . Excluding the items described above in   2017   and   2016  , as applicable, Operating profit margin   decreased     80   bps to   25.4%   in   2017   compared to   26.2%   in   2016  . This decrease is due to an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses (  100   bps), partially offset by an increase in Gross profit (  20   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. Excluding the items described above in   2016   and   2015  , as applicable, Operating profit margin increased   130   bps in   2016   compared to   2015  , primarily due to an increase in Gross profit (  160   bps), partially offset by an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses (  30   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. 

Interest (Income) Expense, Net 
    
  Interest (income) expense, net was   $102   in   2017   compared with   $99   in   2016   and   $26   in   2015  . The increase in Interest (income) expense, net in 2017 as compared to 2016 was primarily due to higher average interest rates on debt. The change in Interest (income) expense, net from 2015 to 2016 was primarily due to lower interest income on investments held outside the United States, which reflects the impact of the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations effective December 31, 2015, and higher interest expense as a result of higher average interest rates on debt. 

25 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Income Taxes 
    
  The effective income tax rate in   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was   37.7%  ,   30.8%   and   44.0%  , respectively. As reflected in the table below, the non-GAAP effective income tax rate was   29.5%   in   2017   and   31.3%   in   2016   and   2015  . The decrease in the non-GAAP effective income tax rate in 2017 as compared to 2016 is due primarily to the inclusion of excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation in the Provision for income taxes, as discussed in more detail below.   

_______ 
   (1)    The income tax effect on non-GAAP items is calculated based upon the tax laws and statutory income tax rates applicable in the tax jurisdiction(s) of the underlying non-GAAP adjustment.  
   (2)    The impact of non-GAAP items on the Company s effective tax rate represents the difference in the effective tax rate calculated with and without the non-GAAP adjustment on Income before income taxes and Provision for income taxes. 
   (3)    See Note 14, Venezuela to the Consolidated Financial Statements and      Significant Items Impacting Comparability  above. 
  
    26 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted, which, among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% and established a modified territorial system requiring a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Beginning in 2018, the TCJA also requires a minimum tax on certain future earnings generated by foreign subsidiaries while providing for future tax-free repatriation of such earnings through a 100% dividends-received deduction. The Company s effective income tax rate in 2017 included a provisional charge of   $275   related to the TCJA using available information and estimates. The provisional charge is comprised of $451 related to the one-time deemed repatriation of accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries and related withholding taxes and $20 related primarily to the remeasurement of net deferred tax assets as a result of the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, which are offset by $196 of income taxes which had been previously provided for planned repatriations of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. As a result, applicable U.S. and foreign taxes have been provided on substantially all of the Company s accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries previously considered indefinitely reinvested. Given the significant complexity of the TCJA, anticipated guidance from the U.S. Treasury about implementing the TCJA and the potential for additional guidance from the SEC or the FASB related to the TCJA or additional information becoming available, the Company s provisional charge may be adjusted during 2018 and is expected to be finalized no later than the fourth quarter of 2018. Other provisions of the TCJA that impact future tax years are still being assessed.  
    
  The effective income tax rate in 2017 also included   $47   of stock compensation excess tax benefits in the Provision for income taxes as a result of the adoption of ASU No. 2016-09,  Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting  effective January 1, 2017. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Recent Accounting Pronouncements and Note 11, Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, for additional details. 
    
  The effective income tax rate in 2016 included a $210 U.S. income tax benefit recognized in the first quarter of 2016 principally related to changes in Venezuela s foreign exchange regime implemented in March 2016. Although, effective December 31, 2015, the operating results of CP Venezuela are no longer included in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements, under current tax rules, the Company is required to continue including CP Venezuela s results in its consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. See Note 11, Income Taxes and Note 14, Venezuela to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In order to fully utilize the above mentioned $210 tax benefit in 2016, the Company repatriated an incremental $1,500 of earnings of foreign subsidiaries it previously considered indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S., and accordingly, recorded a tax charge of $210 during the first quarter of 2016.  
    
  The Company has taken a tax position in a foreign jurisdiction since 2002 that has been challenged by the local tax authorities. In 2015, the Company became aware of several Supreme Court rulings in the foreign jurisdiction disallowing certain tax deductions which had the effect of reversing prior decisions. Since the Company had taken deductions in prior years similar to those now disallowed by the Court, the Company, as required, reassessed its tax position and increased its unrecognized tax benefits by $  15  . 
    
  In 2016, the Supreme Court in the foreign jurisdiction decided the matter in the Company s favor for the years 2002 through 2005. Also in 2016, the Administrative Court in the foreign jurisdiction decided the matter in the Company s favor for the years 2008 through 2011 by acknowledging the Supreme Court s ruling for the years 2002 through 2005, which eliminated the possibility of future appeals. As a result, the Company recorded a tax benefit of $30, including interest. The tax benefit of deductions related to this tax position taken for the years 2006 through 2007 and 2012 through 2014 totals approximately   $16   at current exchange rates. These deductions are currently being challenged by the tax authorities in the foreign jurisdiction either in the lower courts or at the administrative level and, if resolved in the Company s favor, will result in the Company recording additional tax benefits, including interest. 
    
  The effective income tax rate in all years benefited from tax planning associated with the Company s global business initiatives.   
    
  Reflecting U.S. tax reform, the Company expects its effective income tax rate in 2018 to be in the range of 26% to 27% both on a GAAP basis and excluding charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 

27 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Net Income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and Earnings per share, diluted 
    
  Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company was   $2,024  , or   $2.28   per share on a diluted basis, in   2017   compared to   $2,441  , or   $2.72   per share on a diluted basis, in   2016   and   $1,384  , or   $1.52   per share on a diluted basis, in   2015  . In   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company included aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program.     In     2017  , Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company also included a charge related to U.S. tax reform. In 2016 and 2015, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company also included charges for litigation matters. In 2016, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company also included a gain on sale of land in Mexico and benefits from tax matters. In 2015, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company also included charges related to the Venezuela Remeasurements, a charge related to the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations, a gain on the sale of the Company s laundry detergent business in the South Pacific and a charge for a tax matter.  
    
  Excluding the items described above in all years, as applicable, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company increased   1%   to   $2,545   in   2017   and Earnings per share, diluted   increased     2%   to   $2.87  , and Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company decreased 1% to   $2,522   in   2016  , as compared to   $2,556   in   2015  , and Earnings per share, diluted was even at   $2.81  . 

28 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

_______ 
   (1)    The income tax effect on non-GAAP items is calculated based upon the tax laws and statutory income tax rates applicable in the tax jurisdiction(s) of the underlying non-GAAP adjustment. 
   (2)    The impact of non-GAAP adjustments on Diluted earnings per share may not necessarily equal the difference between  GAAP  and  non-GAAP  as a result of rounding. 
   (3)    See Note 14, Venezuela to the Consolidated Financial Statements and  Significant Items Impacting Comparability  above. 

29 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Segment Results 
    
  The Company markets its products in over 200 countries and territories throughout the world in two product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, including Operating profit. The Company uses Operating profit as a measure of the operating segment performance because it excludes the impact of corporate-driven decisions related to interest expense and income taxes. 
    
  Oral, Personal and Home Care 
    
    North America 

Net sales in North America   decreased     2.0%   in   2017   to   $3,117  , driven by net selling price decreases of   2.0%  , while volume and foreign exchange were flat. Organic sales in North America decreased   2.0%   in   2017  . 
    
  The decrease in organic sales in North America in   2017   versus   2016   was primarily due to decreases in Personal Care and Home Care organic sales. The decrease in Personal Care was due to declines in organic sales in the underarm protection and liquid hand soap categories. The decrease in Home Care was primarily due to a decline in organic sales in the hand dish category.  
    
  Net sales in North America increased   1.0%   in   2016   to   $3,183  , driven by volume growth of 2.5%, which was partially offset by net selling price decreases of 1.0% and negative foreign exchange of   0.5%  . Organic sales in North America increased   1.5%   in   2016  . 
    
  Operating profit in North America   decreased     4%   in   2017   to   $986  , or   80   bps to   31.6%   of Net sales. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to a decrease in Gross profit (  40   bps) and an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses (  60   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This decrease in Gross profit was primarily driven by higher raw and packaging material costs (  160   bps) and lower pricing due to increased in-store promotional activities, which were partially offset by cost savings from the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives and the Global Growth and Efficiency Program (  220   bps). This increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to increased advertising investment (  60   bps). 
    
  Operating profit in North America increased   6%   in   2016   to   $1,030  , or   150   bps to   32.4%   of Net sales. This increase in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to an increase in Gross profit (  100   bps) and a decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses (  70   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This increase in Gross profit was primarily driven by cost savings from the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives (  190   bps), which were partially offset by higher raw and packaging material costs (  70   bps). This decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to lower overhead expenses (  40   bps) and decreased advertising investment (  30   bps), in part reflecting a shift from advertising investment to in-store promotional activities. 

30 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Latin America 

Net sales in Latin America   increased     6.5%   in   2017   to   $3,887  , driven by volume growth of   2.5%  , net selling price increases of   3.0%   and positive foreign exchange of   1.0%  . Volume gains were led by Brazil, the Southern Cone and the Andean Region. Organic sales in Latin America increased   5.5%   in   2017  . 
    
  The increase in organic sales in Latin America in   2017   versus   2016   was driven by increases in Oral Care organic sales as well as increases in Personal Care and Home Care organic sales. The increase in Oral Care was due to organic sales growth in the toothpaste, manual toothbrush and mouthwash categories. The increase in Personal Care was due to organic sales growth in the bar soap and shampoo categories. The increase in Home Care was due to organic sales growth in the fabric conditioner and liquid cleaners categories, partially offset by a decline in the hand dish category.  
    
  Net sales in Latin America decreased   15.5%   in   2016   to   $3,650  , as net selling price increases of 8.5% were more than offset by volume declines of 14.0% and negative foreign exchange of   10.0%  . Excluding the impact of the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations, volume increased 1.5%, led by volume gains in Mexico, partially offset by volume declines in Argentina. Organic sales in Latin America increased   10.0%   in   2016  . 
    
  Operating profit in Latin America   increased     3%   in   2017   to   $1,162  , while as a percentage of Net sales it decreased   110   bps to   29.9%   of Net sales. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses (  180   bps), partially offset by an increase in Gross profit (  40   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This increase in Gross profit was mainly driven by cost savings from the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives (  170   bps) and higher pricing, which were partially offset by higher raw and packaging material costs (  260   bps). This increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to increased advertising investment (  120   bps) and higher overhead expenses (  60   bps). 
    
  Operating profit in Latin America decreased   6%   in   2016   to   $1,132  , while as a percentage of Net sales it increased   310   bps to   31.0%   of Net sales. This increase in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to an increase in Gross profit (  390   bps), partially offset by an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses (  70   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This increase in Gross profit was mainly driven by cost savings from the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives (  150   bps) and higher pricing, which were partially offset by higher raw and packaging material costs (  100   bps), which included foreign exchange transaction costs and the impact of the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations effective December 31, 2015. This increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to increased advertising investment (  90   bps), which was partially offset by lower overhead expenses (  20   bps). 

31 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Europe 

Net sales in Europe   increased     2.0%   in   2017   to   $2,394  , as volume growth of   2.0%   and positive foreign exchange of   1.0%   were partially offset by net selling price decreases of   1.0%  . Volume gains were led by France, the Netherlands, Spain and Poland. Organic sales in Europe increased   1.0%   in   2017  . 
    
  The increase in organic sales in Europe in   2017   versus   2016   was primarily due to an increase in Oral Care organic sales, partially offset by a decrease in organic sales in Personal Care. The increase in Oral Care was driven by organic sales growth in the toothpaste category. The decrease in Personal Care was primarily due to declines in organic sales in the shampoo and bar soap categories, partially offset by an increase in organic sales in the shower gel category.  
    
  Net sales in Europe decreased   3.0%   in 2016 to   $2,342  , as volume growth of 2.5% was more than offset by net selling price decreases of 2.5% and negative foreign exchange of   3.0%  . Organic sales in Europe were flat in 2016. Volume gains were led by Germany, the United Kingdom and Poland, partially offset by volume declines in France.  
    
  Operating profit in Europe   increased     3%   in   2017   to   $599  , or   30   bps to   25.0%   of Net sales. This increase in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to an increase in Gross profit (  30   bps) and a decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses (  20   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This increase in Gross profit was primarily due to cost savings from the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives and the Global Growth and Efficiency Program (  230   bps) and category sales mix, which were partially offset by higher raw and packaging material costs (  230   bps), including foreign exchange transaction costs, and lower pricing due to increased in-store promotional activities. This decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to lower overhead expenses (  70   bps), which were partially offset by increased advertising investment (  50   bps). 
    
  Operating profit in Europe decreased   6%   in   2016   to   $579  , or   80   bps to   24.7%   of Net sales. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to a decrease in Gross profit (  100   bps), partially offset by a decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses (  50   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This decrease in Gross profit was primarily driven by higher costs (  200   bps), primarily due to higher raw and packaging material costs, which included foreign exchange transaction costs, and lower pricing due to increased in-store promotional activities. These decreases in Gross profit were partially offset by cost savings from the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives and the Global Growth and Efficiency Program (  190   bps). This decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to decreased advertising investment (  100   bps), in part reflecting a shift from advertising investment to in-store promotional activities, which was partially offset by higher overhead expenses (  50   bps). 

32 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Asia Pacific 

Net sales in Asia Pacific   decreased     0.5%   in   2017   to   $2,781  , driven by volume declines of   0.5%  , while net selling prices and foreign exchange were flat. Volume declines in Australia, Thailand and India were partially offset by volume gains in the Philippines. Organic sales in Asia Pacific declined   0.5%   in   2017  .  
    
  The decrease in organic sales in   2017   versus   2016   was due to a decrease in Personal Care and Home Care organic sales, partially offset by an increase in organic sales in Oral Care. The decrease in Personal Care was primarily due to declines in organic sales in the shampoo and bar soap categories. The decrease in Home Care was due to declines in organic sales in the hand dish and fabric conditioner categories. The increase in Oral Care was due to an increase in organic sales in the toothpaste category, partially offset by a decline in organic sales in the manual toothbrush category.  
    
  Net sales in Asia Pacific decreased   5.0%   in   2016   to   $2,796  , driven by volume declines of 1.0% and negative foreign exchange of   4.0%  , while net selling prices were flat. Excluding the impact of the divestment of the Company s laundry detergent business in the South Pacific, volume increased 2.0%, led by volume gains in the Philippines, Australia and the Greater China region. Organic sales in Asia Pacific grew   2.0%   in   2016  .  
    
  Operating profit in Asia Pacific   decreased     5%   in   2017   to   $841  , or   150   bps to   30.2%   of Net sales. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to a decrease in Gross profit (  20   bps) and an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses (  120   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This decrease in Gross profit was primarily due to higher costs (  290   bps), primarily driven by raw and packaging material costs, which were partially offset by cost savings from the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives (  250   bps). This increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to higher overhead expenses (  90   bps) and increased advertising investment (  30   bps). 
    
  Operating profit in Asia Pacific decreased to   $887   in   2016  , while as a percentage of Net sales, it increased   150   bps to   31.7%   of Net sales. This increase in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to an increase in Gross profit (  50   bps) and a decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses (  40   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This increase in Gross profit was primarily due to cost savings from the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives (  260   bps) and sales mix, which were partially offset by higher costs (  290   bps), primarily driven by raw and packaging material costs, which included foreign exchange transaction costs. This decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to decreased advertising investment (  10   bps), in part reflecting a shift from advertising investment to in-store promotional activities, and lower overhead expenses (  30   bps). 

33 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Africa/Eurasia 

Net sales in Africa/Eurasia   increased     2.5%   in   2017   to   $983  , as net selling price increases of   3.5%   and positive foreign exchange of   3.5%   were partially offset by volume declines of   4.5%  . Volume declines in the Sub-Saharan Africa region, Turkey and South Africa were partially offset by volume gains in Russia. Organic sales in Africa/Eurasia declined   1.0%   in   2017  . 
    
  The decrease in organic sales in 2017 versus 2016 was due to a decrease in Oral Care, Personal Care and Home Care organic sales. The decrease in Oral Care was due to declines in organic sales in the manual toothbrush and mouthwash categories. The decrease in Personal Care was primarily due to declines in organic sales in the bar soap and underarm protection categories, partially offset by an increase in organic sales in the shampoo category. The decrease in Home Care     was primarily due to declines in organic sales in the hand dish and liquid cleaners categories, partially offset by an increase in organic sales in the fabric conditioner category.   
    
  Net sales in Africa/Eurasia decreased   4.0%   in   2016   to   $960  , as net selling price increases of 9.5% were more than offset by volume declines of 4.0% and negative foreign exchange of   9.5%  . Organic sales in Africa/Eurasia grew   5.5%   in   2016  . Volume declines in the Sub-Saharan Africa region and South Africa were partially offset by volume gains in the Gulf States. 
    
  Operating profit in Africa/Eurasia   decreased     4%   in   2017   to   $179  , or   120   bps to   18.2%   of Net sales. This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses (  260   bps), partially offset by an increase in Gross profit (  160   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This increase in Gross profit was mainly driven by cost savings from the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives (  120   bps) and higher pricing, which were partially offset by higher raw and packaging material costs (  100   bps). The increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to increased advertising investment (  310   bps), partially offset by lower overhead expenses (  50   bps).  
    
  Operating profit in Africa/Eurasia increased   4%   in   2016   to   $186  , or   160   bps to   19.4%   of Net sales. This increase in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to an increase in Gross profit (  300   bps), partially offset by an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses (  150   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This increase in Gross profit was mainly driven by cost savings from the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives (  170   bps) and higher pricing, which were partially offset by higher raw and packaging material costs (  350   bps), driven by higher foreign exchange transaction costs. The increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to higher overhead expenses (  120   bps) and increased advertising investment (  30   bps).  

34 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Hill     s Pet Nutrition 

Net sales for Hill s Pet Nutrition   increased     1.0%   in   2017   to   $2,292  , driven by net selling price increases of   1.5%   and positive foreign exchange of   0.5%  , partially offset by volume declines of   1.0%  . Volume declines in the United States, Japan and Western and Eastern Europe were partially offset by volume gains in Australia and Latin America. The volume declines in the United States were attributable to trade disruption, while the volume declines in Japan were attributable to a continued contraction in the market. Organic sales in Hill s Pet Nutrition increased   0.5%   in   2017  .  
    
  The increase in organic sales in   2017   versus   2016   was due to an increase in organic sales in the Prescription Diet category, partially offset by declines in organic sales in the Advanced Nutrition and Natural categories. 
    
  Net sales for Hill s Pet Nutrition increased   2.5%   in   2016   to   $2,264  , driven by net selling price increases of 2.5% while volume and foreign exchange were flat. Organic sales in Hill s Pet Nutrition increased   2.5%   in   2016  . Volume gains led by Russia, Western Europe, South Africa, Canada and Taiwan were offset by volume declines in the United States and Japan.  
    
  Operating profit in Hill s Pet Nutrition was   $653   in   2017  ,   even   with   2016  , while as a percentage of Net sales it decreased   30   bps to   28.5%  . This decrease in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to an increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses (  90   bps), partially offset by an increase in Gross profit (  60   bps), both as a percentage of Net sales. This increase in Gross profit was primarily due to cost savings from the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives (  170   bps) and higher pricing, partially offset by higher raw and packaging material costs (  110   bps), net of foreign exchange transaction costs. This increase in Selling, general and administrative expenses was due to increased advertising investment (  60   bps) and higher overhead expenses (  30   bps). 
    
  Operating profit in Hill s Pet Nutrition increased   7%   in   2016   to   $653  , or   110   bps to   28.8%   of Net sales. This increase in Operating profit as a percentage of Net sales was primarily due to an increase in Gross profit (  20   bps), a decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses (  10   bps), and a decrease in Other (income) expense, net (  80   bps), all as a percentage of Net sales. This increase in Gross profit was primarily driven by cost savings from the Company s funding-the-growth initiatives (  190   bps) and higher pricing, partially offset by higher costs (  270   bps), primarily driven by higher raw and packaging material costs, which included higher foreign exchange transaction costs. This decrease in Selling, general and administrative expenses was primarily due to lower overhead expenses (  10   bps). This decrease in Other (income) expense, net was in part due to a foreign sales tax benefit. 

35 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Corporate 

Corporate operations include Corporate overhead costs, research and development costs, stock-based compensation expense related to stock options and restricted stock unit awards, restructuring and related implementation costs and gains and losses on sales of non-core product lines. The components of Operating profit (loss) for the Corporate segment are presented as follows: 

Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges  
    
  Global Growth and Efficiency Program  
    
  In the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company commenced the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. The program was expanded in 2014 and expanded and extended in 2015. Building on the Company s successful implementation of the program, on October 26, 2017, the Board approved an expansion of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and an extension of the program through   December 31, 2019   to take advantage of additional opportunities to streamline the Company s operations. 
    
  Initiatives under the Global Growth and Efficiency Program are expected to help the Company ensure sustained solid worldwide growth in unit volume, organic sales, operating profit and earnings per share and to enhance its global leadership positions in its core businesses, producing significant benefits in the Company s long-term business performance. The major objectives of the program include: 
             
    Becoming even stronger on the ground through the continued evolution and expansion of proven global and regional commercial capabilities, which have already been successfully implemented in a number of the Company     s operations around the world.  
                
    Simplifying and standardizing how work gets done by increasing technology-enabled collaboration and taking advantage of global data and analytic capabilities, leading to smarter and faster decisions.  
                
    Reducing structural costs to continue to increase the Company     s gross and operating profit. 
                
    Building on Colgate     s current position of strength to enhance its leading market share positions worldwide and ensure sustained sales and earnings growth. 

36 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

The initiatives under the Global Growth and Efficiency Program continue to be focused on the following areas: 
             
    Expanding Commercial Hubs   Building on the success of the hub structure implemented around the world, streamlining operations in order to drive smarter and faster decision-making, strengthen capabilities available on the ground and improve cost structure. 
                
    Extending Shared Business Services and Streamlining Global Functions   Optimizing the Company     s shared service organizational model in all regions of the world and continuing to streamline global functions to improve cost structure. 
                
    Optimizing Global Supply Chain and Facilities   Continuing to optimize manufacturing efficiencies, global warehouse networks and office locations for greater efficiency, lower cost and speed to bring innovation to market. 
       
  Implementation of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program remains on track. Savings, substantially all of which are expected to increase future cash flows, are projected to be in the range of   $560   to   $635   pretax (  $500   to   $575   aftertax) annually, once all projects are approved and implemented. Savings achieved in 2017 were in line with the Company s previously disclosed estimate of $50 to $60 pretax ($40 to $50 aftertax). The Company expects savings in 2018 to be approximately   $90   to   $120   pretax (  $100   to   $125   aftertax). Cumulative pretax charges resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, once all phases are approved and implemented, are estimated to be in the range of   $1,730   to   $1,885   (  $1,280   to   $1,380   aftertax). The Company anticipates that pretax charges for   2018   will approximate   $100   to   $175   (  $75   to   $125   aftertax). It is expected that substantially all charges resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program will be incurred by   December 31, 2019  . 
    
  The pretax charges resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program are currently estimated to be comprised of the following categories: Employee-Related Costs, including severance, pension and other termination benefits (  50%  ); asset-related costs, primarily Incremental Depreciation and Asset Impairments (  10%  ); and Other charges, which include contract termination costs, consisting primarily of related implementation charges resulting directly from exit activities (  20%  ) and the implementation of new strategies (  20%  ). Over the course of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, it is currently estimated that approximately   80%   of the charges will result in cash expenditures.  
    
  The Company expects that the cumulative pretax charges, once all projects are approved and implemented, will relate to initiatives undertaken in North America (  15%  ), Europe (  20%  ), Latin America (  5%  ), Asia Pacific (  5%  ), Africa/Eurasia (  5%  ), Hill s Pet Nutrition (  10%  ) and Corporate (  40%  ), which includes substantially all of the costs related to the implementation of new strategies, noted above, on a global basis. The Company expects that, when it has been fully implemented, the Global Growth and Efficiency Program will have contributed a net reduction of approximately   3,800   to   4,400   positions from the Company s global employee workforce.   
    
  For the years ended December 31,   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , restructuring and related implementation charges are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income as follows:   

Restructuring and related implementation charges in the preceding table are recorded in the Corporate segment as these initiatives are predominantly centrally directed and controlled and are not included in internal measures of segment operating performance.  

37 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Total charges incurred for the Global Growth and Efficiency Program relate to initiatives undertaken by the following reportable operating segments: 

Since the inception of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program in the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company has incurred cumulative pretax charges of   $1,561   (  $1,153   aftertax) in connection with the implementation of various projects as follows:  

The majority of costs incurred since inception relate to the following projects: the implementation of the Company s overall hubbing strategy; the extension of shared business services and streamlining of global functions; the consolidation of facilities; the closing of the Morristown, New Jersey personal care facility; the simplification and streamlining of the Company s research and development capabilities and oral care supply chain, both in Europe; redesigning the European commercial organization; restructuring how the Company will provide future retirement benefits to substantially all of the U.S.-based employees participating in the Company s defined benefit retirement plan by shifting them to the Company s defined contribution plan; and the implementation of a Corporate efficiencies program. 

38 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

The following table summarizes the activity for the restructuring and related implementation charges, in the respective periods, discussed above and the related accruals: 

Employee-Related Costs primarily include severance and other termination benefits and are calculated based on long-standing benefit practices, local statutory requirements and, in certain cases, voluntary termination arrangements. Employee-Related Costs also include pension and other retiree benefit enhancements amounting to   $21  ,   $4   and   $17   for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, which are reflected as Charges against assets within Employee-Related Costs in the preceding table, as the corresponding balance sheet amounts are reflected as a reduction of pension assets or an increase in pension and other retiree benefit liabilities (see   Note 10  , Retirement Plans and Other Retiree Benefits to the Consolidated Financial Statements).  
    
  Incremental Depreciation is recorded to reflect changes in useful lives and estimated residual values for long-lived assets that will be taken out of service prior to the end of their normal service period. Asset Impairments are recorded to write down assets held for sale or disposal to their fair value based on amounts expected to be realized. Charges against assets within Asset Impairments are net of cash proceeds pertaining to the sale of certain assets. 
    
  Other charges consist primarily of charges resulting directly from exit activities and the implementation of new strategies as a result of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. These charges for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 include third-party incremental costs related to the development and implementation of new business and strategic initiatives of   $145  ,   $116   and   $65  , respectively, and contract termination costs and charges resulting directly from exit activities of   $6  ,   $21   and   $8  , respectively. These charges were expensed as incurred. Also included in Other charges for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 are other exit costs of   $0  ,   $1   and   $47  , respectively, related to the consolidation of facilities.  

39 

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
    
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K discusses certain financial measures on both a GAAP and a non-GAAP basis. The Company uses the non-GAAP financial measures described below internally in its budgeting process, to evaluate segment and overall operating performance and as a factor in determining compensation. The Company believes that these non-GAAP financial measures are useful in evaluating the Company s underlying business performance and trends; however, this information should be considered as supplemental in nature and is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for the related financial information prepared in accordance with GAAP. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures may not be the same as similar measures presented by other companies.  
    
  Net sales growth (GAAP) and organic sales growth (Net sales growth excluding, as applicable, the impact of foreign exchange, acquisitions, divestments and the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations) (non-GAAP) are discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Management believes the organic sales growth measure provides investors and analysts with useful supplemental information regarding the Company s underlying sales trends by presenting sales growth excluding, as applicable, the external factor of foreign exchange, as well as the impact of acquisitions, divestments and the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations. A reconciliation of organic sales growth to Net sales growth for the years ended   December 31, 2017   and   2016   is provided below. 
    
  Worldwide Gross profit, Gross profit margin, Selling, general and administrative expenses, Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of Net sales, Other (income) expense, net, Operating profit, Operating profit margin, effective income tax rate, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and Earnings per share on a diluted basis are discussed in this Annual Report on Form 10-K both on a GAAP basis and excluding, as applicable, charges resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, a charge related to U.S. tax reform, a gain on the sale of land in Mexico, charges or benefits from tax matters, charges for litigation matters, costs related to the sale of land in Mexico, a gain on the sale of the Company s South Pacific laundry detergent business, charges related to effective devaluations in Venezuela and a charge for the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations (non-GAAP). 
    
  These non-GAAP financial measures exclude items that, either by their nature or amount, management would not expect to occur as part of the Company s normal business on a regular basis, such as restructuring charges, charges for certain litigation and tax matters, gains and losses from certain divestitures and certain unusual, non-recurring items. Investors and analysts use these financial measures in assessing the Company s business performance, and management believes that presenting these financial measures on a non-GAAP basis provides them with useful supplemental information to enhance their understanding of the Company s underlying business performance and trends. These non-GAAP financial measures also enhance the ability to compare period-to-period financial results. A reconciliation of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures for the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015   is presented within the applicable section of Results of Operations. 

40 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

The following tables provide a quantitative reconciliation of Net sales growth to organic sales growth for each of the years ended   December 31, 2017   and   2016   versus the prior year: 

Market Share Information  
    
  Management uses market share information as a key indicator to monitor business health and performance. References to market share in this Annual Report on Form 10-K are based on a combination of consumption and market share data provided by third-party vendors, primarily Nielsen, and internal estimates. All market share references represent the percentage of the dollar value of sales of our products, relative to all product sales in the category in the countries in which the Company competes and purchases data (excluding Venezuela from all periods). 
  Market share data is subject to limitations on the availability of up-to-date information. The Company measures year-to-date market shares from January 1 of the relevant year through the most recent period for which market share data is available, which typically reflects a lag time of one or two months. We believe that the third-party vendors we use to provide data are reliable, but we have not verified the accuracy or completeness of the data or any assumptions underlying the data. In addition, market share information calculated by the Company may be different from market share information calculated by other companies due to differences in category definitions, the use of data from different countries, internal estimates and other factors. 

41 

(Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 
    
  The Company expects cash flow from operations and debt issuances will be sufficient to meet foreseeable business operating and recurring cash needs (including for debt service, dividends, capital expenditures, charges resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and stock repurchases). The Company believes its strong cash generation and financial position should continue to allow it broad access to global credit and capital markets. 
    
  Cash Flow 
    
  Net cash provided by operations was   $3,054   in   2017  , compared to   $3,141   in   2016   and   $2,949   in   2015  . Net cash provided by operations for   2017     decreased   as compared to 2016 primarily due to the timing of income tax payments. The increase in   2016   as compared to   2015   was due to strong operating earnings and the timing of income tax payments, partially offset by the impact of the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations effective December 31, 2015 and voluntary contributions to employee postretirement plans. 
    
  The Company defines working capital as the difference between current assets (excluding Cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities, the latter of which is reported in Other current assets) and current liabilities (excluding short-term debt). The Company s working capital as a percentage of Net sales increased to   (2.0)%   in   2017   as compared to   (2.2)%   in   2016  , reflecting the Company s continued tight focus on working capital.  
    
  Building on the Company s successful implementation of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, on October 26, 2017, the Board approved an expansion of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and an extension of the program through   December 31, 2019   to take advantage of additional opportunities to streamline the Company s operations. 
    
  Implementation of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program remains on track. Including the most recent expansion, total program charges resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program are estimated to be in the range of   $1,730   to   $1,885   (  $1,280   to   $1,380   aftertax). Approximately   80%   of total program charges resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program are expected to result in cash expenditures. Savings from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, substantially all of which are expected to increase future cash flows, are projected to be in the range of   $560   to   $635   pretax (  $500   to   $575   aftertax) annually, once all projects are approved and implemented. Savings achieved in 2017 were in line with the Company s previously disclosed estimate of $50 to $60 pretax ($40 to $50 aftertax). 
    
  The Company anticipates that pretax charges for   2018   will approximate   $100   to   $175   (  $75   to   $125   aftertax). The Company expects savings in   2018   to amount to approximately   $90   to   $120   pretax (  $100   to   $125   aftertax). It is anticipated that cash requirements for the Global Growth and Efficiency Program will be funded from operating cash flows. Approximately 75% of the restructuring accrual at   December 31, 2017   is expected to be paid before year-end   2018  . 
    
  Investing activities used   $471   of cash in   2017  , compared to   $499   and   $685   during   2016   and   2015  , respectively. Investing activities in 2017 include   $44   of proceeds from the sale of property and non-core product lines, primarily related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. Purchases of marketable securities and investments increased in   2017   to   $347   from   $336   in   2016  . Proceeds from the sale of marketable securities and investments increased in   2017   to   $391   from   $378   in   2016  .  

42 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

In September 2016, the Company s Mexican subsidiary completed the sale to the United States of America of the Mexico City site on which its commercial operations, technology center and soap production facility were previously located and received $  60   as the third and final installment of the sale price. The total sale price (including the   third   installment and the previously received   first   and   second   installments) was $  120  . The Company recognized a pretax gain of $  97   ($  63   aftertax gain) in the third quarter of 2016, net of costs primarily related to site preparation. 
    
  In August 2015, the Company completed the sale of its laundry detergent business in the South Pacific to Henkel AG   Co. KGaA for an aggregate purchase price of approximately   310   Australian dollars ($  221  ) and recorded a pretax gain of $  187   ($  120   aftertax or $  0.13   per diluted share). The gain is net of charges related to the right-sizing of the Company s South Pacific business, asset write-offs related to the divested laundry detergent business and other costs related to the sale.  
    
  Capital expenditures in   2017   were   $553  , a decrease from   $593   in   2016   and   $691   in   2015  . Capital expenditures decreased in   2017   primarily due to lower spending on capital projects in the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. Capital expenditures for 2018 are expected to be approximately 3.5% of Net sales. The Company continues to focus its capital spending on projects that are expected to yield high aftertax returns.  
    
  Financing activities used   $2,450   of cash during   2017   compared to   $2,233   and   $2,276   during   2016   and   2015  , respectively. The increase in cash used in   2017   as compared to   2016   was primarily due to lower net proceeds from the issuance of debt and higher purchases of treasury shares. The decrease in cash used in   2016   as compared to   2015   was primarily due to lower purchases of treasury shares and higher proceeds from the exercise of stock options and excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, partially offset by lower net proceeds from the issuance of debt. 
    
  Long-term debt, including the current portion, increased to   $6,566   as of   December 31, 2017  , as compared to   $6,520   as of   December 31, 2016   and total debt increased to   $6,577   as of   December 31, 2017   as compared to   $6,533   as of   December 31, 2016  . The Company s debt issuances support its capital structure strategy objectives of funding its business and growth initiatives while minimizing its risk-adjusted cost of capital. During the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company issued   $400   of   five  -year notes at a   fixed rate   of   2.25%  . During the third quarter of 2017, the Company issued $500 of thirty-year notes at a fixed rate of 3.70%. The debt issuances in 2017 were under the Company s shelf registration statement. Proceeds from the debt issuances in 2017 were used for general corporate purposes, which included the retirement of commercial paper borrowings. 
    
  At   December 31, 2017  , the Company had access to unused domestic and foreign lines of credit of   $2,949   (including under the facilities discussed below) and could also issue medium-term notes pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement. In November 2011, the Company entered into a five-year revolving credit facility with a capacity of $  1,850   with a syndicate of banks. This facility was extended for an additional year in 2012 and again in 2013. In 2014, the Company entered into an amendment of this facility whereby the facility was extended for an additional year to November 2019 and the capacity of the facility was increased to   $2,370  . In 2016, the facility was extended for an additional year to   November 2020  . The Company also has the ability to draw   $165   from a revolving credit facility that expires in   November 2018  .  Commitment fees related to the credit facilities are not material. 
    
  Domestic and foreign commercial paper outstanding was   $24   and   $295   as of   December 31, 2017   and   December 31, 2016  , respectively. The average daily balances outstanding of commercial paper in   2017   and   2016   were $1,606 and $1,642, respectively. The Company classifies commercial paper and certain current maturities of notes payable as long-term debt when it has the intent and ability to refinance such obligations on a long-term basis, including, if necessary, by utilizing its line of credit that expires in   November 2020  . 

43 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

The following is a summary of the Company s commercial paper and global short-term borrowings as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  : 

Certain of the agreements with respect to the Company s bank borrowings contain financial and other covenants as well as cross-default provisions. Noncompliance with these requirements could ultimately result in the acceleration of amounts owed. The Company is in full compliance with all such requirements and believes the likelihood of noncompliance is remote. See   Note 6  , Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information about the Company s long-term debt and credit facilities. 
    
  Dividend payments in   2017   were   $1,529  , an increase from   $1,508   in   2016   and   $1,493   in   2015  . Dividend payments increased to $  1.59   per share in   2017   from   $1.55   per share in   2016   and $1.50 per share in   2015  . In the first quarter of   2017  , the Company s Board increased the quarterly common stock cash dividend to $0.40 per share from $0.39 per share, effective in the second quarter of   2017  .  
    
  The Company repurchases shares of its common stock in the open market and in private transactions to maintain its targeted capital structure and to fulfill certain requirements of its compensation and benefit plans. On February 19, 2015, the Board authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company s common stock having an aggregate purchase price of up to $5,000 under the 2015 Program, which replaced the previous program approved by the Board in 2011 (the  2011 Program ). The Company commenced repurchase of shares of the Company s common stock under the 2015 Program beginning February 19, 2015. The Board also has authorized share repurchases on an ongoing basis to fulfill certain requirements of the Company s compensation and benefit programs. 
    
  Aggregate share repurchases in   2017   consisted of 18.3 million common shares under the 2015 Program and 0.9 million common shares to fulfill the requirements of compensation and benefit plans, for a total purchase price of $  1,399  . Aggregate repurchases in   2016   consisted of 18.3 million common shares under the 2015 Program and 1.0 million common shares to fulfill the requirements of compensation and benefit plans, for a total purchase price of $  1,335  . Aggregate repurchases in 2015 consisted of 19.9 million common shares under the 2015 Program, 1.7 million common shares under the 2011 Program and 1.2 million common shares to fulfill the requirements of compensation and benefit plans, for a total purchase price of $1,551.  
    
  Cash and cash equivalents increased   $220   during   2017   to   $1,535   at   December 31, 2017  , compared to   $1,315   at   December 31, 2016  , most of which ($1,467 and $1,273, respectively) were held by the Company s foreign subsidiaries.  
    
  On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted, which, among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% and established a modified territorial system requiring a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Beginning in 2018, U.S. tax reform also requires a minimum tax on certain future earnings generated by foreign subsidiaries while providing for future tax-free repatriation of such earnings through a 100% dividends-received deduction.  
  As a result of the lower U.S. corporate income tax rate, the Company expects a reduction in its future tax payments. For more information regarding the impact of U.S. tax reform on the Company, refer to  Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates  below and Note 11, Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

44 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

In order to fully utilize a $210 U.S. income tax benefit in 2016 principally related to changes in Venezuela s foreign exchange regime, during the quarter ended March 31, 2016, the Company decided to repatriate in 2016 $1,500 of earnings of foreign subsidiaries it previously considered indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S., and accordingly, recorded a tax charge of $210 during the first quarter of 2016.  
    
  The following represents the scheduled maturities of the Company s contractual obligations as of   December 31, 2017  : 

_______ 
            (1)   
    The Company classifies commercial paper and notes maturing within the next 12 months as long-term debt when it has the intent and ability to refinance such obligations on a long-term basis. The amounts in this table exclude such obligations. 
               (2)   
    Includes the net interest payments on fixed and variable rate debt and associated interest rate swaps. Interest payments associated with floating rate instruments are based on management s best estimate of projected interest rates for the remaining term of variable rate debt. 
               (3)   
    The Company had outstanding contractual obligations with suppliers at the end of   2017   for the purchase of raw, packaging and other materials and services in the normal course of business. These purchase obligation amounts represent only those items which are based on agreements that are legally binding and that specify all significant terms including minimum quantity, price and term and do not represent total anticipated purchases. Additionally, purchase obligations include the aggregate purchase price for two acquisitions completed in the first quarter of 2018. See Note 3, Acquisitions and Divestitures to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information.      
       
  Long-term liabilities associated with the Company s postretirement plans are excluded from the table above due to the uncertainty of the timing of these cash disbursements. The amount and timing of cash funding related to these benefit plans will generally depend on local regulatory requirements, various economic assumptions (the most significant of which are detailed in  Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates  below) and voluntary Company contributions. Based on current information, the Company is not required to make a mandatory contribution to its qualified U.S. pension plan in   2018  . Management s best estimate of voluntary contributions the Company will make to its U.S. postretirement plans for the year ending December 31,   2018   is approximately   $75  . In addition, total benefit payments to be paid to participants for the year ending   December 31, 2018   from the Company s assets are estimated to be approximately   $82  . 
    
  Additionally, liabilities for unrecognized income tax benefits are excluded from the table above as the Company is unable to reasonably predict the ultimate amount or timing of a settlement of such liabilities. See   Note 11  , Income Taxes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for more information. 
    
  As more fully described in Part I, Item 3      Legal Proceedings      and   Note 13  , Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company has commitments and contingencies with respect to lawsuits, environmental matters, taxes and other matters arising in the ordinary course of business. 

Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
    
  The Company does not have off-balance sheet financing or unconsolidated special purpose entities. 

45 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Managing Foreign Currency, Interest Rate, Commodity Price and Credit Risk Exposure 
    
  The Company is exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity price fluctuations. Volatility relating to these exposures is managed on a global basis by utilizing a number of techniques, including working capital management, selling price increases, selective borrowings in local currencies and entering into selective derivative instrument transactions, issued with standard features, in accordance with the Company s treasury and risk management policies. The Company s treasury and risk management policies prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes and leveraged derivatives for any purpose. 
    
  The sensitivity of our financial instruments to market fluctuations is discussed below. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Note 7, Fair Value Measurements and Financial Instruments to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of derivatives and hedging policies and fair value measurements. 
    
  Foreign Exchange Risk 
    
  As the Company markets its products in over 200 countries and territories, it is exposed to currency fluctuations related to manufacturing and selling its products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Company manages its foreign currency exposures through a combination of cost-containment measures, sourcing strategies, selling price increases and the hedging of certain costs in an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate movements. See the  Results of Operations  section above for discussion of the foreign exchange impact on Net sales in each operating segment. 
    
  The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates with resulting translation gains and losses accumulated in a separate component of shareholders  equity. Income and expense items are translated into U.S. dollars at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. 
    
  Prior to the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations, which was effective December 31, 2015, the functional currency for CP Venezuela was the U.S. dollar since Venezuela was designated as hyper-inflationary, and Venezuelan currency fluctuations were reported in income. The local currency-denominated non-monetary assets of the Venezuelan operations, including inventories and property, plant and equipment were remeasured at their historical exchange rates, while local currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities were remeasured at period-end exchange rates. Remeasurement adjustments for these operations were included in Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company. Refer to  Significant Items Impacting Comparability  above and to Note 14, Venezuela to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company s Venezuelan operations.  
    
  The Company primarily utilizes foreign currency contracts, including forward and swap contracts, option contracts, foreign and local currency deposits and local currency borrowings to hedge portions of its exposures relating to foreign currency purchases, assets and liabilities created in the normal course of business and the net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. The duration of foreign currency contracts generally does not exceed 12 months and the contracts are valued using observable market rates. 
    
  The Company s foreign currency forward contracts that qualify for cash flow hedge accounting resulted in a net unrealized loss of $9 and a net unrealized gain of $20 at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. Changes in the fair value of cash flow hedges are recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss) and are reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the underlying hedged transaction is recognized in earnings. At the end of   2017  , an unfavorable 10% change in exchange rates would have resulted in a net unrealized loss of $79. 

46 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Interest Rate Risk 
    
  The Company manages its mix of fixed and floating rate debt against its target with debt issuances and by entering into interest rate swaps in order to mitigate fluctuations in earnings and cash flows that may result from interest rate volatility. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps generally match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt, and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates. 
    
  Based on year-end   2017   variable rate debt levels, a 1% increase in interest rates would have increased Interest (income) expense, net by $7 in   2017  . 
    
  Commodity Price Risk 
    
  The Company is exposed to price volatility related to raw materials used in production, such as   resins, pulp, essential oils, tropical oils, tallow, poultry, corn and soybeans  . The Company manages its raw material exposures through a combination of cost containment measures, ongoing productivity initiatives and the limited use of commodity hedging contracts. Futures contracts are used on a limited basis, primarily in the Hill     s Pet Nutrition segment, to manage volatility related to anticipated raw material inventory purchases of certain traded commodities. 
    
  At   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , the Company s open commodity derivative contracts, which qualify for cash flow hedge accounting, were not material and would not have resulted in a material net unrealized loss at December 31, 2017 had there been an unfavorable 10% change in commodity futures prices. 
    
  Credit Risk 
    
  The Company is exposed to the risk of credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to financial instrument contracts; however, nonperformance is considered unlikely and any nonperformance is unlikely to be material as it is the Company s policy to contract with diverse, credit-worthy counterparties based upon both strong credit ratings and other credit considerations.  

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
    
  On August 28, 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2017-12,  Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities,  amending the eligibility criteria for hedged items and transactions to expand an entity s ability to hedge nonfinancial and financial risk components. The new guidance eliminates the requirement to separately measure and present hedge ineffectiveness and aligns the presentation of hedge gains and losses with the underlying hedge item. The new guidance also simplifies the hedge documentation and hedge effectiveness assessment requirements. The new guidance is effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The amended presentation and disclosure requirements must be adopted on a prospective basis, while any amendments to cash flow and net investment hedge relationships that exist on the date of adoption must be applied on a  modified retrospective  basis, meaning a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of the beginning of the year of adoption. While the Company is currently assessing the impact of the new standard, this new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  On May 10, 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09,  Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting,  clarifying when a change to the terms or conditions of a stock-based payment award must be accounted for as a modification. The new guidance requires modification accounting if the fair value, vesting condition or the classification of the award is not the same immediately before and after a change to the terms and conditions of the award. The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018. This new guidance is not expected to have an impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted. 

47 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

On March 10, 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07,  Compensation Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost,  changing the presentation of the net periodic benefit cost on the Statement of Income and limiting the amount of net periodic benefit cost eligible for capitalization to assets. The new guidance permits only the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost to be eligible for capitalization. The new guidance also requires entities to present the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost together with compensation costs arising from services rendered by employees during the period. Other components of net periodic benefit cost, which include interest, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service costs and actuarial gains and losses, are required to be presented outside of Operating profit. The line item or items used to present the other components of net periodic benefit cost must be disclosed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, if not separately described on the Statement of Income. The new presentation requirement is required to be adopted on a  full retrospective  basis, meaning the standard is applied to all of the periods presented in the financial statements, while the limitation on capitalization can only be adopted on a prospective basis. The new guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2018. Had the standard been effective for the year ended December 31, 2017, full year Operating profit would have increased by approximately $120 with no impact on Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company. The Company anticipates that in future years, as a result of the reclassification, Operating profit will increase by approximately $100 annually with no impact on Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company. 
    
  On January 26, 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04,  Intangibles Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment,  eliminating the requirement to calculate the implied fair value, essentially eliminating step two from the goodwill impairment test. The new standard requires goodwill impairment to be based upon the results of step one of the impairment test, which is defined as the excess of the carrying value of a reporting unit over its fair value. The impairment charge will be limited to the amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. The standard is effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted. This new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  On January 5, 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01,  Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business,  which provides additional guidance on evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions of assets or businesses. The guidance requires an entity to evaluate if substantially all of the fair value of the assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. If this threshold is met, the new guidance would define this as an asset acquisition; otherwise, the entity then evaluates whether the asset meets the requirement that a business include, at a minimum, an input and substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. The guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018. This new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  On October 24, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16,  Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory,  which eliminates the requirement to defer recognition of income taxes on intra-entity asset transfers until the asset is sold to an outside party. The new guidance requires the recognition of current and deferred income taxes on intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory, such as intellectual property and property, plant and equipment, when the transfer occurs. As permitted, the Company early-adopted the new standard on a  modified retrospective  basis, meaning the standard was applied only to the most recent period presented in the financial statements, as of January 1, 2017. This new guidance did not have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  On August 26, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15,  Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments,  which clarifies how certain cash receipts and payments are to be presented in the statement of cash flows. The guidance was effective for the Company on January 1, 2018. This new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 

48 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

On March 30, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09,  Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting,  which amended accounting for income taxes related to stock-based compensation, the related classification in the statement of cash flows and share award forfeiture accounting. The new guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2017. As required subsequent to the adoption of this new guidance, the Company recognized excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of   $47   (resulting from an increase in the fair value of an award from grant date to the vesting or exercise date, as applicable) in the Provision for income taxes as a discrete item during the year ended December 31, 2017. These amounts may not necessarily be indicative of future amounts that may be recognized as any excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation recognized would be dependent on future stock price, employee exercise behavior and applicable tax rates. Prior to January 1, 2017, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation were recognized in equity. As permitted, the Company elected to classify these excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation as an operating activity in the Statement of Cash Flows instead of as a financing activity on a prospective basis and did not retrospectively adjust prior periods. Also, as permitted by the new standard, the Company elected to account for forfeitures as they occur. 
    
  On March 15, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-07,  Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Simplifying the Transition to the Equity Method of Accounting,  which eliminated the requirement to retroactively adjust an investment that subsequently qualifies for equity method accounting (as a result of an increase in level of ownership interest or degree of influence) as if the equity method of accounting had been applied during all prior periods that the investment was held. The new standard requires that the investor add the cost of acquiring additional ownership interest in the investee to its current basis and prospectively apply the equity method of accounting. For an available-for-sale investment, any unrealized gains or losses should be recognized in earnings at the date the investment qualifies as an equity method investment. The new guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2017, and did not have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued its final standard on lease accounting, ASU No. 2016-02,  Leases (Topic 842),  which supersedes Topic 840,  Leases.  The new accounting standard requires the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for all long-term leases, including operating leases, on the balance sheet. The new standard also provides additional guidance on the measurement of the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities and will require enhanced disclosures about the Company s leasing arrangements. Under current accounting standards, substantially all of the Company s leases are considered operating leases and, as such, are not recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. This new standard is effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The standard requires a  modified retrospective  adoption, meaning the standard is applied to leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. The Company is currently assessing the impact of the new standard on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  On January 5, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01,  Financial Instruments Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.  The updated guidance enhances the reporting model for financial instruments, which includes amendments to address aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure. The amendment to the standard was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2018 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.  
    
  On July 22, 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11,  Inventory (Topic 330): Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory,  which simplifies the subsequent measurement of inventories by replacing the lower of cost or market test with a lower of cost and net realizable value test. The guidance applies only to inventories for which cost is determined by methods other than last-in, first-out ( LIFO ) and the retail inventory method. The new guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2017. This new guidance did not have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 

49 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

On May 28, 2014, the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board issued their final converged standard on revenue recognition. The standard, issued as ASU No. 2014-09,  Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)  by the FASB, provides a comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers and supersedes current revenue recognition guidance. The revenue standard contains principles that an entity will apply to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized. The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to its customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard also includes enhanced disclosures. During 2016, the FASB issued several accounting updates (ASU No. 2016-08, 2016-10 and 2016-12) to clarify implementation guidance and correct unintended application of the guidance. The standard allows for either full retrospective adoption or modified retrospective adoption. The Company adopted the new standard on January 1, 2018, on a  modified retrospective  basis, which did not have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. Although the new standard resulted in changes to the Company s revenue recognition accounting policy commencing on January 1, 2018, the Company does not expect it will have a material impact in future periods on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates 
    
  The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to use judgment and make estimates. The level of uncertainty in estimates and assumptions increases with the length of time until the underlying transactions are completed. Actual results could ultimately differ from those estimates. The accounting policies that are most critical in the preparation of the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements are those that are both important to the presentation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and require significant or complex judgments and estimates on the part of management. The Company s critical accounting policies are reviewed periodically with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. 
    
  In certain instances, accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America allow for the selection of alternative accounting methods. The Company s significant policies that involve the selection of alternative methods are accounting for shipping and handling costs and inventories. 

Shipping and handling costs may be reported as either a component of Cost of sales or Selling, general and administrative expenses. The Company reports such costs, primarily related to warehousing and outbound freight, in the Consolidated Statements of Income as a component of Selling, general and administrative expenses. Accordingly, the Company s Gross profit margin is not comparable with the gross profit margin of those companies that include shipping and handling charges in cost of sales. If such costs had been included in Cost of sales, Gross profit margin would have decreased by 760 bps, from   60.0%   to 52.4% in   2017   and decreased by 750 bps in   2016   and   2015  , respectively, with no impact on reported earnings. 

The Company accounts for inventories using both the first-in, first-out (     FIFO     ) method (  75%   of inventories) and the LIFO method (  25%   of inventories). There would have been no material impact on reported earnings for   2017  ,   2016   or   2015   had all inventories been accounted for under the FIFO method. 

50 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

The areas of accounting that involve significant or complex judgments and estimates are pensions and other retiree benefit cost assumptions, stock-based compensation, asset impairments, uncertain tax positions, tax valuation allowances,  the provisional charge in 2017 related to U.S. tax reform, legal and other contingency reserves and, prior to the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations, the selection of the exchange rate used to remeasure the financial statements of CP Venezuela. 

In pension accounting, the most significant actuarial assumptions are the discount rate and the long-term rate of return on plan assets. The discount rate used to measure the benefit obligation for U.S. defined benefit plans was   3.73%  , 4.27% and 4.93% as of December 31,   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. The discount rate used to measure the benefit obligation for other U.S. postretirement plans was   3.80%  , 4.41% and 4.97% as of December 31,   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. Discount rates used for the U.S. and international defined benefit and other postretirement plans are based on a yield curve constructed from a portfolio of high-quality bonds whose projected cash flows approximate the projected benefit payments of the plans. The assumed long-term rate of return on plan assets for U.S. plans was   6.60%   as of December 31,   2017   and   6.80%   as of December   2016   and   2015  . In determining the long-term rate of return, the Company considers the nature of the plans  investments and the historical rate of return. 
       
  Average annual rates of return for the U.S. plans for the most recent 1-year, 5-year, 10-year, 15-year and 25-year periods were   14%  ,   8%  ,   6%  ,   8%   and   8%  , respectively. In addition, the current assumed rate of return for the U.S. plans is based upon the nature of the plans  investments with a target asset allocation of approximately   53  % in fixed income securities,   27%   in equity securities and   20  % in real estate and other investments. A 1% change in the assumed rate of return on plan assets of the U.S. pension plans would impact future Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company by approximately $14. A 1% change in the discount rate for the U.S. pension plans would impact future Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company by approximately $2. A third assumption is the long-term rate of compensation increase, a change in which would partially offset the impact of a change in either the discount rate or the long-term rate of return. This rate was   3.50%   as of   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015  . Refer to Note 10, Retirement Plans and Other Retiree Benefits to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company s pension and other postretirement plans. 

The assumption requiring the most judgment in accounting for other postretirement benefits is the medical cost trend rate. The Company reviews external data and its own historical trends for health care costs to determine the medical cost trend rate. The assumed rate of increase for the U.S. postretirement benefit plans is   6.00%   for   2018  , declining to   4.75%   by   2023   and remaining at   4.75%   for the years thereafter. The effect on the total of service and interest cost components of a 1% increase in the assumed long-term medical cost trend rate would decrease Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company by $7. 

The Company recognizes the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, such as stock options and restricted stock units, based on the fair value of those awards at the date of grant. The Company uses the Black-Scholes-Merton (     Black-Scholes     ) option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock option awards. The weighted-average estimated fair value of each stock option award granted in the year ended   December 31, 2017   was $  8.37  . The Black-Scholes model uses various assumptions to determine the fair value of stock option awards. These assumptions include the expected term of stock option awards, expected volatility rate, risk-free interest rate and expected dividend yield. While these assumptions do not require significant judgment, as the significant inputs are determined from historical experience or independent third-party sources, changes in these inputs could result in significant changes in the fair value of stock option awards. A one-year change in expected term would result in a change in fair value of approximately 7%. A 1% change in volatility would change fair value by approximately 7%. 

51 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, such as the Company s global brands, are subject to impairment tests at least annually. The Company performs either a quantitative or qualitative assessment to determine the fair value of its reporting units for goodwill and fair value of its indefinite life intangible assets. The asset impairment analysis is generally performed using an income method, which requires several estimates, including future cash flows consistent with management s strategic plans, sales growth rates, foreign exchange rates and the selection of a discount rate. For the Company s goodwill impairment analysis, fair value is also determined using the market approach, which is generally derived from metrics of comparable publicly traded companies. When multiple valuation methodologies are used in a reporting unit s goodwill impairment analysis, the Company performs a qualitative analysis comparing the fair value of a reporting unit under each method to assess its reasonableness and ensure consistency of results. Other qualitative factors the Company considers, in addition to those quantitative measures discussed above, include assessments of general macroeconomic conditions, industry-specific considerations and historical financial performance. 
       
  The estimated fair value of the Company s intangible assets substantially exceeds the recorded carrying value, except for the intangible assets acquired in the Sanex acquisition in 2011, which were recorded at fair value. The estimated fair value of the Company s reporting units also substantially exceeds the recorded carrying value. Therefore, it is not reasonably likely that significant changes in these estimates would occur that would result in an impairment charge related to these assets.  
    
  The Company applies the  relief from royalty method  to estimate the fair value of the intangible assets acquired in the Sanex acquisition (the  Sanex intangible assets ). Under this method, the fair value of an intangible asset is calculated as the present value of future royalty savings generated as a result of owning the intangible asset. The key assumptions used in determining the Company s estimate of the fair value of the Sanex intangible assets include royalty rates, discount rates and long-term revenue growth rates. Estimating long-term revenue growth rates requires significant judgment by management in areas such as future economic conditions, product pricing and consumer tastes and preferences. In determining an appropriate discount rate, the Company considers the current interest rate environment and its estimated cost of capital. As a result of the analysis, the Company determined that the fair value of the Sanex intangible assets exceeded their carrying value by more than 10% and concluded that such excess was reasonable considering the brand s relatively recent acquisition. Based on this, the brand s recent performance and the Company s future plans for it, the Company does not believe there is a significant risk of impairment related to the Sanex intangible assets. 
    
  Asset impairment analysis related to certain fixed assets in connection with the Global Growth and Efficiency Program requires management s best estimate of net realizable values.  

On December 22, 2017, the TCJA was enacted, which, among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% and established a modified territorial system requiring a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries.  U.S. tax reform also requires a minimum tax on certain future earnings generated by foreign subsidiaries while providing for future tax-free repatriation of such earnings through a 100% dividends-received deduction.  
       
  In accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes, and Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, the Company recorded a provisional charge of   $275   based on its initial analysis of the TCJA using available information and estimates. The provisional charge is comprised of $451 related to the one-time deemed repatriation of accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries and related withholding taxes and $20 related primarily to the remeasurement of net deferred tax assets as a result of the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, which are offset by $196 of income taxes which had been previously provided for planned repatriations of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. As a result, applicable U.S. and foreign taxes have been provided on substantially all of the Company s accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries previously considered indefinitely reinvested. 
    
  Given the significant complexity of the TCJA, anticipated guidance from the U.S. Treasury about implementing the TCJA and the potential for additional guidance from the SEC or the FASB related to the TCJA or additional information becoming available, the Company s provisional charge may be adjusted during 2018 and is expected to be finalized no later than the fourth quarter of 2018. Other provisions of the TCJA that impact future tax years are still being assessed.   

52 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

The recognition and measurement of uncertain tax positions involves consideration of the amounts and probabilities of various outcomes that could be realized upon ultimate resolution. 

Tax valuation allowances are established to reduce deferred tax assets, such as tax loss carryforwards, to net realizable value. Factors considered in estimating net realizable value include historical results by tax jurisdiction, carryforward periods, income tax strategies and forecasted taxable income. 

Legal and other contingency reserves are based on management s assessment of the risk of potential loss, which includes consultation with outside legal counsel and other advisors. Such assessments are reviewed each period and revised based on current facts and circumstances, if necessary. While it is possible that the Company s cash flows and results of operations in a particular quarter or year could be materially affected by the impact of such contingencies, based on current knowledge it is the opinion of management that these matters will not have a material effect on the Company s financial position, or its ongoing results of operations or cash flows. Refer to Note 13, Commitments and Contingencies to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company s contingencies. 

Prior to the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations, the selection of the exchange rate used to remeasure the financial statements of CP Venezuela required careful consideration by management given the various currency exchange mechanisms that exist in Venezuela. Although access to U.S. dollars in Venezuela had been challenging, because the majority of the products in CP Venezuela s portfolio were designated as  essential  by the Venezuelan government, historically CP Venezuela s access to U.S. dollars at the official rate of 6.30 bolivares per dollar was generally sufficient to settle most of its U.S. dollar obligations for imported materials. However, the Company believed this rate was not applicable to foreign investments and could not be used to pay dividends. The Company also gave consideration to using the SIMADI rate to remeasure the financial statements of CP Venezuela; however, CP Venezuela did not participate in the SIMADI market through December 31, 2015 and had no intention to do so. As a result, the Company remeasured the financial statements of CP Venezuela at the rate at which it believed was applicable for the remittance of future dividends which, based on the advice of legal counsel, was the SICAD rate. 
       
  Refer to  Significant Items Impacting Comparability  above and to Note 14, Venezuela to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the Company s Venezuelan operations. 
    
  The Company generates revenue through the sale of well-known consumer products to trade customers under established trading terms. While the recognition of revenue and receivables requires the use of estimates, there is a short time frame (typically less than 60 days) between the shipment of product and cash receipt, thereby reducing the level of uncertainty in these estimates. Refer to Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further description of the Company s significant accounting policies. 
  
    53 

    (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

Cautionary Statement on Forward-Looking Statements 
    
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K may contain forward-looking statements as that term is defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 or by the SEC in its rules, regulations and releases that set forth anticipated results based on management s current plans and assumptions. Such statements may relate, for example, to sales or volume growth, organic sales growth, profit or profit margin growth, earnings per share growth, financial goals, the impact of foreign exchange volatility, cost-reduction plans including the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, tax rates, U.S. tax reform, new product introductions, commercial investment levels, acquisitions and divestitures, or legal or tax proceedings, among other matters. These statements are made on the basis of the Company s views and assumptions as of this time and the Company undertakes no obligation to update these statements whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law or by the rules and regulations of the SEC. Moreover, the Company does not, nor does any other person, assume responsibility for the accuracy and completeness of those statements. The Company cautions investors that any such forward-looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and that actual events or results may differ materially from those statements. Actual events or results may differ materially because of factors that affect international businesses and global economic conditions, as well as matters specific to the Company and the markets it serves, including the uncertain economic environment in different countries and its effect on consumer spending habits, increased competition and evolving competitive practices, foreign currency rate fluctuations, exchange controls, price or profit controls, labor relations, changes in foreign or domestic laws, or regulations or their interpretation, political and fiscal developments, including changes in trade, tax and immigration policies, disruptions in global supply chain, the availability and cost of raw and packaging materials, the ability to maintain or increase selling prices as needed, the ability to implement the Global Growth and Efficiency Program as planned or differences between the actual and the estimated costs or savings under such program, changes in the policies of retail trade customers, the emergence of new sales channels, the growth of e-commerce, the ability to continue lowering costs, the ability to complete acquisitions and divestitures as planned, the ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, and the uncertainty of the outcome of legal proceedings, whether or not the Company believes they have merit. For information about these and other factors that could impact the Company s business and cause actual results to differ materially from forward-looking statements, refer to Part I, Item 1A  Risk Factors.  

ITEM 7A.    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
    
  See  Managing Foreign Currency, Interest Rate, Commodity Price and Credit Risk Exposure  in Part II, Item 7. 

54 

ITEM 8.    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
    
  See  Index to Financial Statements.  

ITEM 9. 
    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
       
  None. 

ITEM 9A.    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
    
  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
    
  The Company s management, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, carried out an evaluation of the effectiveness of the design and operation of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures as of   December 31, 2017   (the      Evaluation     ). Based upon the Evaluation, the Company s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) are effective. 
    
  Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
    
  The Company s management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Management, under the supervision and with the participation of the Company s Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the Company s internal control over financial reporting based upon the framework in Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and concluded that it is effective as of   December 31, 2017  .  
    
  The Company s independent registered public accounting firm, PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, has audited the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2017  , and has expressed an unqualified opinion in their report, which appears under      Index to Financial Statements   Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.    
    
  Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
    
  There were no changes in the Company s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the Company s most recent fiscal quarter that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting. As part of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, the Company is implementing a shared business service organization model in all regions of the world. At this time, certain financial transaction processing activities have been transitioned to these shared business service centers. This transition has not materially affected the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  

ITEM 9B.    OTHER INFORMATION 
    
  None. 

55 

PART III 
    
  ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
    
  See  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I, Item 1 of this report. 
    
  Additional information required by this Item relating to directors, executive officers and corporate governance of the Company and information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act is incorporated herein by reference to the Company s Proxy Statement for its 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the  2018 Proxy Statement ). 
    
  Code of Ethics 
    
  The Company s Code of Conduct promotes the highest ethical standards in all of the Company s business dealings. The Code of Conduct satisfies the SEC s requirements for a Code of Ethics for senior financial officers and applies to all Company employees, including the Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer and the Vice President and Corporate Controller, and the Company s directors. The Code of Conduct is available on the Company s website at   www.colgatepalmolive.com  . Any amendment to the Code of Conduct will promptly be posted on the Company s website. It is the Company s policy not to grant waivers of the Code of Conduct. In the extremely unlikely event that the Company grants an executive officer a waiver from a provision of the Code of Conduct, the Company will promptly disclose such information by posting it on its website or by using other appropriate means in accordance with SEC rules. 

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
    
  The information regarding executive compensation set forth in the 2018 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. 

56 

ITEM 12. 
    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
       
           (a) 
    The information regarding security ownership of certain beneficial owners and management set forth in the 2018 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (b) 
    The registrant does not know of any arrangements that may at a subsequent date result in a change in control of the registrant. 

(a) 
      
    (b) 
      
    (c) 
      
      Plan Category 
      
    Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options, warrants and rights 
  (in thousands) 
      
    Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options, warrants and rights 
      
    Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) 
  (in thousands) 
      
      Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 
      
    43,709 
      
     (1)   
    $ 
    60.94 
      
     (2)   
    30,867 
      
     (3)   
      Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 
      
    Not applicable 

Not applicable 

Not applicable 

Total 
      
    43,709 

$ 
    60.94 

30,867 

_______ 
            (1)   
    Consists of   40,979   options outstanding and   2,730   restricted stock units awarded but not yet vested under the Company s 2013 Incentive Compensation Plan, as more fully described in   Note 8  , Capital Stock and Stock-Based Compensation Plans to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
               (2)   
    Includes the weighted-average exercise price of stock options outstanding of $  65.00   and restricted stock units of $0.00. 

ITEM 13. 
    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
       
  The information regarding certain relationships and related transactions and director independence set forth in the 2018 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. 

ITEM 14.    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 
    
  The information regarding auditor fees and services set forth in the 2018 Proxy Statement is incorporated herein by reference. 

57 

PART IV 
    
  ITEM 15.    EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
    
           (a) 
    Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules 
       
  See  Index to Financial Statements.  
    
           (b) 
    Exhibits: 

Exhibit No. 
    Description 

3-A 
      
     Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 3-A to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2008, File No. 1-644.)  

3-B 
      
     By-laws, as amended. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 3.1 to its Current Report on Form 8-K filed on January 15, 2016, File No. 1-644.)  

4 
    a) 
    Indenture, dated as of November 15, 1992, between the Company and The Bank of New York Mellon (formerly known as The Bank of New York) as Trustee. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 4.1 to its Registration Statement on Form S-3 and Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 filed on June 26, 1992, Registration No. 33-48840.)* 

b) 
     Colgate-Palmolive Company Employee Stock Ownership Trust Agreement dated as of June 1, 1989, as amended. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 4-B (b) to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2000, File No. 1-644.)  

10-A 
    a) 
     Colgate-Palmolive Company 2013 Incentive Compensation Plan. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Annex B to its 2013 Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, File No. 1-644.)  

b) 
     Form of Nonqualified Option Award Agreement used in connection with grants under the 2013 Incentive Compensation Plan.**  

c) 
     Form of Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement used in connection with grants under the 2013 Incentive Compensation Plan.**  

10-B 
    a) 
     Colgate-Palmolive Company 2009 Executive Incentive Compensation Plan. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Appendix A to its 2009 Notice of Meeting and Proxy Statement, File No. 1-644.)  

b) 
    Colgate-Palmolive Company Executive Incentive Compensation Plan Trust, as amended. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-B (b) to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987, File No. 1-644.) 

c) 
     Amendment, dated as of October 29, 2007, to the Colgate-Palmolive Company Executive Incentive Compensation Plan Trust. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-A (b) to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, File No. 1-644.)  

d) 
     Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement used in connection with grants to employees under the 2009 Colgate-Palmolive Company Executive Incentive Compensation Plan.  (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-P to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, File No. 1-644.)  

58 

Exhibit No. 
    Description 

10-C 
      
     Colgate-Palmolive Company Supplemental Salaried Employees  Retirement Plan, amended and restated as of September 27, 2017. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-A to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, File No. 1-644.)  

10-D 
    a) 
     Colgate-Palmolive Company Executive Severance Plan, as amended and restated through September 12, 2013. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-A to its Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 16, 2013, File No. 1-644.)  

b) 
    Colgate-Palmolive Company Executive Severance Plan Trust. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-E (b) to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987, File No. 1-644.) 

10-E 
      
     Colgate-Palmolive Company Pension Plan for Outside Directors, as amended and restated. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-D to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999, File No. 1-644.)  

10-F 
    a) 
     Colgate-Palmolive Company Restated and Amended Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as amended. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-H to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997, File No. 1-644.)  

b) 
     Amendment, dated as of September 12, 2007, to the Colgate-Palmolive Company Restated and Amended Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-F to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, File No. 1-644.)  

10-G 
      
     Colgate-Palmolive Company Deferred Compensation Plan, amended and restated as of September 12, 2007. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-G to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, File No. 1-644.)  

10-H 
      
     Colgate-Palmolive Company Above and Beyond Plan   Officer Level. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-A to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004, File No. 1-644.)  

10-I 
    a) 
     Five Year Credit Agreement dated as of November 4, 2011, Amended and Restated as of July 27, 2015 by Amendment Number 2 thereto (the  Amended and Restated Credit Agreement ), among Colgate-Palmolive Company as Borrower, Citibank, N.A. as Administrative Agent and the Lenders party thereto. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10 to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2015, File No. 1-644.)  

b) 
     Amendment No. 1 dated as of November 4, 2016 to the Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, among Colgate-Palmolive Company, as Borrower, Citibank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, and the Lenders party thereto. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-I (b) to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, File No. 1-644.)  

10-J 
    a) 
     Colgate-Palmolive Company Supplemental Savings and Investment Plan, amended and restated as of September 1, 2010. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-B to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2010, File No. 1-644.)  

b) 
     Amendment, dated September 27, 2017, to the Colgate-Palmolive Company Supplemental Savings and Investment Plan (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-B to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2017, File No. 1-644.)  

10-K 
      
     Form of Indemnification Agreement between Colgate-Palmolive Company and its directors, executive officers and certain key employees.**  

59 

Exhibit No. 
    Description 

10-L 
    a) 
     Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Appendix C to its 2005 Notice of Meeting and Proxy Statement.)  

b) 
     Form of Award Agreement used in connection with grants to non-employee directors under the Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-B to its Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 4, 2005, File No. 1-644.)  

c) 
     Amendment, dated as of September 7, 2006, to the Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-B to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, File No. 1-644.)  

d) 
     Amendment, dated as of December 7, 2006, to the Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan.  (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-S (d) to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, File No. 1-644.)  

e) 
     Amendment, dated as of October 29, 2007, to the Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-J to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, File No. 1-644.)  

f) 
     Amendment, dated as of January 13, 2011, to the Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan.  (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-B to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, File No. 1-644.)  

g) 
     Amendment, dated as of July 14, 2011, to the Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan.  (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-A to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, File No. 1-644.)  

h) 
     Amendment, dated as of May 11, 2012, to the Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors.  (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-A to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2012, File No. 1-644.)  

10-M 
    a) 
     Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Employee Stock Option Plan. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Appendix B to its 2005 Notice of Meeting and Proxy Statement.)  

b) 
     Form of Award Agreement used in connection with grants to employees under the Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Employee Stock Option Plan. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-A to its Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 4, 2005, File No. 1-644.)  

c) 
     Amendment, dated as of September 7, 2006, to the Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Employee Stock Option Plan. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-A to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, File No. 1-644.)  

d) 
     Amendment, dated as of December 7, 2006, to the Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Employee Stock Option Plan.  (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-T (d) to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, File No. 1-644.)  

e) 
     Action, dated as of October 29, 2007, taken pursuant to the Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Employee Stock Option Plan and Colgate-Palmolive Company 1997 Stock Option Plan. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-I to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2007, File No. 1-644.)  

f) 
     Amendment, dated as of February 26, 2009, to the Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Employee Stock Option Plan. (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-S (f) to its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, File No. 1-644.)  

60 

Exhibit No. 

g) 
     Amendment, dated as of July 14, 2011, to the Colgate-Palmolive Company 2005 Employee Stock Option Plan.  (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-B to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, File No. 1-644.)  

10-N 
      
     Business and Share Sale and Purchase Agreement dated as of March 22, 2011 among Unilever N.V., Unilever plc, Colgate-Palmolive Company Sarl and Colgate-Palmolive Company relating to the Sanex personal care business.  (Registrant hereby incorporates by reference Exhibit 10-C to its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, File No. 1-644.)  

12 
      
     Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.**  

21 
      
     Subsidiaries of the Registrant.**  

23 
      
     Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm.**  

24 
      
     Powers of Attorney.**  

31-A 
      
     Certificate of the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer of Colgate-Palmolive Company pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.**  

31-B 
      
     Certificate of the Chief Financial Officer of Colgate-Palmolive Company pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.**  

32 
      
     Certificate of the Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer of Colgate-Palmolive Company pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 18 U.S.C.   1350.**  

101 
      
    The following materials from Colgate-Palmolive Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, formatted in eXtensible Business Reporting Language (XBRL): (i) the Consolidated Statements of Income, (ii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, and (vii) Financial Statement Schedule. 

__________ 
           * 
    Registrant hereby undertakes to furnish the Commission, upon request, with a copy of any instrument with respect to long-term debt where the total amount of securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis. 
       
           ** 
    Filed herewith. 
       
  The exhibits indicated above that are not included with the Form 10-K are available upon request and payment of a reasonable fee approximating the registrant s cost of providing and mailing the exhibits. Inquiries should be directed to: 

61 

ITEM 16.    FORM 10-K SUMMARY 
    
  None. 

62 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
  SIGNATURES 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

Colgate-Palmolive Company 
              (Registrant) 

Date: February 15, 2018 
    By 
    /s/ Ian Cook 

Ian Cook 
  Chairman of the Board, President and 
  Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below on February 15, 2018, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated. 
        
                   (a)           Principal Executive Officer 
      
    (d)           Directors: 

/s/ Ian Cook 
      
    /s/ Ian Cook 
      Ian Cook 
  Chairman of the Board, President and 
  Chief Executive Officer 
      
    Ian Cook 
      (b)           Principal Financial Officer 
      
    Charles A. Bancroft, John P. Bilbrey, 
  John T. Cahill, Helene D. Gayle,  
  Ellen M. Hancock, C. Martin Harris,  
  Lorrie M. Norrington,  
  Michael B. Polk, Stephen I. Sadove 

/s/ Dennis J. Hickey 
      
    /s/ Jennifer M. Daniels 
      Dennis J. Hickey 
  Chief Financial Officer 
      
    Jennifer M. Daniels 
  As Attorney-in-Fact 

(c)           Principal Accounting Officer 

/s/ Henning I. Jakobsen 

Henning I. Jakobsen 
  Vice President and Corporate Controller 

63 

Index to Financial Statements 

All other financial statements and schedules not listed have been omitted since the required information is included in the financial statements or the notes thereto or is not applicable or required. 

64 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
  Colgate-Palmolive Company 
    
  Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
    
  We have audited the consolidated financial statements, including the related notes and financial statement schedule, of Colgate-Palmolive Company and its subsidiaries as listed in the accompanying index (collectively referred to as the  consolidated financial statements ).      We also have audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework     (2013)     issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).   
    
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2017 and December 31, 2016, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2017 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the COSO.  
  Basis for Opinions 
  The Company     s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in Management     s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on the Company s consolidated financial statements and on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ( PCAOB ) and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  
  Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
  
    65 

Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  A company     s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company     s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company     s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

66 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
  Consolidated Statements of Income 
  For the years ended December 31, 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
   67 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
  For the years ended December 31, 
     (Dollars in Millions) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
   68 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  As of December 31, 
   (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
   69 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
  Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity 
  (Dollars in Millions) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
   70 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
  For the years ended December 31, 
  (Dollars in Millions)   

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
   71 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

1.    Nature of Operations       
    
  The Company manufactures and markets a wide variety of products in the U.S. and around the world in   two   product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition. Oral, Personal and Home Care products include toothpaste, toothbrushes and mouthwash, bar and liquid hand soaps, shower gels, shampoos, conditioners, deodorants and antiperspirants, laundry and dishwashing detergents, fabric conditioners, household cleaners and other similar items. These products are sold primarily to retail and wholesale customers and distributors worldwide. Pet Nutrition products include specialty pet nutrition products manufactured and marketed by Hill s Pet Nutrition. The principal customers for Pet Nutrition products are authorized pet supply retailers and veterinarians. Many of the products from both product segments are also sold to e-commerce retailers. Principal global and regional trademarks include Colgate, Palmolive, Speed Stick, Lady Speed Stick, Softsoap, Irish Spring, Protex, Sorriso, Kolynos, elmex, Tom s of Maine, Sanex, Ajax, Axion, Fabuloso, Soupline and Suavitel, as well as Hill s Science Diet, Hill s Prescription Diet and Hill     s Ideal Balance. 
    
  The Company s principal classes of products accounted for the following percentages of worldwide Net sales for the past three years: 

2.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
    
  Principles of Consolidation 
    
  The Consolidated Financial Statements include the accounts of Colgate-Palmolive Company and its majority-owned or controlled subsidiaries. Intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated. The Company s investments in consumer products companies with interests ranging between   20%   and   50%  , where the Company has significant influence over the investee, are accounted for using the equity method. Net income (loss) from such investments is recorded in Other (income) expense, net in the Consolidated Statements of Income. As of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , equity method investments included in Other assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets were   $42   and   $38  , respectively. Unrelated third parties hold the remaining ownership interests in these investments. Investments with less than a   20%   interest are accounted for using the cost method. Effective December 31, 2015, the Company concluded it no longer met the accounting criteria for consolidation of its Venezuelan subsidiary ( CP Venezuela ) and began accounting for CP Venezuela using the cost method of accounting. As a result, effective December 31, 2015, CP Venezuela s net assets and operating results are no longer included in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. See   Note 14  , Venezuela for further information. 
  
    72 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

Use of Estimates 
    
  The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America requires management to use judgment and make estimates that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent gains and losses at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. The level of uncertainty in estimates and assumptions increases with the length of time until the underlying transactions are completed. As such, the most significant uncertainty in the Company s assumptions and estimates involved in preparing the financial statements includes pension and other retiree benefit cost assumptions, stock-based compensation, asset impairments, uncertain tax positions, tax valuation allowances, legal and other contingency reserves, the provisional charge in 2017 related to U.S. tax reform (see   Note 11  ,   Income Taxes  ) and, prior to the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations, the selection of the exchange rate used to remeasure the financial statements of CP Venezuela (see   Note 14  , Venezuela). Additionally, the Company uses available market information and other valuation methodologies in assessing the fair value of financial instruments and retirement plan assets. Judgment is required in interpreting market data to develop the estimates of fair value and, accordingly, changes in assumptions or the estimation methodologies may affect the fair value estimates. Actual results could ultimately differ from those estimates. 
    
  Revenue Recognition 
    
  Sales are recorded at the time products are shipped to trade customers and when risk of ownership transfers. Net sales reflect units shipped at selling list prices reduced by sales returns and the cost of current and continuing promotional programs. Current promotional programs, such as product listing allowances and co-operative advertising arrangements, are recorded in the period incurred. Continuing promotional programs are predominantly consumer coupons and volume-based sales incentive arrangements with trade customers. The redemption cost of consumer coupons is based on historical redemption experience and is recorded when coupons are distributed. Volume-based incentives offered to trade customers are based on the estimated cost of the program and are recorded as products are sold. 
    
  Shipping and Handling Costs 
    
  Shipping and handling costs are classified as Selling, general and administrative expenses and were   $1,183  ,   $1,140   and   $1,235   for the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
    
  Marketing Costs 
    
  The Company markets its products through advertising and other promotional activities. Advertising costs are included in Selling, general and administrative expenses and are expensed as incurred. Certain consumer and trade promotional programs, such as consumer coupons, are recorded as a reduction of sales. 
    
  Cash and Cash Equivalents 
    
  The Company considers all highly liquid investments with original maturities of three months or less at the time of purchase to be cash equivalents. 
    
  Inventories 
    
  The cost of approximately   75%   of inventories is determined using the first-in, first-out ( FIFO ) method, which is stated at the lower of cost or net realizable value. The cost of all other inventories, in the U.S. and Mexico, is determined using the last-in, first-out ( LIFO ) method, which is stated at the lower of cost or market. 
  
    73 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

Property, Plant and Equipment 
    
  Land, buildings and machinery and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is provided, primarily using the straight-line method, over estimated useful lives ranging from   3   to   15   years for machinery and equipment and up to   40   years for buildings. Depreciation attributable to manufacturing operations is included in Cost of sales. The remaining component of depreciation is included in Selling, general and administrative expenses. 
    
  Goodwill and Other Intangibles 
    
  Goodwill and indefinite life intangible assets, such as the Company s global brands, are subject to impairment tests at least annually. These tests were performed and did not result in an impairment charge. Other intangible assets with finite lives, such as local brands and trademarks, customer relationships and non-compete agreements, are amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally ranging from   5   to   40   years. Amortization expense related to intangible assets is included in Other (income) expense, net, which is included in Operating profit. 
    
  Income Taxes 
    
  The provision for income taxes is determined using the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based upon the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates that will be in effect at the time such differences are expected to reverse. Deferred tax assets are reduced by a valuation allowance when, in the opinion of management, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.  
    
  The Company uses a comprehensive model to recognize, measure, present and disclose in its financial statements uncertain tax positions that the Company has taken or expects to take on an income tax return. The Company recognizes interest expense and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits within Provision for income taxes. 
    
  Financial Instruments 
    
  Derivative instruments are recorded as assets and liabilities at estimated fair value based on available market information. The Company s derivative instruments that qualify for hedge accounting are designated as either fair value hedges, cash flow hedges or net investment hedges. For fair value hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative, as well as the offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged item, are recognized in earnings each period. For cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss) and are recognized in earnings when the offsetting effect of the hedged item is also recognized in earnings. For hedges of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries, changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded in Other comprehensive income (loss) to offset the change in the value of the net investment being hedged. Cash flows related to hedges are classified in the same category as the cash flows from the hedged item in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
    
  The Company may also enter into certain foreign currency and interest rate instruments that economically hedge certain of its risks but do not qualify for hedge accounting. Changes in fair value of these derivative instruments, based on quoted market prices, are recognized in earnings each period. The Company s derivative instruments and other financial instruments are more fully described in   Note 7  , Fair Value Measurements and Financial Instruments along with the related fair value measurement considerations. 
    
  Stock-Based Compensation 
    
  The Company recognizes the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, such as stock options and restricted stock units, based on the fair value of those awards at the date of grant over the requisite service period. The Company uses the Black-Scholes-Merton (     Black-Scholes     ) option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock option awards. Stock-based compensation plans, related expenses and assumptions used in the Black-Scholes option pricing model are more fully described in   Note 8  , Capital Stock and Stock-Based Compensation Plans. 

74 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

Currency Translation 
    
  The assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries, other than those operating in highly inflationary environments, are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange rates with resulting translation gains and losses accumulated in a separate component of shareholders  equity. Income and expense items are translated into U.S. dollars at average rates of exchange prevailing during the year. 
    
  For subsidiaries operating in highly inflationary environments, local currency-denominated non-monetary assets, including inventories, goodwill and property, plant and equipment, are remeasured at their historical exchange rates, while local currency-denominated monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured at year-end exchange rates. Remeasurement adjustments for these operations are included in Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company. Prior to the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations in 2015, CP Venezuela was designated as hyper-inflationary and the functional currency for CP Venezuela was the U.S. dollar. See Note 14, Venezuela for further information. Currently, none of the Company s subsidiaries operate in highly inflationary environments.  
    
  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
    
  On August 28, 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2017-12,  Derivatives and Hedging (Topic 815): Targeted Improvements to Accounting for Hedging Activities,  amending the eligibility criteria for hedged items and transactions to expand an entity s ability to hedge nonfinancial and financial risk components. The new guidance eliminates the requirement to separately measure and present hedge ineffectiveness and aligns the presentation of hedge gains and losses with the underlying hedge item. The new guidance also simplifies the hedge documentation and hedge effectiveness assessment requirements. The new guidance is effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The amended presentation and disclosure requirements must be adopted on a prospective basis, while any amendments to cash flow and net investment hedge relationships that exist on the date of adoption must be applied on a  modified retrospective  basis, meaning a cumulative effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings as of the beginning of the year of adoption. While the Company is currently assessing the impact of the new standard on its Consolidated Financial Statements, this new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  On May 10, 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09,  Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Scope of Modification Accounting,  clarifying when a change to the terms or conditions of a stock-based payment award must be accounted for as a modification. The new guidance requires modification accounting if the fair value, vesting condition or the classification of the award is not the same immediately before and after a change to the terms and conditions of the award. The new guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018. This new guidance is not expected to have an impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements as it is not the Company s practice to change either the terms or conditions of stock-based payment awards once they are granted. 

75 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

On March 10, 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-07,  Compensation Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost,  changing the presentation of the net periodic benefit cost on the Statement of Income and limiting the amount of net periodic benefit cost eligible for capitalization to assets. The new guidance permits only the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost to be eligible for capitalization. The new guidance also requires entities to present the service cost component of net periodic benefit cost together with compensation costs arising from services rendered by employees during the period. Other components of net periodic benefit cost, which include interest, expected return on assets, amortization of prior service costs and actuarial gains and losses, are required to be presented outside of Operating profit. The line item or items used to present the other components of net periodic benefit cost must be disclosed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, if not separately described on the Statement of Income. The new presentation requirement is required to be adopted on a  full retrospective  basis, meaning the standard is applied to all of the periods presented in the financial statements, while the limitation on capitalization can only be adopted on a prospective basis. The new guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2018. Had the standard been effective for the year ended December 31, 2017, full year Operating profit would have increased by approximately   $120   with   no   impact on Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company. The Company anticipates that, as a result of the reclassification, full year Operating profit will increase in future periods by approximately   $100   annually with   no   impact on Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company.  
    
  On January 26, 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04,  Intangibles Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment,  eliminating the requirement to calculate the implied fair value, essentially eliminating step two from the goodwill impairment test. The new standard requires goodwill impairment to be based upon the results of step one of the impairment test, which is defined as the excess of the carrying value of a reporting unit over its fair value. The impairment charge will be limited to the amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. The standard is effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2020, with early adoption permitted. This new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  On January 5, 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01,  Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business,  which provides additional guidance on evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions of assets or businesses. The guidance requires an entity to evaluate if substantially all of the fair value of the assets acquired is concentrated in a single identifiable asset or a group of similar identifiable assets. If this threshold is met, the new guidance would define this as an asset acquisition; otherwise, the entity then evaluates whether the asset meets the requirement that a business include, at a minimum, an input and substantive process that together significantly contribute to the ability to create outputs. The guidance was effective for the Company on a prospective basis beginning on January 1, 2018. This new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  On October 24, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16,  Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other than Inventory,  which eliminates the requirement to defer recognition of income taxes on intra-entity asset transfers until the asset is sold to an outside party. The new guidance requires the recognition of current and deferred income taxes on intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory, such as intellectual property and property, plant and equipment, when the transfer occurs. As permitted, the Company early-adopted the new standard on a  modified retrospective  basis, meaning the standard was applied only to the most recent period presented in the financial statements, as of January 1, 2017. This new guidance did not have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  On August 26, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15,  Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments,  which clarifies how certain cash receipts and payments are to be presented in the statement of cash flows. The guidance was effective for the Company on January 1, 2018. This new guidance is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 

76 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

On March 30, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09,  Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting,  which amended accounting for income taxes related to stock-based compensation, the related classification in the statement of cash flows and share award forfeiture accounting. The new guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2017. As required subsequent to the adoption of this new guidance, the Company recognized excess tax benefits of   $47   (resulting from an increase in the fair value of an award from grant date to the vesting or exercise date, as applicable) in the Provision for income taxes as a discrete item during the year ended   December 31, 2017  . These amounts may not necessarily be indicative of future amounts that may be recognized as any excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation recognized would be dependent on future stock price, employee exercise behavior and applicable tax rates. Prior to January 1, 2017, excess tax benefits were recognized in equity. As permitted, the Company elected to classify these excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation as an operating activity in the Statement of Cash Flows instead of as a financing activity on a prospective basis and did not retrospectively adjust prior periods. Also, as permitted by the new standard, the Company elected to account for forfeitures as they occur. 
    
  On March 15, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-07,  Investments Equity Method and Joint Ventures (Topic 323): Simplifying the Transition to the Equity Method of Accounting,  which eliminated the requirement to retroactively adjust an investment that subsequently qualifies for equity method accounting (as a result of an increase in level of ownership interest or degree of influence) as if the equity method of accounting had been applied during all prior periods that the investment was held. The new standard requires that the investor add the cost of acquiring additional ownership interest in the investee to its current basis and prospectively apply the equity method of accounting. For an available-for-sale investment, any unrealized gains or losses should be recognized in earnings at the date the investment qualifies as an equity method investment. The new guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2017, and did not have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  On February 25, 2016, the FASB issued its final standard on lease accounting, ASU No. 2016-02,  Leases (Topic 842),  which supersedes Topic 840,  Leases.  The new accounting standard requires the recognition of right-of-use assets and lease liabilities for all long-term leases, including operating leases, on the balance sheet. The new standard also provides additional guidance on the measurement of the right-of-use assets and lease liabilities and will require enhanced disclosures about the Company s leasing arrangements. Under current accounting standards, substantially all of the Company s leases are considered operating leases and, as such, are not recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. This new standard is effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2019, with early adoption permitted. The standard requires a  modified retrospective  adoption, meaning the standard is applied to leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. The Company is currently assessing the impact of the new standard on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  On January 5, 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01,  Financial Instruments Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.  The updated guidance enhances the reporting model for financial instruments, which includes amendments to address aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure. The amendment to the standard was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2018 and is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements.  
    
  On July 22, 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-11,  Inventory (Topic 330): Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory,  which simplifies the subsequent measurement of inventories by replacing the lower of cost or market test with a lower of cost and net realizable value test. The guidance applies only to inventories for which cost is determined by methods other than LIFO and the retail inventory method. The new guidance was effective for the Company beginning on January 1, 2017. This new guidance did not have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. 

77 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

On May 28, 2014, the FASB and the International Accounting Standards Board issued their final converged standard on revenue recognition. The standard, issued as ASU No. 2014-09,  Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)  by the FASB, provides a comprehensive revenue recognition model for all contracts with customers and supersedes current revenue recognition guidance. The revenue standard contains principles that an entity will apply to determine the measurement of revenue and timing of when it is recognized. The underlying principle is that an entity will recognize revenue to depict the transfer of goods or services to its customers at an amount that the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The new standard also includes enhanced disclosures. During 2016, the FASB issued several accounting updates (ASU No. 2016-08, 2016-10 and 2016-12) to clarify implementation guidance and correct unintended application of the guidance. The standard allows for either full retrospective adoption or modified retrospective adoption. The Company adopted the new standard on January 1, 2018, on a  modified retrospective  basis, which did not have a material impact on the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements. Although the new standard resulted in changes to the Company s revenue recognition accounting policy commencing on January 1, 2018, the Company does not expect it will have a material impact in future periods on its Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  Reclassifications 
    
  Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current year presentation.  

3.    Acquisitions and Divestitures 
    
  Acquisitions  
    
  In January 2018, the Company acquired all of the outstanding equity interests of Physicians Care Alliance, LLC and Elta MD Holdings, Inc., professional skin care businesses, for aggregate cash consideration of approximately   $730  . 
    
  Sale of Land in Mexico 
    
  In September 2016, the Company s Mexican subsidiary completed the sale to the United States of America of the Mexico City site on which its commercial operations, technology center and soap production facility were previously located and received $  60   as the third and final installment of the sale price. The total sale price (including the   third   installment and the previously received   first   and   second   installments) was $  120  . The Company recognized a pretax gain of $  97   ($  63   aftertax or   $0.07   per diluted share) in the third quarter of 2016, net of costs primarily related to site preparation. 
    
  Sale of Laundry Detergent Business in the South Pacific 
    
  In August 2015, the Company completed the sale of its laundry detergent business in the South Pacific to Henkel AG   Co. KGaA for an aggregate purchase price of approximately   310   Australian dollars ($  221  ) and recorded a pretax gain of $  187   ($  120   aftertax or $  0.13   per diluted share) in Other (income) expense, net. The gain is net of charges related to the right-sizing of the Company s South Pacific business, asset write-offs related to the divested laundry detergent business and other costs related to the sale. The funds from the sale were reinvested to expand the Global Growth and Efficiency Program (see Note 4, Restructuring and Related Implementation Changes). 

78 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

4.    Restructuring and Related Implementation Charges  
    
  In the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company commenced a restructuring program (the  Global Growth and Efficiency Program ) for sustained growth. The program was expanded in 2014 and expanded and extended in 2015.  Building on the Company s successful implementation of the program, on   October 26, 2017  , the Board approved an expansion of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and an extension of the program through   December 31, 2019   to take advantage of additional opportunities to streamline the Company s operations. 
    
  Initiatives under the Global Growth and Efficiency Program continue to fit within the program s three focus areas of expanding commercial hubs, extending shared business services and streamlining global functions and optimizing the global supply chain and facilities.  
    
  Including the most recent expansion, cumulative pretax charges resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, once all phases are approved and implemented, are estimated to be in the range of   $1,730   to   $1,885   (  $1,280   to   $1,380   aftertax). The Company anticipates that pretax charges for 2018 will approximate   $100   to   $175   (  $75   to   $125   aftertax). It is expected that substantially all charges resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program will be incurred by December 31, 2019. 
    
  The pretax charges resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program are currently estimated to be comprised of the following categories: Employee-Related Costs, including severance, pension and other termination benefits (  50%  ); asset-related costs, primarily Incremental Depreciation and Asset Impairments (  10%  ); and Other charges, which include contract termination costs, consisting primarily of related implementation charges resulting directly from exit activities (  20%  ) and the implementation of new strategies (  20%  ). Over the course of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, it is currently estimated that approximately   80%   of the charges will result in cash expenditures.  
    
  The Company expects that the cumulative pretax charges, once all projects are approved and implemented, will relate to initiatives undertaken in North America (  15%  ), Europe (  20%  ), Latin America (  5%  ), Asia Pacific (  5%  ), Africa/Eurasia (  5%  ), Hill s Pet Nutrition (  10%  ) and Corporate (  40%  ), which includes substantially all of the costs related to the implementation of new strategies, noted above, on a global basis. The Company expects that, when it has been fully implemented, the Global Growth and Efficiency Program will have contributed a net reduction of approximately   3,800   to   4,400   positions from the Company s global employee workforce.  
    
  For the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , restructuring and related implementation charges are reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income as follows:   

Restructuring and related implementation charges in the preceding table are recorded in the Corporate segment as these initiatives are predominantly centrally directed and controlled and are not included in internal measures of segment operating performance.   

79 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

Total charges incurred for the Global Growth and Efficiency Program relate to initiatives undertaken by the following reportable operating segments: 

Since the inception of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program in the fourth quarter of 2012, the Company has incurred cumulative pretax charges of   $1,561   (  $1,153   aftertax) in connection with the implementation of various projects as follows:  

The majority of costs incurred since inception relate to the following projects: the implementation of the Company s overall hubbing strategy; the extension of shared business services and streamlining of global functions; the consolidation of facilities; the closing of the Morristown, New Jersey personal care facility; the simplification and streamlining of the Company s research and development capabilities and oral care supply chain, both in Europe; redesigning the European commercial organization; restructuring how the Company will provide future retirement benefits to substantially all of the U.S.-based employees participating in the Company s defined benefit retirement plan by shifting them to the Company s defined contribution plan; and the implementation of a Corporate efficiencies program.  

80 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

The following table summarizes the activity for the restructuring and related implementation charges, in the respective periods, discussed above and the related accruals: 

Employee-Related Costs primarily include severance and other termination benefits and are calculated based on long-standing benefit practices, local statutory requirements and, in certain cases, voluntary termination arrangements. Employee-Related Costs also include pension and other retiree benefit enhancements amounting to   $21  ,   $4   and   $17   for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015, respectively, which are reflected as Charges against assets within Employee-Related Costs in the preceding table as the corresponding balance sheet amounts are reflected as a reduction of pension assets or an increase in pension and other retiree benefit liabilities (see   Note 10  , Retirement Plans and Other Retiree Benefits).  
    
  Incremental Depreciation is recorded to reflect changes in useful lives and estimated residual values for long-lived assets that will be taken out of service prior to the end of their normal service period. Asset Impairments are recorded to write down assets held for sale or disposal to their fair value based on amounts expected to be realized. Charges against assets within Asset Impairments are net of cash proceeds pertaining to the sale of certain assets. 
    
  Other charges consist primarily of charges resulting directly from exit activities and the implementation of new strategies as a result of the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. These charges for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 include third-party incremental costs related to the development and implementation of new business and strategic initiatives of   $145  ,   $116   and   $65  , respectively, and contract termination costs and charges resulting directly from exit activities of   $6  ,   $21   and   $8  , respectively. These charges were expensed as incurred. Also included in Other charges for the years ended December 31, 2017, 2016 and 2015 are other exit costs of   $0  ,   $1   and   $47  , respectively, related to the consolidation of facilities.  

81 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

5.    Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets 
    
  The net carrying value of Goodwill as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016   by segment was as follows: 

The change in the amount of Goodwill in each year is primarily due to the impact of foreign currency translation.  
    
  Other intangible assets as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016   were comprised of the following: 

The changes in the net carrying amounts of Other intangible assets during   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   were primarily due to amortization expense of   $35  ,   $33   and   $33  , respectively, as well as the impact of foreign currency translation. Annual estimated amortization expense for each of the next five years is expected to be approximately   $35  . 

82 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

6.    Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities 
    
  Long-term debt consisted of the following at December 31: 

The weighted-average interest rate on short-term borrowings of   $11   in   2017   and   $13   in   2016   included in Notes and loans payable in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016   was   2.8%   and   1.6%  , respectively. 
    
  The Company classifies commercial paper and notes maturing within the next twelve months as long-term debt when it has the intent and ability to refinance such obligations on a long-term basis. Excluding such obligations, scheduled maturities of long-term debt and capitalized leases outstanding as of   December 31, 2017  , were as follows:   

The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements and foreign exchange contracts related to certain of these debt instruments. See Note 7, Fair Value Measurements and Financial Instruments for further information about the Company s financial instruments. 
    
  The Company s debt issuances support its capital structure strategy objectives of funding its business and growth initiatives while minimizing its risk-adjusted cost of capital. During the fourth quarter of 2017, the Company issued   $400   of   five  -year notes at a   fixed rate   of   2.25%  . During the third quarter of 2017, the Company issued   $500   of   thirty  -year notes at a   fixed rate   of   3.70%  . The debt issuances in 2017 were under the Company s shelf registration statement. Proceeds from the debt issuances in 2017 were used for general corporate purposes which included the retirement of commercial paper borrowings.  
    
  At   December 31, 2017  , the Company had access to unused domestic and foreign lines of credit of $  2,949   (including under the facilities discussed below) and could also issue medium-term notes pursuant to an effective shelf registration statement. In November 2011, the Company entered into a   five  -year revolving credit facility with a capacity of   $1,850   with a syndicate of banks. This facility was extended for an additional year in 2012 and again in 2013. In 2014, the Company entered into an amendment of this facility whereby the facility was extended for an additional year to November 2019 and the capacity of the facility was increased to   $2,370  . In 2016, the facility was extended for an additional year to   November 2020  . The Company also has the ability to draw   $165   from a revolving credit facility that expires in   November 2018  . Commitment fees related to the credit facilities are not material. 

83 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

Certain agreements with respect to the Company s bank borrowings contain financial and other covenants as well as cross-default provisions. Noncompliance with these requirements could ultimately result in the acceleration of amounts owed. The Company is in full compliance with all such requirements and believes the likelihood of noncompliance is remote. 

7.    Fair Value Measurements and Financial Instruments  
    
  The Company uses available market information and other valuation methodologies in assessing the fair value of financial instruments. Judgment is required in interpreting market data to develop the estimates of fair value and, accordingly, changes in assumptions or the estimation methodologies may affect the fair value estimates. The Company is exposed to the risk of credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to financial instrument contracts; however, nonperformance is considered unlikely and any nonperformance is unlikely to be material, as it is the Company s policy to contract only with diverse, credit-worthy counterparties based upon both strong credit ratings and other credit considerations. 
    
  The Company is exposed to market risk from foreign currency exchange rates, interest rates and commodity price fluctuations. Volatility relating to these exposures is managed on a global basis by utilizing a number of techniques, including working capital management, sourcing strategies, selling price increases, selective borrowings in local currencies and entering into selective derivative instrument transactions, issued with standard features, in accordance with the Company s treasury and risk management policies, which prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes and leveraged derivatives for any purpose. It is the Company s policy to enter into derivative instrument contracts with terms that match the underlying exposure being hedged. Hedge ineffectiveness, if any, is not material for any period presented. Provided below are details of the Company s exposures by type of risk and derivative instruments by type of hedge designation. 
    
  Valuation Considerations 
    
  Assets and liabilities carried at fair value are classified as follows: 
    
  Level 1: Based upon quoted market prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
  Level 2: Based upon observable market-based inputs or unobservable inputs that are corroborated by market data. 
  Level 3: Based upon unobservable inputs reflecting the reporting entity s own assumptions. 
    
  Foreign Exchange Risk 
    
  As the Company markets its products in over   200   countries and territories, it is exposed to currency fluctuations related to manufacturing and selling its products in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The Company manages its foreign currency exposures through a combination of cost containment measures, sourcing strategies, selling price increases and the hedging of certain costs in an effort to minimize the impact on earnings of foreign currency rate movements.    
    
  The Company primarily utilizes foreign currency contracts, including forward and swap contracts, option contracts, foreign and local currency deposits and local currency borrowings to hedge portions of its foreign currency purchases, assets and liabilities arising in the normal course of business and the net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. The duration of foreign currency contracts generally does not exceed 12 months and the contracts are valued using observable market rates (Level 2 valuation). 
    
  Interest Rate Risk 
    
  The Company manages its targeted mix of fixed and floating rate debt with debt issuances and by entering into interest rate swaps in order to mitigate fluctuations in earnings and cash flows that may result from interest rate volatility. The notional amount, interest payment and maturity date of the swaps generally match the principal, interest payment and maturity date of the related debt, and the swaps are valued using observable benchmark rates (Level 2 valuation). 

84 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

Commodity Price Risk 
    
  The Company is exposed to price volatility related to raw materials used in production, such as   resins, pulp, essential oils, tropical oils, tallow, poultry, corn and soybeans  . The Company manages its raw material exposures through a combination of cost containment measures, sourcing strategies, ongoing productivity initiatives and the limited use of commodity hedging contracts. Futures contracts are used on a limited basis, primarily in the Hill s Pet Nutrition segment, to manage volatility related to raw material inventory purchases of certain traded commodities, and these contracts are measured using quoted commodity exchange prices (Level 1 valuation). The duration of the commodity contracts generally does not exceed 12 months. 
    
  Credit Risk 
    
  The Company is exposed to the risk of credit loss in the event of nonperformance by counterparties to financial instrument contracts; however, nonperformance is considered unlikely and any nonperformance is unlikely to be material as it is the Company s policy to contract with diverse, credit-worthy counterparties based upon both strong credit ratings and other credit considerations.  
    
  The following table summarizes the fair value of the Company s derivative instruments and other financial instruments at   December 31, 2017   and   December 31, 2016  : 

Assets 
      
    Liabilities 
        
    Account 
      
    Fair Value 
      
    Account 
      
    Fair Value 
      Designated derivative instruments 

12/31/17 
      
    12/31/16 

12/31/17 
      
    12/31/16 
      Interest rate swap contracts 
    Other current assets 
      
    $ 

$ 
    1 

Other accruals 
      
    $ 

$ 

Interest rate swap contracts 
    Other assets 

1 

Other liabilities 
      
    7 

Foreign currency contracts 
    Other current assets 
      
    25 

29 

Other accruals 
      
    20 

4 
      
      Foreign currency contracts 
    Other assets 

5 

Other liabilities 
      
    46 

Commodity contracts 
    Other current assets 

Other accruals 

Total designated 

$ 
    25 

$ 
    36 

$ 
    73 

$ 
    4 

Derivatives not designated 

Foreign currency contracts 
    Other assets 

Other liabilities 

Total not designated 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

Total derivative instruments 

$ 
    25 

$ 
    36 

$ 
    73 

$ 
    4 

Other financial instruments 

Marketable securities 
    Other current assets 
      
    $ 
    14 

$ 
    23 

Total other financial instruments 

$ 
    14 

$ 
    23 

85 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

The carrying amount of cash, cash equivalents, accounts receivable and short-term debt approximated fair value as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  . The estimated fair value of the Company s long-term debt, including the current portion, as of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , was   $6,799   and   $6,717  , respectively, and the related carrying value was   $6,566   and   $6,520  , respectively. The estimated fair value of long-term debt was derived principally from quoted prices on the Company s outstanding fixed-term notes (Level 2 valuation). 
    
  Fair Value Hedges 
    
  The Company has designated all interest rate swap contracts and certain foreign currency forward and option contracts as fair value hedges, for which the gain or loss on the derivative and the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item are recognized in current earnings. The impact of foreign currency contracts is primarily recognized in Selling, general and administrative expenses and the impact of interest rate swap contracts is recognized in Interest (income) expense, net.   
    
  Activity related to fair value hedges recorded during each period presented was as follows:    

Cash Flow Hedges 
    
  All of the Company s commodity contracts and certain foreign currency forward contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges, for which the effective portion of the gain or loss is reported as a component of Other comprehensive income (     OCI     ) and reclassified into earnings in the same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.  
    
  Activity related to cash flow hedges recorded during each period presented was as follows: 

The net gain (loss) recognized in OCI for both foreign currency contracts and commodity contracts is generally expected to be recognized in Cost of sales within the next twelve months. 

86 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

Net Investment Hedges 
    
  The Company has designated certain foreign currency forward and option contracts and certain foreign currency-denominated debt as net investment hedges, for which the gain or loss on the instrument is reported as a component of Cumulative translation adjustments within OCI, along with the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged items.  
    
  Activity related to net investment hedges recorded during each period presented was as follows: 

Derivatives Not Designated as Hedging Instruments 
    
   Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments include foreign currency contracts for which the gain or loss on the instrument is recognized in Other (income) expense, net for the twelve months ended December 31, 2017. During the second quarter of 2017, the Company de-designated foreign currency forward contracts previously designated as net investment hedges and entered into new derivative instruments with offsetting terms. Gains or losses on these de-designated derivatives were substantially offset by gains and losses on the new derivative instruments.  
    
   Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments consisted of a cross-currency swap that served as an economic hedge of a foreign currency deposit, for which the gain or loss on the instrument and the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item was recognized in Other (income) expense, net for the twelve months ended December 31, 2016. 
    
  Activity related to these contracts during each period presented was as follows: 

Other Financial Instruments 
    
  Other financial instruments are classified as Other current assets or Other assets. 
    
  Included in Other current assets at December 31, 2017 are marketable securities, which consist of bank deposits of   $14   with original maturities greater than 90 days carried at fair value (Level 1 valuation) and the current portion of bonds issued by the Argentinian government in the amount of   $4   classified as held-to-maturity and carried at amortized cost.  
    
  Through its subsidiary in Argentina, the Company has invested in U.S. dollar-linked devaluation-protected bonds and Argentinian peso-denominated bonds issued by the Argentinian government. As of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , the amortized cost of these bonds was   $4   and   $52  , respectively, and their approximate fair value was   $4   and   $64  , respectively (Level 2 valuation).  

87 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

8.    Capital Stock and Stock-Based Compensation Plans 
    
  Preference Stock 
    
  The Company has the authority to issue   50,262,150   shares of preference stock.  
    
  Stock Repurchases 
    
  On February 19, 2015, the Board authorized the repurchase of shares of the Company s common stock having an aggregate purchase price of up to   $5,000   under a share repurchase program (the  2015 Program ), which replaced a previously authorized share repurchase program. The Company commenced repurchase of shares of the Company s common stock under the 2015 Program beginning February 19, 2015. The Board also has authorized share repurchases on an ongoing basis to fulfill certain requirements of the Company s compensation and benefit programs. The shares are repurchased from time to time in open market or privately negotiated transactions at the Company s discretion, subject to market conditions, customary blackout periods and other factors. The Company repurchased its common stock at a cost of $  1,399   during   2017   under the 2015 Program. 
    
  The Company may use either authorized and unissued shares or treasury shares to meet share requirements resulting from the exercise of stock options and the vesting of restricted stock unit awards. 
    
  A summary of common stock and treasury stock activity for the three years ended December 31, is as follows: 

88 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

Stock-Based Compensation 
    
  The Company recognizes the cost of employee services received in exchange for awards of equity instruments, such as stock options and restricted stock units, based on the fair value of those awards at the date of grant. The fair value of restricted stock units, generally based on market prices, is amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period. The estimated fair value of stock options on the date of grant is amortized on a straight-line basis over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the award. Awards to employees eligible for retirement prior to the award becoming fully vested are recognized as compensation cost from the grant date through the date that the employee first becomes eligible to retire and is no longer required to provide service to earn the award. 
    
  The Company has   one   incentive compensation plan pursuant to which it issues restricted stock units and stock options to employees and shares of common stock and stock options to non-employee directors. The Personnel and Organization Committee of the Board of Directors, which is comprised entirely of independent directors, administers the incentive compensation plan. The total stock-based compensation expense charged against pretax income for this plan was $  127  , $  123   and $  125   for the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. The total income tax benefit recognized on stock-based compensation was approximately $  42  ,   $40   and   $39   for the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
    
  Stock-based compensation expense is recorded within Selling, general and administrative expenses in the Corporate segment as these amounts are not included in internal measures of segment operating performance. 
    
  The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of stock option awards. The weighted-average estimated fair value of stock options granted in the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was $  8.37  , $  8.10   and $  7.25  , respectively. Fair value is estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the assumptions summarized in the following table: 

The weighted-average expected term of options granted each year was determined with reference to historical exercise and post-vesting cancellation experience, the vesting period of the awards and the contractual term of the awards, among other factors. Expected volatility incorporates implied share-price volatility derived from exchange traded options on the Company s common stock. The risk-free interest rate for the expected term of the option is based on the yield of a zero-coupon U.S. Treasury bond with a maturity period equal to the option s expected term. 

89 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

Restricted Stock Units 
    
  The Company grants restricted stock unit awards to officers and other employees, including long-term incentive awards. Under the Company s long-term incentive plan, awards are granted following a three-year performance period. Awards vest at the end of the restriction period, which is generally   three   years from the date of grant. As of   December 31, 2017  , approximately   9,870,000   shares of common stock were available for future restricted stock unit awards. 
    
  A summary of restricted stock unit activity during   2017   is presented below: 

As of   December 31, 2017  , there was $  52   of total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested restricted stock unit awards, which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of   2.1   years. The total fair value of restricted stock units vested during the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was $  66  , $  61   and $  70  , respectively. 
    
  Stock Options 
    
  The Company issues non-qualified stock options to non-employee directors, officers and other employees. Stock options generally have a contractual term of   six   years and vest over   three   years. As of   December 31, 2017  ,   20,997,000   shares of common stock were available for future stock option grants.  
    
  A summary of stock option activity during   2017   is presented below: 

As of   December 31, 2017  , there was $  45   of total unrecognized compensation expense related to unvested options, which will be recognized over a weighted-average period of   1.5   years. The total intrinsic value of options exercised during the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015   was $  201  , $  221   and $  200  , respectively. 

90 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

The benefits of tax deductions in excess of grant date fair value resulting from the exercise of stock options and vesting of restricted stock unit awards for the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015   were $  47  , $  59   and $  55  , respectively. Through December 31, 2016 these amounts were recognized in equity and were reported as a financing cash flow. Effective January 1, 2017, as a result of the required adoption of ASU No. 2016-09, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation have been recognized in the provision for income taxes as a discrete item in the quarterly period in which they occur and classified as an operating cash flow. Cash proceeds received from options exercised for the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015   were $  507  , $  386   and $  299  , respectively. 

9.    Employee Stock Ownership Plan 
    
  In 1989, the Company expanded its Employee Stock Ownership Plan (     ESOP     ) through the introduction of a leveraged ESOP that funds certain benefits for employees who have met eligibility requirements. As of   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , there were   18,400,412   and   21,082,162   shares of common stock, respectively, outstanding and issued to the Company     s ESOP.  
    
  During 2000, the ESOP entered into a loan agreement with the Company under which the benefits of the ESOP may be extended through 2035. As of   December 31, 2017  , the ESOP had outstanding borrowings from the Company of   $5  , which represents unearned compensation shown as a reduction in Shareholders  equity. 
    
  Dividends on stock held by the ESOP are paid to the ESOP trust and, together with cash contributions from the Company, are (a) used by the ESOP to repay principal and interest, (b) credited to participant accounts or (c) used for contributions to the Company s defined contribution plans. Stock is allocated to participants based upon the ratio of the current year s debt service to the sum of total outstanding principal and interest payments over the life of the debt. As of   December 31, 2017  ,   14,809,986   shares of common stock had been released and allocated to participant accounts and   3,590,426   shares of common stock were available for future allocation to participant accounts.  
    
  Dividends on the stock used to repay principal and interest or credited to participant accounts are deductible for income tax purposes and, accordingly, are reflected net of their tax benefit in the Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders  Equity. 
    
  Annual expense related to the ESOP was   $0   in   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  .  
    
   The Company paid dividends on the shares held by the ESOP of   $32   in   2017  ,   $35   in   2016   and   $38   in   2015  . The Company contributed to the ESOP   $0   in   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  . 

10.    Retirement Plans and Other Retiree Benefits 
    
  Retirement Plans 
    
  The Company and certain of its U.S. and overseas subsidiaries maintain defined benefit retirement plans. Benefits under these plans are based primarily on years of service and employees  earnings. 
    
  In the U.S., effective January 1, 2014, the Company provides virtually all future retirement benefits through the Company s defined contribution plan. As a result, service after December 31, 2013 is not considered for participants in the Company s principal U.S. defined benefit retirement plan. Participants in the Company s principal U.S. defined benefit retirement plan whose retirement benefit was determined under the cash balance formula continue to earn interest credits on their vested balances as of December 31, 2013 but no longer receive pay credits. Participants whose retirement benefit was determined under the final average earnings formula or career average earnings formula continue to have their accrued benefit adjusted for pay increases until termination of employment.  

91 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

In the Company s principal U.S. plans and certain funded overseas plans, funds are contributed to trusts in accordance with regulatory limits to provide for current service and for any unfunded projected benefit obligation over a reasonable period. The target asset allocation for the Company s defined benefit plans is as follows: 

At   December 31, 2017   the allocation of the Company s plan assets and the level of valuation input, as applicable, for each major asset category were as follows: 

92 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

At   December 31, 2016   the allocation of the Company s plan assets and the level of valuation input, as applicable, for each major asset category were as follows: 

_______ 
            (1)   
    Pooled funds primarily invest in U.S. and foreign equity securities, debt and money market securities.  
               (2)   
    The fixed income securities are traded over the counter and certain of these securities lack daily pricing or liquidity and as such are classified as Level 2. As of December 31, 2017 and 2016, approximately   50%   of the U.S. pension plan fixed income portfolio was invested in U.S. treasury or agency securities, with the remainder invested in other government bonds and corporate bonds. 
               (3)   
    The guaranteed investment contracts ( GICs ) represent contracts with insurance companies measured at the cash surrender value of each contract. The Level 2 valuation reflects that the cash surrender value is based principally on a referenced pool of investment funds with active redemption. 
               (4)   
    Investments that are measured at fair value using net asset value ( NAV ) per share as a practical expedient have not been classified in the fair value hierarchy. The NAV is based on the value of the underlying investments owned, minus its liabilities, divided by the number of shares outstanding. There are no unfunded commitments related to these investments. Redemption notice period primarily ranges from 0-3 months and redemption frequency windows range from daily to quarterly.   
               (5)   
    Fixed income funds primarily invest in U.S. government and investment grade corporate bonds. 
               (6)   
    Consists of investments in underlying hedge fund strategies that are primarily implemented through the use of long and short equity and fixed income securities and derivative instruments such as futures and options. 
               (7)   
    Multi-Asset funds primarily invest across a variety of asset classes, including global stocks and bonds, as well as alternative strategies. 
               (8)   
    Real estate is valued using the NAV per unit of funds that are invested in real estate property. The investment value of the real estate property is determined quarterly using independent market appraisals as determined by the investment manager.  
               (9)   
    This category primarily includes unsettled trades for investments purchased and sold and dividend receivables.  
     
    93 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

Equity securities in the U.S. plans include investments in the Company s common stock representing   7%   of U.S. plan assets at   December 31, 2017   and   December 31, 2016  . No shares of the Company s common stock were purchased or sold by the U.S. plans in   2017   or   2016  . The plans received dividends on the Company s common stock of   $3   in   2017   and   2016  . 
    
  Other Retiree Benefits 
    
  The Company and certain of its subsidiaries provide health care and life insurance benefits for retired employees to the extent not provided by government-sponsored plans.   
    
  The Company uses a December 31 measurement date for its defined benefit and other retiree benefit plans. Summarized information for the Company s defined benefit and other retiree benefit plans is as follows: 
  
    94 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

95 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

_________ 
            (1)   
    Represents pension and other retiree benefit enhancements incurred in 2017 and 2016 pursuant to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
       
  The overall investment objective of the plans is to balance risk and return so that obligations to employees are met. The Company evaluates its long-term rate of return on plan assets on an annual basis. In determining the long-term rate of return, the Company considers the nature of the plans  investments and the historical rates of return. The assumed rate of return as of   December 31, 2017   for the U.S. plans was   6.60%  . Average annual rates of return for the U.S. plans for the most recent 1-year, 5-year, 10-year, 15-year and 25-year periods were   14%  ,   8%  ,   6%  ,   8%  , and   8%  , respectively. Similar assessments were performed in determining rates of return on international pension plan assets to arrive at the Company s   2017   weighted-average rate of return of   4.04%  . 
    
  The medical cost trend rate of increase assumed in measuring the expected cost of benefits is projected to decrease from   6.00%   in   2018   to   4.75%   by   2023  , remaining at   4.75%   for the years thereafter. Changes in the assumed rate can have a significant effect on amounts reported. A 1% change in the assumed medical cost trend rate would have the following approximate effect: 

One percentage point 

Increase 
      
    Decrease 
      Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation 
      
    $ 
    123 

$ 
    (100 
    ) 
      Total of service and interest cost components 
      
    9 

(7 
    ) 

Expected mortality is a key assumption in the measurement of pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. For the Company s U.S. plans, this assumption was updated as of   December 31, 2016   in order to reflect the Society of Actuaries  updated mortality improvement scale published in October 2016. This resulted in a decrease of   1%   and   2%   to the benefit obligations for the Company s U.S. pension plans and other postretirement benefits, respectively. This assumption was previously updated for the Company s U.S. plans as of   December 31, 2015   in order to reflect the Society of Actuaries  mortality tables and mortality improvement scale published in October 2015 which resulted in a decrease of   1%   and   2%   to the benefit obligations for the Company s U.S. pension plans and other postretirement benefits, respectively. 

96 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

Plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets and plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as of December 31 consisted of the following: 

Summarized information regarding the net periodic benefit costs for the Company s defined benefit and other retiree benefit plans is as follows: 

Other postretirement charges in   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   include pension and other benefit enhancements amounting to   $21  ,   $4   and   $17   respectively, incurred pursuant to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. Other postretirement charges in 2017 and 2016 also includes charges of   $4   and $  11  , respectively, in part due to retirements under the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 

97 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

The Company made voluntary contributions of   $81  ,   $53   and   $0   in   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively, to its U.S. retirement plans. 
    
  The estimated actuarial loss and the estimated transition/prior service cost for defined benefit and other retiree benefit plans that will be amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year is as follows: 

Pension Plans 
      
    Other Retiree Benefit Plans 
      Net actuarial loss 
      
    $ 
    54 

$ 
    17 
      
      Net transition and prior service cost 

Expected Contributions and Benefit Payments 
    
  Management s best estimate of voluntary contributions the Company will make to its U.S. postretirement plans for the year ending December 31,   2018   is approximately   $75  . Actual funding may differ from current estimates depending on the variability of the market value of the assets as compared to the obligation and other market or regulatory conditions.   
    
  Total benefit payments to be paid to participants for the year ending December 31,   2018   from the Company s assets are estimated to be approximately   $82  . Total benefit payments expected to be paid to participants from plan assets, or directly from the Company s assets to participants in unfunded plans, are as follows: 

98 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

11.    Income Taxes 
    
  The components of Income before income taxes are as follows for the years ended December 31: 

The Provision for income taxes consists of the following for the years ended December 31: 

Temporary differences between accounting for financial statement purposes and accounting for tax purposes result in the current provision for taxes being higher (lower) than the total provision for income taxes as follows: 

99 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

The difference between the statutory U.S. federal income tax rate and the Company s global effective tax rate as reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Income is as follows: 

_________ 
            (1)   
    On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act (the  TCJA  or  U.S. tax reform ) was enacted which, among other things, lowered the U.S. corporate income tax rate to 21% from 35% and established a modified territorial system requiring a mandatory deemed repatriation tax on undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Beginning in 2018, the TCJA also requires a minimum tax on certain future earnings generated by foreign subsidiaries while providing for future tax-free repatriation of such earnings through a 100% dividends-received deduction. In accordance with ASC 740, Income Taxes, and Staff Accounting Bulletin 118, the Company recognized a provisional charge in the fourth quarter of 2017 of   $275   related to the TCJA based on its initial analysis using available information and estimates. The provisional charge is comprised of   $451   related to the one-time deemed repatriation of accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries and related withholding taxes and   $20   related primarily to the remeasurement of net deferred tax assets as a result of the reduction in the corporate income tax rate, which are offset by   $196   of income taxes which had been previously provided for planned repatriations of undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. As a result, applicable U.S. and foreign taxes have been provided on substantially all of the Company s accumulated earnings of foreign subsidiaries previously considered indefinitely reinvested. Given the significant complexity of the TCJA, anticipated guidance from the U.S. Treasury about implementing the TCJA and the potential for additional guidance from the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) or the FASB related to the TCJA or additional information becoming available, the Company s provisional charge may be adjusted during 2018 and is expected to be finalized no later than the fourth quarter of 2018. Other provisions of the TCJA that impact future tax years are still being assessed.   
               (2)   
    As a result of adopting ASU No. 2016-09  Compensation Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting,  effective January 1, 2017, the Company recognized excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation of   $47   (resulting from an increase in the fair value of an award from the grant date to the vesting or exercise date, as applicable) in the Provision for income taxes as a discrete item during the year ended December 31, 2017. These amounts may not necessarily be indicative of future amounts that may be recognized as any excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation recognized would be dependent on future stock price, employee exercise behavior and applicable tax rates. Prior to January 1, 2017, excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation were recognized in equity. See Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies - Recent Accounting Pronouncements for additional information. 
               (3)   
    The benefit from a tax matter in 2016 relates to several Supreme Court and Administrative Court rulings in a foreign jurisdiction allowing certain tax deductions which had the effect of reversing prior decisions. The charge for a tax matter in 2015 relates to several Supreme Court rulings in a foreign jurisdiction disallowing certain tax deductions which had the effect of reversing prior decisions.  
               (4)   
    The effective tax rate in 2016 included a   $210   U.S. income tax benefit recognized in the first quarter of 2016 principally related to changes in Venezuela s foreign exchange regime implemented in March 2016. Although, effective December 31, 2015, the operating results of CP Venezuela are no longer included in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements, under current tax rules, the Company is required to continue including CP Venezuela s results in its consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. In order to fully utilize the above mentioned   $210   tax benefit in 2016, the Company repatriated an incremental   $1,500   of earnings of foreign subsidiaries it previously considered indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S., and accordingly, recorded a tax charge of   $210   during the first quarter of 2016.  

100 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

The components of deferred tax assets (liabilities) are as follows at December 31: 

In addition, net tax benefit of   $37   in   2017  , net tax benefit of   $85   in   2016  , and net tax expense of   $78   in   2015    were recorded directly through equity. The net tax benefit in   2017   predominantly includes current and future tax impacts related to benefit plans. The amounts in 2016 and 2015 include current and future tax impacts related to employee equity compensation and benefit plans. 
    
  The Company uses a comprehensive model to recognize, measure, present and disclose in its financial statements uncertain tax positions that the Company has taken or expects to take on an income tax return. 

101 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

Unrecognized tax benefits activity for the years ended December 31,   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   is summarized below: 

If all of the unrecognized tax benefits for   2017   above were recognized, approximately   $205   would impact the effective tax rate and would result in a cash outflow of approximately   $185  . Although it is possible that the amount of unrecognized benefits with respect to our uncertain tax positions will increase or decrease in the next 12 months, the Company does not expect material changes. 
    
  The Company recognized approximately   $11  ,   $2   and   $2   of interest expense related to the above unrecognized tax benefits within income tax expense in   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. The Company had accrued interest of approximately   $28  ,   $17   and   $16   as of December 31,   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
    
  The Company and its subsidiaries file U.S. federal income tax returns as well as income tax returns in many state and foreign jurisdictions. All U.S. federal income tax returns through December 31, 2011 have been audited by the IRS and there are limited matters which the Company plans to appeal for years 2010 through 2011, the settlement of which is not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company s results of operations, cash flows or financial condition. With a few exceptions, the Company is no longer subject to U.S. state and local income tax examinations for income tax returns through December 31, 2011. In addition, the Company has subsidiaries in various foreign jurisdictions that have statutes of limitations for tax audits generally ranging from   three   to   six   years.  

102 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

12.    Earnings Per Share 
    
  For the years ended   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , earnings per share were as follows: 

Basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing net income available for common stockholders by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period.  
    
  Diluted earnings per common share is computed using the treasury stock method on the basis of the weighted-average number of shares of common stock plus the dilutive effect of potential common shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive potential common shares include outstanding stock options and restricted stock units. 
    
  As of   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , the average number of stock options that were anti-dilutive and not included in diluted earnings per share calculations were   11,056,725  ,   3,187,485   and   3,228,359  , respectively. As of   December 31, 2017  ,   2016   and   2015  , the average number of restricted stock units that were anti-dilutive and not included in diluted earnings per share calculations were   91  ,   2,693   and   120  , respectively. 

13.    Commitments and Contingencies 
    
  Minimum rental commitments under noncancellable operating leases, primarily for office and warehouse facilities, are   $188   in 2018,   $163   in 2019,   $143   in 2020,   $106   in 2021,   $93   in 2022 and   $44   thereafter. Rental expense amounted to   $211   in   2017  ,   $204   in   2016   and   $214   in   2015  . Capital leases included in fixed assets, contingent rentals and sublease income are not significant. The Company has various contractual commitments to purchase raw, packaging and other materials totaling approximately   $467   at   December 31, 2017  . 
    
  As a global company serving consumers in more than   200   countries and territories, the Company is routinely subject to a wide variety of legal proceedings. These include disputes relating to intellectual property, contracts, product liability, marketing, advertising, foreign exchange controls, antitrust and trade regulation, as well as labor and employment, pension, privacy, environmental and tax matters, and consumer class actions. Management proactively reviews and monitors the Company s exposure to, and the impact of, environmental matters. The Company is party to various environmental matters and, as such, may be responsible for all or a portion of the cleanup, restoration and post-closure monitoring of several sites. 
       
  The Company establishes accruals for loss contingencies when it has determined that a loss is probable and that the amount of loss, or range of loss, can be reasonably estimated. Any such accruals are adjusted thereafter as appropriate to reflect changes in circumstances. 

103 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

The Company also determines estimates of reasonably possible losses or ranges of reasonably possible losses in excess of related accrued liabilities, if any, when it has determined that a loss is reasonably possible and it is able to determine such estimates. For those matters disclosed below for which the amount of any potential losses can be reasonably estimated, the Company currently estimates that the aggregate range of reasonably possible losses in excess of any accrued liabilities is $  0   to approximately $  250   (based on current exchange rates). The estimates included in this amount are based on the Company s analysis of currently available information and, as new information is obtained, these estimates may change. Due to the inherent subjectivity of the assessments and the unpredictability of outcomes of legal proceedings, any amounts accrued or included in this aggregate amount may not represent the ultimate loss to the Company. Thus, the Company s exposure and ultimate losses may be higher or lower, and possibly significantly so, than the amounts accrued or the range disclosed above. 
    
  Based on current knowledge, management does not believe that the ultimate resolution of loss contingencies arising from the matters discussed herein will have a material effect on the Company s consolidated financial position or its ongoing results of operations or cash flows. However, in light of the inherent uncertainties noted above, an adverse outcome in one or more matters could be material to the Company s results of operations or cash flows for any particular quarter or year. 
    
  Brazilian Matters 
    
  There are certain tax and civil proceedings outstanding, as described below, related to the Company     s 1995 acquisition of the Kolynos oral care business from Wyeth (the      Seller     ). 
    
  The Brazilian internal revenue authority has disallowed interest deductions and foreign exchange losses taken by the Company s Brazilian subsidiary for certain years in connection with the financing of the Kolynos acquisition. The tax assessments with interest, penalties and any court-mandated fees, at the current exchange rate, are approximately   $165  . This amount includes additional assessments received from the Brazilian internal revenue authority in April 2016 relating to net operating loss carryforwards used by the Company s Brazilian subsidiary to offset taxable income that had also been deducted from the authority s original assessments. The Company has been disputing the disallowances by appealing the assessments since October 2001. Appeals are currently pending at the administrative level. In the event the Company is ultimately unsuccessful in its administrative appeals, further appeals are available within the Brazilian federal courts.  
    
  In September 2015, the Company lost one of its appeals at the administrative level and filed a lawsuit in Brazilian federal court. In February 2017, the Company lost an additional administrative appeal and filed a similar action in Brazilian federal court. Although there can be no assurances, management believes, based on the opinion of its Brazilian legal counsel, that the disallowances are without merit and that the Company should ultimately prevail. The Company is challenging these disallowances vigorously.  
    
  In July 2002, the Brazilian Federal Public Attorney filed a civil action against the federal government of Brazil, Laboratorios Wyeth-Whitehall Ltda. (the Brazilian subsidiary of the Seller) and the Company, as represented by its Brazilian subsidiary, in the 6th. Lower Federal Court in the City of S o Paulo, seeking to annul an April 2000 decision by the Brazilian Board of Tax Appeals that found in favor of the Seller s Brazilian subsidiary on the issue of whether it had incurred taxable capital gains as a result of the divestiture of Kolynos. The action seeks to make the Company s Brazilian subsidiary jointly and severally liable for any tax due from the Seller s Brazilian subsidiary. The case has been pending since 2002, and the Lower Federal Court has not issued a decision. Although there can be no assurances, management believes, based on the opinion of its Brazilian legal counsel, that the Company should ultimately prevail in this action. The Company is challenging this action vigorously. 

104 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

In December 2005, the Brazilian internal revenue authority issued to the Company s Brazilian subsidiary a tax assessment with interest, penalties and any court-mandated fees of approximately $  74  , at the current exchange rate, based on a claim that certain purchases of U.S. Treasury bills by the subsidiary and their subsequent disposition during the period 2000 to 2001 were subject to a tax on foreign exchange transactions. The Company had been disputing the assessment within the internal revenue authority s administrative appeals process. However, in November 2015, the Superior Chamber of Administrative Tax Appeals denied the Company s final administrative appeal and the Company has filed a lawsuit in the Brazilian federal court. In the event the Company is unsuccessful in this filing, further appeals are available within the Brazilian federal courts. Although there can be no assurances, management believes, based on the opinion of its Brazilian legal counsel, that the tax assessment is without merit and that the Company should ultimately prevail. The Company is challenging this assessment vigorously. 
    
  Competition Matters 
    
  Certain of the Company s subsidiaries have historically been subject to investigations, and, in some cases, fines by governmental authorities in a number of countries related to alleged competition law violations. Substantially all of these matters also involved other consumer goods companies and/or retail customers. The Company s policy is to comply with antitrust and competition laws and, if a violation of any such laws is found, to take appropriate remedial action and to cooperate fully with any related governmental inquiry. The status of pending competition law matters as of December 31, 2017 is set forth below. 

In December 2014, the French competition law authority found that   13   consumer goods companies, including the Company s French subsidiary, exchanged competitively sensitive information related to the French home care and personal care sectors, for which the Company s French subsidiary was fined   $57  . In addition, as a result of the Company s acquisition of the Sanex personal care business in 2011 from Unilever N.V. and Unilever PLC (together with Unilever N.V.,  Unilever ), pursuant to a Business and Share Sale and Purchase Agreement (the  Sale and Purchase Agreement ), the French competition law authority found that the Company s French subsidiary, along with Hillshire Brands Company (formerly Sara Lee Corporation ( Sara Lee )), were jointly and severally liable for fines of   $25   assessed against Sara Lee s French subsidiary. The Company is entitled to indemnification for this fine from Unilever as provided in the Sale and Purchase Agreement. The fines were confirmed by the Court of Appeal in October 2016. The Company is appealing the decision of the Court of Appeal on behalf of the Company and Sara Lee in the French Supreme Court. 

In July 2014, the Greek competition law authority issued a statement of objections alleging a restriction of parallel imports into Greece. The Company responded to this statement of objections. In July 2017, the Company received the decision from the Greek competition law authority in which the Company was fined   $11  . The Company is appealing the decision to the Greek courts.  
       
  Talcum Powder Matters 
    
  The Company has been named as a defendant in civil actions alleging that certain talcum powder products that were sold prior to 1996 were contaminated with asbestos. Most of these actions involve a number of co-defendants from a variety of different industries, including suppliers of asbestos and manufacturers of products that, unlike the Company s products, were designed to contain asbestos. As of   December 31, 2017  , there were   193   individual cases pending against the Company in state and federal courts throug  hout the United States as compared to     115     cases as of December 31, 2016. During the     year ended     December 31, 2017  ,     132     ne  w cases were filed and   54   cases were resolved by voluntary dismissal, appeal in the Company s favor or settlement. The value of settlements in the years presented was not material, either individually or in the aggregate, to each such period s results of operations.  
    
  The Company believes that a significant portion of its costs incurred in defending and resolving these claims will be covered by insurance policies issued by several primary and excess insurance carriers, subject to deductibles, exclusions, retentions and policy limits.  

105 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

While the Company and its legal counsel believe that these cases are without merit and intend to challenge them vigorously, there can be no assurances regarding the ultimate resolution of these matters. Since the amount of any potential losses from these cases currently cannot be reasonably estimated, the range of reasonably possible losses in excess of accrued liabilities disclosed above does not include any amount relating to these cases. 
    
  N8 
    
  The Company was a defendant in a lawsuit that was brought in Utah federal court by N8 Medical, Inc. ( N8 Medical ), Brigham Young University ( BYU ) and N8 Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( N8 Pharma ). The complaint, originally filed in November 2013, alleged breach of contract and other torts arising out of the Company s evaluation of a technology owned by BYU and licensed, at various times, to Ceragenix Pharmaceuticals, Inc., now in bankruptcy, N8 Medical and N8 Pharma. 
    
  In 2016, the Company resolved the claims brought by BYU and N8 Medical. These claims were each resolved in an amount that is not material to the Company s results of operations. In the first quarter of 2017, the court dismissed the claims of N8 Pharma and, in the third quarter of 2017, N8 Pharma appealed the decision. 
    
  ERISA Matter 
    
  In June 2016, a putative class action claiming that residual annuity payments made to certain participants in the Colgate-Palmolive Company Employees  Retirement Income Plan (the  Plan ) did not comply with the Employee Retirement Income Security Act was filed against the Plan, the Company and certain individuals in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. This action has been certified as a class action. The relief sought includes recalculation of benefits, pre- and post-judgment interest and attorneys  fees.  The Company is contesting this action vigorously. Since the amount of any potential loss from this case currently cannot be reasonably estimated, the range of reasonably possible losses in excess of accrued liabilities disclosed above does not include any amount relating to the case. 

106 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

14.    Venezuela 
    
  Effective December 31, 2015, the Company concluded it no longer met the accounting criteria for consolidation of CP Venezuela and began accounting for CP Venezuela using the cost method of accounting.  As such, effective December 31, 2015, the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheet no longer includes the assets and liabilities of CP Venezuela. As a result of this change in accounting, the Company recorded an aftertax charge of   $1,058   (  $1,084   pretax) or   $1.16   per diluted share in 2015. The charge primarily consists of an impairment of the Company s investment in CP Venezuela of   $952  , which includes intercompany receivables from CP Venezuela, and   $111   related to the reclassification of cumulative translation losses. Prior periods have not been restated and CP Venezuela s Net sales, Operating profit and Net income are included in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Income through December 31, 2015. 
    
  Since January 1, 2016, under the cost method of accounting, the Company no longer includes the local operating results of CP Venezuela in its Consolidated Financial Statements and includes income relating to CP Venezuela only to the extent it receives cash for sales of inventory to CP Venezuela or for dividends or royalties remitted by CP Venezuela, all of which have been immaterial. Although CP Venezuela s local operating results are no longer included in the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements for accounting purposes, under current tax rules, the Company is required to continue including CP Venezuela in its consolidated U.S. federal income tax return. In the first quarter of 2016, provision for income taxes included a   $210   U.S. income tax benefit principally related to changes in Venezuela s foreign exchange regime implemented in March 2016. See Note 11, Income Taxes for additional details.  
    
  Prior to the change in accounting, CP Venezuela s functional currency was the U.S. dollar since Venezuela had been designated hyper-inflationary and, as such, Venezuelan currency fluctuations were reported in income. The Company remeasured the financial statements of CP Venezuela at the end of each month at the rate at which it expected to remit future dividends which, based on the advice of legal counsel, was the SICAD rate (formerly known as the SICAD I rate). During the year ended December 31, 2015, the Company incurred pretax losses of   $34   (  $22   aftertax or   $0.02   per diluted common share) related to the remeasurement of CP Venezuela s local currency-denominated net monetary assets at the quarter-end SICAD rate for the second and third quarters of 2015. The SICAD rate did not revalue during the fourth quarter of 2015 and was   13.50   bolivares per dollar as of December 31, 2015. 
    
  Included in the remeasurement losses during 2015 were charges related to the devaluation-protected bonds issued by the Venezuelan government and held by CP Venezuela. Because the official exchange rate remained at   6.30   bolivares per dollar, the devaluation-protected bonds did not revalue at the SICAD rate but remained at the official exchange rate, resulting in an impairment in the fair value of the bonds. 

15.    Segment Information 
    
  The Company operates in   two   product segments: Oral, Personal and Home Care; and Pet Nutrition.  
    
  The operations of the Oral, Personal and Home Care product segment are managed geographically in   five   reportable operating segments: North America, Latin America, Europe, Asia Pacific and Africa/Eurasia. 
    
  The Company evaluates segment performance based on several factors, including Operating profit. The Company uses Operating profit as a measure of operating segment performance because it excludes the impact of Corporate-driven decisions related to interest expense and income taxes. 
    
  The accounting policies of the operating segments are generally the same as those described in Note 2, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies. Intercompany sales have been eliminated. Corporate operations include costs related to stock options and restricted stock units, research and development costs, Corporate overhead costs, restructuring and related implementation costs and gains and losses on sales of non-core product lines and assets. The Company reports these items within Corporate operations as they relate to Corporate-based responsibilities and decisions and are not included in the internal measures of segment operating performance used by the Company to measure the underlying performance of the operating segments.  

107 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

Approximately   75%   of the Company s Net sales are generated from markets outside the U.S., with approximately   50%   of the Company s Net sales coming from emerging markets (which consist of Latin America, Asia (excluding Japan), Africa/Eurasia and Central Europe). Oral, Personal and Home Care sales to Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its affiliates represent approximately   11%   of the Company s Net sales in 2017. No other customer represents more than 10% of Net sales. 
    
  In 2017, Corporate Operating profit (loss) includes charges of   $333   resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. In 2016, Corporate Operating profit (loss) includes charges of   $228   resulting from the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and   $17   for a litigation matter and a gain of   $97   on the sale of land in Mexico. In 2015, Corporate Operating profit (loss) included charges of   $1,084   related to the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations,   $254   related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program,   $34   related to the remeasurement of CP Venezuela s local currency-denominated net monetary assets as a result of effective devaluations and   $14   for a litigation matter and a gain of   $187   on the sale of the Company s laundry detergent business in the South Pacific. 

_________ 
    
    108 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

109 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

____________ 
            (1)   
    In   2017  , Corporate identifiable assets primarily consist of derivative instruments (  5%  ) and investments in equity securities (  86%  ). In   2016  , Corporate identifiable assets primarily consist of derivative instruments (  24%  ) and investments in equity securities (  68%  ). In   2015  , Corporate identifiable assets primarily consist of derivative instruments (  76%  ) and investments in equity securities (  23%  ).  

16.    Supplemental Income Statement Information 

110 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

17.    Supplemental Balance Sheet Information 
    
  Inventories by major class are as follows at December 31: 

Inventories valued under LIFO amounted to   $289   and   $278   at   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. The excess of current cost over LIFO cost at the end of each year was   $63   and   $30  , respectively. The liquidations of LIFO inventory quantities had no material effect on income in   2017  ,   2016   and   2015  . 

111 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

18.    Supplemental Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) Information 
    
  Other comprehensive income (loss) components attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company before tax and net of tax during the years ended December 31 were as follows: 

_________ 
            (1)   
    Represents reclassifications from Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) due to the deconsolidation of the Company s Venezuelan operations. Cumulative translation, net actuarial gain (loss) and unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities were reclassified into the Charge for Venezuela accounting change on the Consolidated Statement of Income.  
               (2)   
    These components of Other comprehensive income (loss) are included in the computation of total pension cost. See   Note 10  , Retirement Plans and Other Retiree Benefits for additional details. 
               (3)   
    For the year ended   December 31, 2015  , these amounts included pretax net losses of   $50   related to the remeasurement of the bolivar-denominated fixed interest rate bonds and the devaluation-protected bonds in Venezuela.  

112 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

(4)   
    Represents reclassification of losses on the Venezuela bonds into Other (income) expense, net due to an impairment in the fair value of the bonds as a result of the effective devaluations in the second and third quarters of 2015.  
               (5)   
    These (gains) losses are reclassified into Cost of sales. See   Note 7  , Fair Value Measurements and Financial Instruments for additional details. 
       
  There were no tax impacts on Other comprehensive income (loss) attributable to Noncontrolling interests. 
    
  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss) 
    
  Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) is comprised of cumulative foreign currency translation gains and losses, unrecognized pension and other retiree benefit costs, unrealized gains and losses from derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges and unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale securities. At   December 31, 2017   and   2016  , Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) consisted primarily of aftertax unrecognized pension and other retiree benefit costs of   $923   and   $977  , respectively, and cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments of   $2,927   and   $3,212  , respectively. Foreign currency translation adjustments in   2017   primarily reflect gains from the Euro. In   2016  , foreign currency translation adjustments primarily reflect losses from the Mexican peso and the Euro, partially offset by gains from the Brazilian real. 
  
    113 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

19.    Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 

____________ 
           Note: 
    Basic and diluted earnings per share are computed independently for each quarter and the year-to-date period presented. Accordingly, the sum of the quarterly earnings per common share may not necessarily equal the earnings per share for the year-to-date period. 
       
            (1)   
    Gross profit for the full year of   2017   includes   $75   of charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
               (2)   
    Net income including noncontrolling interests, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and Earnings per common share for the full year of   2017   include   $246   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and a   $275   charge related to U.S. tax reform. 
               (3)   
    Gross profit for the first quarter of   2017   includes   $14   of charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
               (4)   
    Net income including noncontrolling interests, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and Earnings per common share for the first quarter of   2017   include   $31   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
               (5)   
    Gross profit for the second quarter of   2017   includes   $21   of charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
               (6)   
    Net income including noncontrolling interests, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and Earnings per common share for the second quarter of   2017   include   $115   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
               (7)   
    Gross profit for the third quarter of   2017   includes   $16   of charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
     
    114 

    COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (continued) 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Share and Per Share Amounts) 

(8)   
    Net income including noncontrolling interests, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and Earnings per common share for the third quarter of   2017   include   $39   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
               (9)   
    Gross profit for the fourth quarter of   2017   includes   $24   of charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
               (10)   
    Net income including noncontrolling interests, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and Earnings per common share for the fourth quarter of   2017   include   $61   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and a   $275   charge related to U.S. tax reform. 
               (11)   
    Gross profit for the full year of   2016   includes   $46   of charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
               (12)   
    Net income including noncontrolling interests for the full year of   2016   includes   $169   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and Earnings per common share for the full year of   2016   include   $168   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, a   $63   aftertax gain on the sale of land in Mexico,   $11   of aftertax charges for a litigation matter and   $35   of benefits from tax matters. 
               (13)   
    Gross profit for the first quarter of   2016   includes   $8   of charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program.  
               (14)   
    Net income including noncontrolling interests, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and Earnings per common share for the first quarter of   2016   include   $38   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program.  
               (15)   
    In the first quarter of 2016, provision for income taxes included a   $210   U.S. income tax benefit principally related to changes in Venezuela s foreign exchange regime implemented in March 2016. In order to fully utilize the above mentioned   $210   tax benefit in 2016, the Company repatriated an incremental   $1,500   of earnings of foreign subsidiaries it previously considered indefinitely reinvested outside of the U.S., and accordingly, recorded a tax charge of   $210   during the first quarter of 2016. See Note 11, Income Taxes. 
               (16)   
    Gross profit for the second quarter of   2016   includes   $12   of charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
               (17)   
    Net income including noncontrolling interests for the second quarter of   2016   includes   $45   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and Earnings per common share for the second quarter of   2016   include   $44   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and a   $13   benefit from a tax matter. 
               (18)   
    Gross profit for the third quarter of   2016   includes   $11   of charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
               (19)   
    Net income including noncontrolling interests, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and Earnings per common share for the third quarter of   2016   include   $32   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, a   $63   aftertax gain on the sale of land in Mexico, a   $4   aftertax charge for a litigation matter and   $22   of benefits from tax matters. 
               (20)   
    Gross profit for the fourth quarter of   2016   includes   $15   of charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program. 
               (21)   
    Net income including noncontrolling interests, Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and Earnings per common share for the fourth quarter of   2016   include   $54   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and a   $7   aftertax charge for a litigation matter. 

115 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
  SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
  (Dollars in Millions) 

Additions 

Balance at Beginning of Period 
      
    Charged to Costs and Expenses 
      
    Other 
      
    Deductions 
      
    Balance at End of Period 
      Year Ended December 31, 2017 

Allowance for doubtful accounts and estimated returns 
      
    $ 
    73 

$ 
    8 

$ 

$ 
    4 

$ 
    77 
      
      Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets 
      
    $ 

$ 
    9 

$ 

$ 

$ 
    9 

Year Ended December 31, 2016 

Allowance for doubtful accounts and estimated returns 
      
    $ 
    59 

$ 
    18 

$ 

$ 
    4 

$ 
    73 
      
      Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets 
      
    $ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

Year Ended December 31, 2015 

Allowance for doubtful accounts and estimated returns 
      
    $ 
    54 

$ 
    7 

$ 

$ 
    2 

$ 
    59 
      
      Valuation allowance for deferred tax assets 
      
    $ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

$ 

116 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
    
  Market and Dividend Information 

The Company s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange and its trading symbol is CL. Dividends on the common stock have been paid every year since 1895, and the Company s regular common stock dividend payments have increased for 55 consecutive years. 

Dividends Paid Per Common Share 

117 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
    
  Market and Dividend Information 

Stock Price Performance Graphs 
    
  The following graphs compare cumulative total shareholder returns on Colgate-Palmolive Company common stock against the S P Composite-500 Stock Index and two peer company indices for the twenty-year, ten-year and five-year periods each ended December 31, 2017. The peer company indices are comprised of consumer products companies that have both domestic and international businesses. For 2017, the peer company index consisted of Campbell Soup Company, The Clorox Company, The Coca-Cola Company, ConAgra Brands, Inc., The Estee Lauder Companies, Inc., General Mills, Inc., Johnson   Johnson, Kellogg Company, Kimberly-Clark Corporation, The Kraft Heinz Company, Mondelez International, Inc., PepsiCo, Inc., The Procter   Gamble Company, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Unilever N.V. This index is identified as the  New Peer Group  on the graphs. Last year, the peer company index consisted of Avon Products, Inc., Campbell Soup Company, The Clorox Company, Coca-Cola Company, ConAgra Foods, Inc., Estee Lauder Companies, Inc., General Mills, Inc., Johnson   Johnson, Kellogg Company, Kimberly-Clark Corporation, The Kraft Heinz Company, Mondelez International, Inc., PepsiCo, Inc., The Procter   Gamble Company, Reckitt Benckiser Group plc and Unilever N.V. The prior year index is identified as the  Old Peer Group  on the graphs. 
    
  These performance graphs do not constitute soliciting material, are not deemed filed with the SEC and are not incorporated by reference in any of the Company s filings under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and irrespective of any general incorporation language in any such filing, except to the extent the Company specifically incorporates these performance graphs by reference therein.  

118 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
    
  Historical Financial Summary 
  For the years ended December 31, 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 
  (Unaudited) 

_________ 
           Note: 
    All per share amounts and numbers of shares outstanding were adjusted for the two-for-one stock split of the Company s common stock in 2013. 
          
            (1)   
    Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and earnings per common share for the full year of   2017   include   $246   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program and a   $275   charge related to U.S. tax reform. 

119 

COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
    
  Historical Financial Summary 
  For the years ended December 31, 
  (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 
  (Unaudited) 

(2)   
    Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and earnings per common share for the full year of   2016   include   $168   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, a   $63   aftertax gain on the sale of land in Mexico,   $11   of aftertax charges for a litigation matter and   $35   of benefits from tax matters. 
               (3)   
    Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and earnings per common share for the full year of   2015   include a   $1,058   aftertax charge related to the change in accounting for the Company s Venezuelan operations,   $183   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program,   $22   of aftertax charges related to the remeasurement of CP Venezuela s local currency-denominated net monetary assets as a result of effective devaluations,   $120   aftertax gain on the sale of the South Pacific laundry detergent business, a   $14   aftertax charge for a litigation matter and a   $15   charge for a tax matter. 
               (4)   
    Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and earnings per common share in 2014 include   $208   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program,   $214   of aftertax charges related to the remeasurement of CP Venezuela s local currency-denominated net monetary assets as a result of effective devaluations,   $41   of charges for litigation matters,   $3   of aftertax costs related to the sale of land in Mexico and a   $66   charge for a tax matter. 
               (5)   
    Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and earnings per common share in 2013 include   $278   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program, a   $111   aftertax charge related to the remeasurement of CP Venezuela s local currency-denominated net monetary assets as a result of a devaluation, a   $23   charge for a litigation matter and   $12   of aftertax costs related to the sale of land in Mexico. 
               (6)   
    Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and earnings per common share in 2012 include   $70   of aftertax charges related to the Global Growth and Efficiency Program,   $18   of aftertax costs related to the sale of land in Mexico and   $14   of aftertax costs associated with various business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives. 
               (7)   
    Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and earnings per common share in 2011 include an aftertax gain of   $135   on the sale of the non-core laundry detergent business in Colombia, offset by   $147   of aftertax costs associated with various business realignment and other cost-saving initiatives,   $9   of aftertax costs related to the sale of land in Mexico and a $21 charge for a litigation matter.  
               (8)   
    Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and earnings per common share in 2010 include a   $271   one-time charge related to the transition to hyperinflationary accounting in Venezuela, $61 of aftertax charges for termination benefits related to overhead reduction initiatives, a   $30   aftertax gain on sales of non-core product lines and a   $31   benefit related to the reorganization of an overseas subsidiary. 
               (9)   
    Net income attributable to Colgate-Palmolive Company and earnings per common share in 2008 include   $113   of aftertax charges related to the 2004 Restructuring Program. 

120 

<EX-10.A(B)>
 2
 exhibit10-ab12312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.A(B)

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 10-A (b) 
    
  NONQUALIFIED OPTION AWARD AGREEMENT 
  COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
    
  2013 INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 

[DATE], 20[__] 
    
   Title   First Name   Last Name  
  Colgate-Palmolive 
   Location  
    
  This Award Agreement (including, if applicable, the appendix hereto) will confirm the following Award of a Nonqualified Option made to you on [DATE], 20[__] by the Personnel and Organization Committee of the Board of Directors of Colgate-Palmolive Company (the  Company ) pursuant to the     2013 Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ).     Copies of the Plan, the Plan Prospectus and the Guidelines Regarding the Effect of Termination of Employment on Awards Granted under the Plan, adopted on March 13, 2014 (the  Termination Guidelines ) are available online via the Merrill Lynch Benefits OnLine  website which can be accessed at OurColgate.com under ColgatePeople, if you prefer to receive a paper copy, they are available from the Company at 300 Park Avenue, New York, NY, 10022, Attention: Ms. Jennifer M. Daniels, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary.  These are important documents with respect to your Award, and we urge you to take the time to review them.  Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. 
    
  The Company hereby grants you a Nonqualified Option to purchase from the Company up to a total of  #Shares  shares of the Company s common stock ( Shares ) at $xx.xx per Share. 
    
  This Nonqualified Option may be exercised only in accordance with the terms and conditions contained in or established pursuant to the Plan, as supplemented by this Award Agreement.  It vests, and may be exercised from time to time prior to its expiration, as follows: cumulatively as to one-third of the Shares on the first anniversary date of this Award Agreement and as to an additional one-third on each of the two succeeding anniversary dates. 
    
  The Company reserves the right to withhold from the Shares otherwise deliverable to you upon exercise by you of this Nonqualified Option a number of Shares having a Fair Market Value on the date of exercise equal to any amounts owed by you to the Company pursuant to any Company programs or policies.  The grant of this Nonqualified Option shall not obligate the Company or any of its Affiliates to continue your employment for any period or on any basis of compensation, including future grants of Options or other Awards.   
    
  This Award Agreement is subject to all of the terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions contained in or established pursuant to the Plan, the Termination Guidelines and, if applicable, the Company s Clawback Policy and all requirements of applicable law, including the provisions relating to the exercise and/or forfeiture of Options upon termination of employment.  Your acceptance of this Nonqualified Option shall constitute your acknowledgment of, and agreement to, all such terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions. 
    
  This Award Agreement may not be assigned or transferred in whole or in part except as provided in the Plan.  You shall not have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to any of the Shares which are the subject of this Award Agreement until you exercise the Nonqualified Option and such Shares are actually issued to you. 

- 1 - 

This Nonqualified Option shall expire at 12:01am on [Date], 20[__], or sooner, in the event of your termination of employment, as provided in the Plan and the Termination Guidelines.  This Nonqualified Option must be exercised by the close of the New York Stock Exchange on the last business day prior to this expiration date.  If this Nonqualified Option has not been exercised by 4:00pm (New York time) on the last business day prior to the expiration date, the Company will have the right to exercise such Nonqualified Option on your behalf and to deliver the resulting Shares, net of the exercise price and any applicable withholding taxes, to your limited brokerage account at Merrill Lynch or, if you do not have such an account, to a shareholder account in your name with the Company s transfer agent, Computershare. 
    
  The number of Shares and the exercise price per Share are subject to adjustment as provided in the Plan.  You assume all risks incident to any change in applicable laws or regulations and any change in the market value of Shares after the date of grant and after exercise of this Nonqualified Option in whole or in part. 
    
  Data Privacy  .  By accepting the Nonqualified Option, you explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use, transfer, holding, storage and disclosure in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Award Agreement and any other Award grant materials ( Data ) by and among, as applicable, the Company, its subsidiaries and Affiliates (collectively referred to in this Data Privacy section as the  Company ) and certain third party service providers including, but not limited to, Plan brokers, financial advisers and legal counsel,  engaged by the Company (collectively, the  Providers ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan     and complying with applicable laws, regulations and legislation.   
    
  You understand that the Data which may be collected, used, transferred, held, stored or disclosed by the Company and the Providers consists of certain Data about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other government identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all Options or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor.  You further understand that such collection, use, transfer, holding, storage or disclosure of the Data may be necessary for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan and complying with applicable laws, regulations and legislation.  You understand that the Company or the Providers may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the laws of the country in which the Company and the Providers collect, use, transfer, hold, store or disclose the Data may have different legal protections for the Data than your country.  However, regardless of the location of the Data, the Company protects the Data through reasonable physical, technical and administrative safeguards and requires that the Providers also have such safeguards in place.   
  You understand that you may, at any time, request a copy of your Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting your local human resources representative in writing.   You understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan as more fully described below.   
  You understand that you are providing the consent herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with your employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant Options or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards.  Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative. 
    
  This Award Agreement and related Nonqualified Option are governed by, and subject to, the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws, as provided in the Plan.  Any disputes involving this Award Agreement or the related Nonqualified Option will be heard and determined before the Delaware Court of Chancery or if not maintainable therein, then before an appropriate federal or state court located in Delaware, and  
  
   - 2 - 

you and the Company each agree to submit yourself and your respective property to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the foregoing courts with respect to such disputes, in each case, as permitted. 

Very truly yours, 
    
  COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
    
  By                  

- 3 - 

</EX-10.A(B)>

<EX-10.A(C)>
 3
 exhibit10-ac12312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.A(C)

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 10-A (c) 
    
  RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT 
  COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
    
  2013 INCENTIVE COMPENSATION PLAN 

[DATE], 20[__] 
    
   Title   First Name   Last Name  
  Colgate-Palmolive 
   Location  
     
  This Award Agreement (including, if applicable, the appendix hereto) will confirm the following Award of Restricted Stock Units made to you on [DATE], 20[__] by the Personnel and Organization Committee of the Board of Directors of Colgate-Palmolive Company (the  Company ) pursuant to the     2013 Incentive Compensation Plan (the  Plan ).     A copy of the Plan, the Plan Prospectus and the Guidelines Regarding the Effect of Termination of Employment on Awards Granted under the Plan, adopted on March 13, 2014 (the  Termination Guidelines ) are available on-line via the Merrill Lynch Benefits OnLine  website which can be accessed at OurColgate.com under ColgatePeople, or if you prefer to receive a paper copy, they are available from the Company at 300 Park Avenue, New York, NY  10022, Attention:  Ms. Jennifer M. Daniels, Chief Legal Officer and Secretary.  These are important documents with respect to your Award, and we urge you to take the time to review them.  Capitalized terms used in this Award Agreement that are not defined in this Award Agreement have the meanings as used or defined in the Plan. 
    
  You have been granted an Award of  #Units  Restricted Stock Units. 
    
  This Award is subject to the terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions contained in or established pursuant to the Plan, the Termination Guidelines and, if applicable, the Company s Clawback Policy and all requirements of applicable law, including the provisions relating to the forfeiture of Restricted Stock Units upon termination of employment.  Your acceptance of the Award shall constitute your acknowledgment of, and agreement to, all such terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions.       
    
  Receiving shares of the Company s common stock ( Shares ) is contingent upon your continued employment with the Company during the vesting period as defined in the following sentence (the  Vesting Period )  . Your shares will vest /$VestingDescription$/ from /$GrantDate$/.   During the Vesting Period, Dividend Equivalents will be credited on Restricted Stock Units in the form of additional Restricted Stock Units. Except as otherwise provided in the Plan or in the Termination Guidelines, contingent upon your continued employment, at the end of the Vesting Period, the Award plus Dividend Equivalents will be paid to you in the form of Shares, less any required tax withholding that becomes due during or at the end of the Vesting Period.  The Company reserves the right to withhold from the Shares otherwise deliverable to you at the end of the Vesting Period a number of Shares having a Fair Market Value on the vesting date sufficient to cover any amounts owed by you to the Company pursuant to any Company programs or policies.   
    
  The grant of this Restricted Stock Unit Award shall not obligate the Company or any of its Affiliates to continue your employment for any period or on any basis of compensation, including future grants of Restricted Stock Units or other Awards. 

-1- 

This Award may not be assigned or transferred in whole or in part except as provided in the Plan.  You shall not have any of the rights of a shareholder with respect to any of the Shares underlying this Award until this Award vests and Shares are actually issued to you. 
    
  The number of Restricted Stock Units included in your award is subject to adjustment as provided in the Plan.  You assume all risks incident to any change in applicable laws or regulations and any change in the market value of Shares after the date of grant of the Award and after vesting. 
       
  Data Privacy  .  By accepting the Restricted Stock Units, you explicitly and unambiguously consent to the collection, use, transfer, holding, storage and disclosure in electronic or other form, of your personal data as described in this Award Agreement and any other Award grant materials ( Data ) by and among, as applicable, the Company, its subsidiaries and Affiliates (collectively referred to in this Data Privacy section as the  Company ) and certain third party service providers including, but not limited to, Plan brokers, financial advisers and legal counsel, engaged by the Company (collectively, the  Providers ) for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan     and complying with applicable laws, regulations and legislation.   
    
  You understand that the Data which may be collected, used, transferred, held, stored or disclosed by the Company and the Providers consists of certain Data about you, including, but not limited to, your name, home address, telephone number, date of birth, social insurance number or other government identification number, salary, nationality, job title, any Shares or directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Stock Units or any other entitlement to Shares awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor.  You further understand that such collection, use, transfer, holding, storage or disclosure of the Data may be necessary for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan and complying with applicable laws, regulations and legislation.  You understand that the Company or the Providers may be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the laws of the country in which the Company and the Providers collect, use, transfer, hold, store or disclose the Data may have different legal protections for the Data than your country.  However, regardless of the location of the Data, the Company protects the Data through reasonable physical, technical and administrative safeguards and requires that the Providers also have such safeguards in place.   
  You understand that you may, at any time, request a copy of your Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting your local human resources representative in writing.   You understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan as more fully described below.   
  You understand that you are providing the consent herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If you do not consent, or if you later seek to revoke your consent, your employment status or service and career with your employer will not be adversely affected; the only adverse consequence of refusing or withdrawing your consent is that the Company would not be able to grant Restricted Stock Units or other equity awards or administer or maintain such awards.  Therefore, you understand that refusing or withdrawing your consent may affect your ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of your refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, you understand that you may contact your local human resources representative. 

-2- 

This Award Agreement and related Restricted Stock Unit Award are governed by, and subject to, the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws, as provided in the Plan.  Any disputes involving this Award Agreement or the related Restricted Stock Unit Award will be heard and determined before the Delaware Court of Chancery or if not maintainable therein, then before an appropriate federal or state court located in Delaware, and you and the Company each agree to submit yourself and your respective property to the non-exclusive jurisdiction of the foregoing courts with respect to such disputes, in each case, as permitted. 

Very truly yours, 
    
  COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
    
  By                  

-3- 

</EX-10.A(C)>

<EX-10.K>
 4
 exhibit10-k12312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.K

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 10-K 

INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT 

This Agreement, made and entered into as of this ____ day of ___________, 20__ (   Agreement   ), by and between Colgate-Palmolive Company, a Delaware corporation (   Company   ), and   ________   (   Indemnitee   ). 
    
    WHEREAS, highly competent persons are becoming more reluctant to serve publicly-held corporations as directors, officers or in other capacities unless they are provided with adequate protection through insurance or adequate indemnification against inordinate risks of claims and actions against them arising out of their service to and activities on behalf of the corporation; and 
    
    WHEREAS, the current impracticability of obtaining adequate insurance and the uncertainties relating to indemnification have increased the difficulty of attracting and retaining such persons; and 
    
    WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company has determined that the inability to attract and retain such persons is detrimental to the best interests of the Company s stockholders and that the Company should act to assure such persons that there will be increased certainty of such protection in the future; and 
    
    WHEREAS, it is reasonable, prudent and necessary for the Company contractually to obligate itself to indemnify such persons to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law so that they will serve or continue to serve the Company free from undue concern that they will not be so indemnified; and 
    
    WHEREAS, Indemnitee is willing to serve, continue to serve and to take on additional service for or on behalf of the Company on the condition that Indemnitee be so indemnified; 
    
    NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the covenants contained herein, the Company and Indemnitee do hereby covenant and agree as follows: 

ARTICLE I - DEFINITIONS 
    
    For purposes of this Agreement the following terms shall have the meaning given here: 
    
    1.01           Board    shall mean the Board of Directors of the Company. 
    
    1.02           Change of Control    shall mean the happening of any of the following events: 
    
           (i) 
    An acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) (a    Person   ) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of 20% or more of either (A) the then-outstanding shares of common stock of the Company (the    Outstanding Company Common Stock   ) or (B) the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the    Outstanding Company Voting Securities    excluding, however, the following: (1) any acquisition directly from the Company, other than an acquisition by virtue of the exercise of a conversion privilege unless the security being so converted itself 
     
   1 

was acquired directly from the Company, (2) any repurchase by the Company, (3) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any entity controlled by the Company, or (4) any acquisition pursuant to a transaction that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of subsection (iii) of this Section 1.02; or 
    
           (ii) 
    A change in the composition of the Board such that the individuals who, as of the Effective Date, constitute the Board (such Board shall be hereinafter referred to as the    Incumbent Board   ) cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board;   provided  ,   however  , that, for purposes of this Section 1.02(ii) any individual who becomes a member of the Board subsequent to the Effective Date, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of those individuals who are members of the Board and who were also members of the Incumbent Board (or deemed to be such pursuant to this proviso) shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board;   provided  ,   further  , that any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of either an actual or threatened election contest (as such terms are used in Rule 14a-11 of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board shall not be so considered as a member of the Incumbent Board; or 
       
           (iii) 
    The consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (   Corporate Transaction    excluding, however, such a Corporate Transaction pursuant to which (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who are the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction will beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 60% of, respectively, the outstanding shares of common stock, and the combined voting power of the then-outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction (including, without limitation, a corporation that as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company s assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Corporate Transaction, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no Person (other than the Company, any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction) will beneficially own, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction or the combined voting power of the outstanding voting securities of such corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors except to the extent that such ownership derives from ownership of a 20% or more interest in the Outstanding Company Common Stock and/or Outstanding Company Voting Security that existed prior to the Corporate Transaction, and (C) individuals who were members of the Incumbent Board will constitute at least a majority of the members of the board of directors of the corporation resulting from such Corporate Transaction; or  
       
           (iv) 
    the approval by shareholders of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company. 
     
   2 

1.03           Company    shall mean Colgate-Palmolive Company, and shall include, in addition to any corporation resulting from or surviving any consolidation or merger, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, employees, agents, trustees, partners, managers, members or fiduciaries so that if Indemnitee is or was a director, officer, employee, agent, trustee, partner, manager, member or fiduciary of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee, agent, trustee, partner, manager, member or fiduciary of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, Indemnitee shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Agreement with respect to the resulting or surviv-ing corporation as Indemnitee would have with respect to such con-stituent corporation if its separate exis-tence had continued. 
    
    1.04           Corporate Status    describes the status of a person who is or was a director, officer, employee, fiduciary or agent of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, trustee, partner, manager, member, fiduciary or agent of any other Enterprise.  For purposes of this Agreement, it is understood that service by an employee of the Company at the Company s request as a fiduciary, administrator or member of an administrative committee of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to constitute Corporate Status for such individual. 
    
    1.05           Disinterested Director    means a director of the Company who is not and was not a party to the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by Indemnitee. 
    
    1.06           Effective Date    means the date of this Agreement. 
    
    1.07           Enterprise    shall mean the Company and any other corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise of which Indemnitee is or was serving at the request of the Company in a Corporate Status. 
    
    1.08           Expenses    shall include all reasonable attorneys  fees and costs, retainers, court costs, transcript costs, fees of experts, witness fees, private investigations, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees, and all other disbursements or expenses of the types customarily paid or incurred in connection with prosecuting, defending, preparing to prosecute or defend, investigating, or being or preparing to be a witness in, or otherwise participating in, a Proceeding or in connection with seeking indemnification under this Agreement.  Expenses also shall include Expenses paid or incurred in connection with any appeal resulting from any Proceeding, including, without limitation the premium, security for, and other costs relating to any cost bond, supersedeas bond, or other appeal bond or its equivalent.   
    
    1.09           Good Faith    shall mean Indemnitee having acted in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Company and, with respect to any criminal Proceeding, having had no reasonable cause to believe Indemnitee s conduct was unlawful.  An Indemnitee who acted in good faith and in a manner he or she reasonably believed to be in the best interests of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner  not opposed to the best interests of the Company  as referred to under applicable law or in this Agreement. 

3 

1.10           Independent Counsel    means a law firm, or a member of a law firm, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither presently is, nor in the past three years has been, retained to represent:  (i) the Company or Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party or (ii) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term  Independent Counsel  shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or Indemnitee in an action to determine Indemnitee s rights under this Agreement. 
    
    1.11           Losses    shall mean all loss, liability, judgments, damages, amounts paid in settlement, fines, penalties (whether civil, criminal or otherwise) or, with respect to an employee benefit plan, excise taxes or penalties assessed with respect thereto, including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of any of the foregoing. 
       
    1.12           Person    shall mean any individual, corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise. 
       
    1.13           Proceeding    includes any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, claim, demand, arbitration, alternate dispute resolution mechanism, investigation, inquiry, administrative hearing or any other actual, threatened or completed proceeding, including any and all appeals, whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or other nature, in which Indemnitee was, is or will be involved as a party or otherwise by reason of or relating to Indemnitee s Corporate Status, by reason of or relating to any action or alleged action taken by him or her (or failure or alleged failure to act) or of any action or alleged action (or failure or alleged failure to act) on his or her part while acting as director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company, or by reason of the fact that he or she is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, agent, trustee, partner, manager, member or fiduciary of any other Enterprise, in each case whether or not serving in such capacity at the time any liability or expense is paid or incurred for which indemnification, reimbursement, or payment in advance of expenses can be provided under this Agreement; other than one initiated by Indemnitee without board approval.  For purposes of the foregoing sentence, a  Proceeding  shall not be deemed to have been initiated by Indemnitee where Indemnitee seeks to enforce Indemnitee s rights under this Agreement. 
    
    1.14        References to  serving at the request of the Company  shall include any service as a director, officer, employee, fiduciary or agent of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee, fiduciary or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries. 
    
  ARTICLE II - TERM OF AGREEMENT 
    
    This Agreement shall continue until and terminate upon the latest of:  (i) the statute of limitations applicable to any claim that could be asserted against an Indemnitee with respect to which Indemnitee may be entitled to indemnification and/or payment of Expenses in advance under this Agreement, (ii) 10 years after the date that Indemnitee shall have ceased to serve as a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company or to serve at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, trustee, partner, member, fiduciary or agent of any other Enterprise, or (iii) one year after the final termination of all pending Proceedings in respect of which Indemnitee is granted rights of indemnification or advancement of Expenses hereunder and of any proceeding commenced by Indemnitee pursuant to Article VIII of this Agreement relating thereto (including any right of appeal with respect to any proceeding commenced by Indemnitee with respect to Article VIII). 

4 

ARTICLE III - SERVICES BY INDEMNITEE, NOTICE OF PROCEEDINGS 
    
    3.01        Services  .  Indemnitee may at any time and for any reason resign from Indemnitee s current or future positions as a director, officer, employee, fiduciary or agent of the Company or otherwise terminate the Indemnitee s Corporate Status (subject to any other contractual obligation or any obligation imposed by operation of law), in which event the Company shall have no obligation under this Agreement to continue Indemnitee in such position.  This Agreement shall not be deemed an employment contract between the Company (or any of its subsidiaries or any Enterprise) and Indemnitee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement shall continue in force after Indemnitee s Corporate Status has terminated as provided herein. 
    
    3.02        Notice of Proceeding  .  Indemnitee agrees promptly to notify the Company in writing upon being served with any summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information or other document relating to any Proceeding or matter which may be subject to indemnification or advancement of Expenses covered hereunder;   provided  ,   however  , that a delay in giving such notice shall not deprive Indemnitee of any right to be indemnified under this Agreement unless, and then only to the extent that, the Company did not otherwise learn of the claim and such delay is materially prejudicial to the Company s ability to defend such claim; and,   provided  ,   further   that notice shall be deemed to have been given without any action on the part of Indemnitee in the event that the Company is a party to the same Proceeding.  The omission to notify the Company will not relieve the Company from any liability for indemnification which it may have to Indemnitee otherwise than under this Agreement.   

ARTICLE IV - INDEMNIFICATION 
    
    4.01        In General  .  In connection with any Proceeding, the Company shall indemnify, and advance Expenses to, Indemnitee as provided in this Agreement and to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law in effect on the date hereof and to such greater extent as applicable law may thereafter from time to time permit. 
    
    4.02        Proceedings Other Than Proceedings by or in the Right of the Company  .  Indemnitee shall be entitled to the rights of indemnification provided in this Section 4.02 if, by reason of Indemnitee s Corporate Status, Indemnitee was or is, or was or is threatened to be made, a party to or a participant (as a witness or otherwise) or otherwise involved in any Proceeding, other than a Proceeding by or in the right of the Company.  Indemnitee shall be indemnified against Expenses and Losses (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of such Expenses or Losses), actually and reasonably paid or incurred by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee s behalf in connection with such Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein, if Indemnitee acted in Good Faith. 
    
    4.03        Proceedings by or in the Right of the Company  .  Indemnitee shall be entitled to the rights of indemnification provided in this Section 4.03 if, by reason of Indemnitee s Corporate Status, Indemnitee was or is, or was or is threatened to be made, a party to or a participant (as a witness or otherwise) or otherwise involved in any Proceeding brought by or in the right of the Company to procure a judgment in its favor.  Indemnitee shall be indemnified against Expenses and Losses (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of such Expenses or Losses), actually and reasonably paid or incurred by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee s behalf in connection with such Proceeding or any claim, issue or matter therein, if Indemnitee acted in Good Faith.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter in such Proceeding as to which Indemnitee shall have been finally adjudged to be liable to the  
  
   5 

Company if applicable law prohibits such indemnification;   provided  ,   however   that, if applicable law so permits, indemnification shall nevertheless be made by the Company in such event if and only to the extent that the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware, or the court in which such Proceeding shall have been brought or is pending, shall determine. 
    
    4.04        Indemnification of a Party Who is Wholly or Partly Successful  .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee was or is, by reason of Indemnitee s Corporate Status, a party to (or a participant or otherwise involved in) and is successful, on the merits or otherwise, in any Proceeding, in whole or in part, Indemnitee shall be indemnified to the maximum extent permitted by law, against all Expenses and Losses (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of such Expenses or Losses), actually and reasonably paid or incurred by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee s behalf in connection therewith.  If Indemnitee is not wholly successful in such Proceeding but is successful, on the merits or otherwise, as to one or more but less than all claims, issues or matters in such Proceeding, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee to the maximum extent permitted by law, against all Expenses and Losses (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of such Expenses or Losses), actually and reasonably incurred or paid by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee s behalf in connection with each successfully resolved claim, issue or matter.  For purposes of this Section 4.04 and without limitation, the termination of any claim, issue or matter in such a Proceeding by dismissal, with or without prejudice, shall be deemed to be a successful result as to such claim, issue or matter, so long as there has been no finding (either adjudicated or pursuant to Article VI) that Indemnitee did not act in Good Faith. 
    
    4.05        Indemnification for Expenses of a Witness  .  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee is, by reason of Indemnitee s Corporate Status, a witness in any Proceeding, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses actually and reasonably paid or incurred by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee s behalf in connection therewith. 

ARTICLE V - PAYMENT IN ADVANCE OF EXPENSES 
    
    Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in Article VI, the Company shall pay in advance of the final disposition of a Proceeding all reasonable Expenses which, by reason of Indemnitee s Corporate Status, were incurred by or on behalf of Indemnitee in connection with any Proceeding, within twenty days after the receipt by the Company of a statement or statements from Indemnitee requesting such payment (or such earlier time specified in Section 8.06), whether prior to or after final disposition of such Proceeding.  Such statement or statements shall reasonably evidence the Expenses incurred by Indemnitee and, if required by law, shall include or be preceded or accompanied by an undertaking by or on behalf of Indemnitee to repay any Expenses if it shall ultimately be determined that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified against such Expenses.  Payments in advance of the final determination shall be made without regard to Indemnitee s ability to repay the Expenses and without regard to Indemnitee s ultimate entitlement to indemnification under the other provisions of this Agreement.  Any undertaking to repay pursuant to this Article V shall be unsecured and interest free. 

ARTICLE VI - PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINATION OF ENTITLEMENT 
    
    6.01        Initial Request  .  To obtain indemnification under this Agreement, Indemnitee shall submit to the Company a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to Indemnitee and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent  
  
   6 

Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification.  The Secretary of the Company shall promptly advise the Board in writing that Indemnitee has requested indemnification. 
    
    6.02        Method of Determination  .  A determination (if required by applicable law) with respect to Indemnitee s entitlement to indemnification shall be made as follows: 
    
           (a) 
    if a Change of Control has occurred, unless Indemnitee shall request in writing that such determination be made in accordance with clause (b) of this Section 6.02, the determination shall be made by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board, a copy of which shall be delivered to Indemnitee; 
       
           (b) 
    if a Change of Control has not occurred, the determination shall be made by the Board by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of Disinterested Directors.  In the event that a quorum of the Board consisting of Disinterested Directors is not obtainable or, even if obtainable, such quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, the determination shall be made by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board, a copy of which shall be delivered to Indemnitee. 
       
  For the sake of clarity, to the fullest extent permitted by law, no determination of entitlement shall be required to the extent that (i) Indemnitee is successful, on the merits or otherwise (including by dismissal with or without prejudice, as set forth in Section 4.04), in any Proceeding or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, in whole or in part or (ii) indemnification is pursuant to Section 4.05. 
    
    6.03        Selection, Payment, Discharge of Independent Counsel  .  In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 6.02 of this Agreement, the Independent Counsel shall be selected, paid, and discharged in the following manner: 
    
           (a) 
    If a Change of Control has not occurred, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by the Board, and the Company shall give written notice to Indemnitee advising Indemnitee of the identity of the Independent Counsel so selected. 
       
           (b) 
    If a Change of Control has occurred, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by Indemnitee (unless Indemnitee shall request that such selection be made by the Board, in which event clause (a) of this section shall apply), and Indemnitee shall give written notice to the Company advising it of the identity of the Independent Counsel so selected. 
       
           (c) 
    Following the initial selection described in clauses (a) and (b) of this Section 6.03, Indemnitee or the Company, as the case may be, may, within 7 days after such written notice of selection has been given, deliver to the other party a written objection to such selection.  Such objection may be asserted only on the ground that the Independent Counsel so selected does not meet the requirements of  Independent Counsel  as defined in Section 1.10 of this Agreement, and the objection shall set forth with particularity the factual basis of such assertion.  Absent a proper and timely objection, the person so selected shall act as Independent Counsel.  If such written objection is made, the Independent Counsel so selected may not serve as Independent Counsel unless and until a court has determined that such objection is without merit. 

7 

(d) 
    Either the Company or Indemnitee may petition the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware or other court of competent jurisdiction if the parties have been unable to agree on the selection of Independent Counsel within 30 days after submission by Indemnitee of a written request for indemnification pursuant to Section 6.01 of this Agreement.  Such petition may request a determination whether an objection to the party s selection is without merit and/or seek the appointment as Independent Counsel of a person selected by the court or by such other person as the court shall designate.  A person so appointed shall act as Independent Counsel under this Agreement. 
       
           (e) 
    The Company shall pay any and all reasonable fees and expenses of Independent Counsel incurred by such Independent Counsel in connection with acting pursuant to this Agreement, and the Company shall pay all reasonable fees and expenses incident to the procedures of this Section 6.03, regardless of the manner in which such Independent Counsel was selected or appointed irrespective of the determination as to Indemnitee s entitlement to indemnification. 
       
           (f) 
    Upon the due commencement of any judicial proceeding or arbitration pursuant to Section 8.02 of this Agreement, Independent Counsel shall be discharged and relieved of any further responsibility in such capacity (subject to the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing). 
       
    6.04        Cooperation  .  Indemnitee shall cooperate with the person, persons or entity making the determination with respect to Indemnitee s entitlement to indemnification under this Agreement, including providing to such person, persons or entity upon reasonable advance request any documentation or information which is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and which is reasonably available to Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such determination.  Any costs or expenses (including attorneys  fees and disbursements) paid or incurred by Indemnitee in so cooperating with the person, persons or entity making such determination shall be borne by the Company (irrespective of the determination as to Indemnitee s entitlement to indemnification) and the Company hereby indemnifies and agrees to hold Indemnitee harmless therefrom. 
    
    6.05        Payment  .  If it is determined that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, payment to Indemnitee shall be made within ten (10) days after such determination. 

ARTICLE VII - PRESUMPTIONS AND EFFECT OF CERTAIN PROCEEDINGS 
    
    7.01        Burden of Proof  .  In making a determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification hereunder, the person or persons or entity making such determination shall presume that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification under this Agreement if Indemnitee has submitted a request for indemnification in accordance with Section 6.01 of this Agreement, and the Company shall have the burden of proof to overcome that presumption in connection with the making by any person, persons or entity of any determination contrary to that presumption.  Neither the failure of the Company (including by its directors or Independent Counsel) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of any action pursuant to this Agreement that indemnification is proper in the circumstances because Indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct, nor an actual determination by the Company (including by its directors or Independent Counsel) that Indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct. 
  
   8 

7.02        Effect of Other Proceedings  .  The termination of any Proceeding or of any claim, issue or matter therein, by judgment, order, settlement or conviction, or upon a plea of   nolo     contendere   or its equivalent, shall not (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement) of itself adversely affect the right of Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that Indemnitee did not act in Good Faith. 
    
    7.03        Reliance as Safe Harbor  .  For purposes of any determination of Good Faith, Indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in Good Faith if Indemnitee s action is based on the records or books of account of the Enterprise, including financial statements, or on information supplied to Indemnitee by the officers of the Enterprise in the course of their duties, or on the advice of legal counsel for the Enterprise or on information or records given or reports made to the Enterprise by an independent certified public accountant or by an appraiser or other expert selected by the Enterprise.  The provisions of this Section 7.03 shall not be deemed to be exclusive or to limit in any way the other circumstances in which the Indemnitee may be deemed to have met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in this Agreement. 
    
    7.04        Actions of Others  .  The knowledge and/or actions, or failure to act, of any director, officer, agent, trustee, partner, manager, member, fiduciary or employee of the Enterprise shall not be imputed to Indemnitee for purposes of determining the right to indemnification under this Agreement. 
    
    7.05        Default Determination  .  If the person, persons or entity empowered or selected under Article VI of this Agreement to determine whether Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification shall not have made a determination within thirty (30) days after his, her or their empowerment or selection, the requisite determination of entitlement to indemnification shall be deemed to have been made and Indemnitee shall be entitled to such indemnification, absent (1) a misstatement by Indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a material fact necessary to make Indemnitee s statement not materially misleading, in connection with the request for indemnification, or (2) a final judicial determination that any or all such indemnification is expressly prohibited under applicable law;   provided  ,   however  , that such 30-day period may be extended for a reasonable time, not to exceed an additional fifteen (15) days, if the person, persons or entity making the determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification in good faith requires such additional time for the obtaining or evaluating of documentation and/or information relating thereto. 
       
  ARTICLE VIII - REMEDIES OF INDEMNITEE 
    
           8.01        Application  .  This Article VIII shall apply in the event of a Dispute.  For purposes of this Article,    Dispute    shall mean any of the following events: 
    
           (a) 
    a determination is made pursuant to Article VI of this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement; 
       
           (b) 
    payment in advance of Expenses is not timely made pursuant to Article V or Section 8.06 of this Agreement; 
       
           (c) 
    the determination of entitlement to be made pursuant to Section 6.02 of this Agreement has not been made within 30 days (or such later date as may be permitted under Section 7.05) after receipt by the Company of the request for indemnification (but without prejudice to Indemnitee s rights under Section 7.05); 
       
           (d) 
    payment of indemnification is not made pursuant to Section 4.05 of this Agreement within ten (10) days after receipt by the Company of a written request therefor; or 
     
   9 

(e) 
    payment of indemnification is not made within ten (10) days after a determination has been made that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification or such determination is deemed to have been made pursuant to Article VI of this Agreement. 
       
    8.02        Adjudication  .  In the event of a Dispute, Indemnitee shall be entitled to an adjudication in an appropriate court of the State of Delaware, or in any other court of competent jurisdiction, of Indemnitee s entitlement to such indemnification or advancement of Expenses.  Alternatively, Indemnitee, at Indemnitee s option, may seek an award in arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the rules of the American Arbitration Association.  Indemnitee shall commence such proceeding seeking an adjudication or an award in arbitration within 180 days following the date on which Indemnitee first has the right to commence such proceeding pursuant to this Article VIII.  The Company shall not oppose Indemnitee s right to seek any such adjudication or award in arbitration. 
    
    8.03        De     Novo   Review  .  In the event that a determination shall have been made pursuant to Article VI of this Agreement that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification, any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Article VIII shall be conducted in all respects as a   de     novo   trial, or arbitration, on the merits and Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of that adverse determination.  In any such proceeding or arbitration, the Company shall have the burden of proving that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses, as the case may be, and the Company may not refer to or introduce evidence of any determination pursuant to Article VI of this Agreement adverse to Indemnitee for any purpose.  If Indemnitee commences a judicial proceeding or arbitration pursuant to this Article VIII, Indemnitee shall not be required to reimburse the Company for any payments in advance pursuant to Article V until a final determination is made with respect to Indemnitee s entitlement to indemnification (as to which all rights of appeal have been exhausted or lapsed). 
    
    8.04        Company Bound  .  If a determination shall have been made or deemed to have been made pursuant to Article VI of this Agreement that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding or arbitration absent (i) a misstatement by Indemnitee of a material fact, or an omission of a material fact necessary to make Indemnitee s statement not materially misleading, in connection with the request for indemnification, or (ii) a prohibition of such indemnification under applicable law. 
    
    8.05        Procedures Valid  .  The Company shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Article VIII that the procedures and presumptions of this Agreement are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Agreement. 
    
    8.06        Expenses of Adjudication  .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, the Company shall, to the fullest extent permitted under law, indemnify and hold harmless Indemnitee against any and all Expenses and, if requested by Indemnitee, shall (within five (5) days after receipt by the Company of a written request therefor), to the fullest extent permitted under law, pay in advance such Expenses to Indemnitee, which are paid or incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any judicial proceeding or arbitration brought by Indemnitee to enforce his or her rights under, or to recover damages for breach of this Agreement or any other indemnification, payment in advance or contribution agreement or provision of the Company s Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws as in effect from time to time or under any directors  and officers  liability insurance policies maintained by the Company, regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be entitled to such indemnification, payment in advance, contribution or insurance recovery, as the case may be. 

10 

8.07        Interest  .  Interest shall be paid by the Company to Indemnitee at the legal rate under Delaware law for amounts which the Company indemnifies or is obliged to indemnify for the period commencing with the date on which Indemnitee requests indemnification, contribution, reimbursement or payment in advance of any Expenses and ending with the date on which such payment is made to Indemnitee by the Company. 

ARTICLE IX - NON-EXCLUSIVITY, INSURANCE, SUBROGATION 
    
    9.01        Non-Exclusivity  .  The rights of indemnification and to receive payment in advance of Expenses as provided by this Agreement shall not be deemed to be exclusive of any other rights to which Indemnitee may at any time be entitled under applicable law, the Company s Certificate of Incorporation, the Company s By-Laws, any agreement, a vote of stockholders or a resolution of directors, or otherwise.  To the extent Indemnitee otherwise would have any greater right to indemnification or payment in advance of expenses under any other provisions under applicable law, the Company s Certificate of Incorporation, the Company s By-laws, any agreement, a vote of stockholders, a resolution of directors or otherwise, Indemnitee will be deemed to have such greater right hereunder.  To the extent that a change in Delaware law, whether by statute or judicial decision, permits greater indemnification or payment in advance of Expenses than would be afforded currently under the Company s By-laws and this Agreement, it is the intent of the parties hereto that Indemnitee shall enjoy, and Indemnitee shall enjoy, by this Agreement the greater benefits so afforded by such change.  No right or remedy herein conferred is intended to be exclusive of any other right or remedy, and every other right and remedy shall be cumulative and in addition to every other right and remedy given hereunder or now or hereafter existing at law or in equity or otherwise.  The assertion or employment of any right or remedy hereunder, or otherwise, shall not prevent the concurrent assertion or employment of any other right or remedy. 
    
    9.02        Insurance  .  The Company may maintain an insurance policy or policies against liability arising out of this Agreement or otherwise.   
    
    9.03        Subrogation  .  In the event of any payment under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee, who shall execute all papers required and take all action necessary to secure such rights, including execution of such documents as are necessary to enable the Company to bring suit to enforce such rights (it being understood that all of Indemnitee s reasonable Expenses, including attorneys  fees and expenses, related thereto shall be borne by the Company). 
    
    9.04        No Duplicative Payment  .  The Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment of amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder if and to the extent that Indemnitee has otherwise actually received such payment under any insurance policy, contract, agreement or otherwise. 

ARTICLE X - GENERAL PROVISIONS 
    
    10.01        Successors and Assigns  .  This Agreement shall be binding upon the Company and its successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of Indemnitee and Indemnitee s heirs, executors and administrators. 
    
    10.02        Severability  .  If any provision or provisions of this Agreement shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: 

11 

(a) 
    the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Agreement (including without limitation, each portion of any Section of this Agreement containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby;  
       
           (b) 
    such provision or provisions shall be deemed reformed to the extent necessary to conform to applicable law and to give the maximum effect to the intent of the parties hereto; and 
       
           (c) 
    to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Agreement (including, without limitation, each portion of any Section of this Agreement containing any such provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable. 
       
    10.03        No Adequate Remedy  .  The parties declare that it is impossible to measure in money the damages which will accrue to either party by reason of a failure to perform any of the obligations under this Agreement.  Therefore, if either party shall institute any action or proceeding to enforce the provisions hereof, such party against whom such action or proceeding is brought hereby waives the claim or defense that such party has an adequate remedy at law, and such party shall not urge in any such action or proceeding the claim or defense that the other party has an adequate remedy at law. 
    
    10.04        Identical Counterparts  .  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original but all of which together shall constitute one and the same Agreement.  Only one such counterpart signed by the party against whom enforceability is sought needs to be produced to evidence the existence of this Agreement. 
    
    10.05        Headings  .  The headings of the paragraphs of this Agreement are inserted for convenience only and shall not be deemed to constitute part of this Agreement or to affect the construction thereof. 
    
    10.06        Modification and Waiver  .  No supplement, modification or amendment of this Agreement shall be binding unless executed in writing by both of the parties hereto.  No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions hereof (whether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver. 
    
    10.07        Notices  .  All notices, requests, demands and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given if (i) delivered by hand and receipted for by the party to whom said notice or other communication shall have been directed, or (ii) mailed by certified or registered mail with postage prepaid, on the third business day after the date on which it is so mailed: 
  
   12 

If to Indemnitee to: 
    
    As shown with Indemnitee s Signature below. 
    
    If to the Company to: 
    
    Colgate-Palmolive Company 
    300 Park Avenue 
    New York, New York 10022 
    Attention:  Office of the Chief Legal Officer 
    
  or to such other address as may have been furnished to Indemnitee by the Company or to the Company by the Indemnitee, as the case may be. 
    
    10.08        Governing Law  .  The parties agree that this Agreement shall be governed by, and construed and enforced in accordance with, the laws of the State of Delaware without application of the conflict of laws principles thereof.   
    
    10.09        Settlement  .  The Company shall not, without the prior written consent of Indemnitee, consent to the entry of any judgment against Indemnitee or enter into any settlement or compromise of a Proceeding that (1) includes an admission of fault by Indemnitee, any non-monetary remedy affecting, or obligation of, Indemnitee, or monetary loss for which Indemnitee is not wholly indemnified hereunder or (2) with respect to any Proceeding with respect to which Indemnitee is made a party, does not include, as an unconditional term thereof, the full release of Indemnitee from all liability in respect of such Proceeding, which release shall be in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Indemnitee.  The Indemnitee shall not unreasonably withhold its consent to any proposed settlement;   provided   that Indemnitee may withhold consent to any settlement that does not provide a full and unconditional release of Indemnitee from all liability in respect of such Proceeding. 
    10.10        Entire Agreement  .  This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement and understanding between the parties hereto in reference to all the matters herein agreed upon.  This Agreement replaces in full all prior indemnification agreements or understandings of the parties hereto, and any and all such prior agreements or understandings are hereby rescinded by mutual agreement and shall have no further force and effect, including with respect to acts or omissions occurring prior to the date of this Agreement.   
    
    10.11        Effectiveness of Agreement  .   This Agreement shall be effective as of the date set forth on the first page and may apply to acts or omissions of Indemnitee which occurred prior to such date if Indemnitee was an officer, director, employee, fiduciary or other agent of the Company, or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, trustee, partner, manager, member, fiduciary or agent of another Enterprise, at the time such act or omission occurred. 
    10.12        Contribution  .  To the fullest extent permissible under applicable law, if the indemnification provided for in this Agreement is unavailable to Indemnitee for any reason whatsoever, the Company, in lieu of indemnifying Indemnitee, shall contribute to the amount paid or incurred by Indemnitee, whether for Losses and/or for Expenses, in connection with any claim relating to an indemnifiable event under this Agreement, in such proportion as is deemed fair and reasonable in light of all of the circumstances of such Proceeding in order to reflect (1) the relative benefits received by the Company (and its officers, directors, employees or agents), on the one hand, and Indemnitee, on the other hand, as a result of the event(s) and/or transaction(s) giving cause to such Proceeding; and/or (2) the 
  
   13 

relative fault of the Company (and its directors, officers, employees and agents), on the one hand, and Indemnitee, on the other hand, in connection with such event(s) and/or transaction(s). 
    
    IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Agreement on the day and year first above written. 
    
  COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 

By                  

INDEMNITEE                  

Print Name:           
  Print Address:                  

14 

</EX-10.K>

<EX-12>
 5
 exhibit1212312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 12

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 12 
    
  COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
  COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 
    
  (Dollars in Millions Except Per Share Amounts) 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 6
 exhibit2112312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 21 
    
  COLGATE-PALMOLIVE COMPANY 
  SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT 
                 Name of Company 
    Jurisdiction of Organization 
      Colgate (Guangzhou) Company Limited 
    China 
      Colgate Flavors and Fragrances, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Colgate Holdings 
    United Kingdom 
      Colgate Oral Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Colgate-Palmolive (Middle East Exports) Ltd. 
    BVI 
      Colgate-Palmolive Europe Sarl 
    Switzerland 
      Colgate-Palmolive, Unipessoal, Lda. 
    Portugal 
      Colgate-Palmolive Peru S.A. 
    Peru 
      Colgate Sanxiao Company Limited 
    China 
      Colgate-Palmolive S.p.A. 
    Italy 
      Colgate-Palmolive (America), Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Colgate-Palmolive (Asia) Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Colgate-Palmolive (Caribbean) Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Colgate-Palmolive (Central America), Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Colgate-Palmolive (Dominican Republic), Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Colgate-Palmolive (Eastern) Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Colgate-Palmolive (China) Co. Ltd. 
    China 
      Colgate-Palmolive (H.K.) Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Colgate-Palmolive (Hellas) S.A.I.C. 
    Greece 
      *Colgate-Palmolive (India) Limited 
    India 
      Colgate-Palmolive (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 
      Colgate Palmolive (Marketing) Sdn Bhd 
    Malaysia 
      Colgate-Palmolive (Poland) SP. Zo.o. 
    Poland 
      Colgate-Palmolive (Proprietary) Limited 
    South Africa 
      Colgate-Palmolive (Thailand) Limited 
    Thailand 
      Colgate-Palmolive A/S 
    Denmark 
      Colgate-Palmolive AB 
    Sweden 
      Colgate-Palmolive Argentina S.A. 
    Argentina 
      Colgate-Palmolive Belgium SA/NV 
    Belgium 
      Colgate-Palmolive Canada Inc. 
    Canada 
      Colgate-Palmolive Ceska republika, s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      Colgate-Palmolive S.A. 
    Chile 
      Colgate-Palmolive Cia. 
    Delaware 
      Colgate-Palmolive C.A. 
    Venezuela 
      Colgate-Palmolive Company, Distr. LLC 
    Puerto Rico 
      Colgate-Palmolive de Puerto Rico, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Colgate-Palmolive del Ecuador Sociedad Anonima Industrial Y Comercial 
    Ecuador 
      Colgate-Palmolive Espa a, S.A./N.V. 
    Spain 
      Colgate-Palmolive GmbH 
    Germany 
      Colgate-Palmolive Holding S. Com p.a. 
    Spain 
      Colgate-Palmolive Inc. S.A. 
    Uruguay 
      Colgate-Palmolive IHQ Services (Thailand) Limited 
    Thailand 
      Colgate Palmolive (Myanmar) Limited 
    Myanmar 
      Colgate-Palmolive Ghana Limited 
    Ghana 
      CP West East Investment Limited 
    Nigeria 
      Colgate-Palmolive (Middle East Exports) Limited 
    United Arab Emirates 

EXHIBIT 21 
    
                 Name of Company 
    Jurisdiction of Organization 
      Colgate-Palmolive Comercial Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Colgate-Palmolive International LLC 
    Delaware 
      Colgate-Palmolive Lanka (Private) Limited 
    Sri Lanka 
      Colgate-Palmolive Limited 
    New Zealand 
      Colgate-Palmolive Manufacturing (Poland) SP. ZO.O 
    Poland 
      Colgate-Palmolive Moroc S.A. 
    Morocco 
      Colgate-Palmolive Nederland BV 
    Netherlands 
      Colgate-Palmolive Norge AS 
    Norway 
      Colgate-Palmolive Operations (Ireland) Ltd. 
    Ireland 
      Colgate-Palmolive Philippines, Inc. 
    Philippines 
      Colgate-Palmolive Pty Limited 
    Australia 
      Colgate-Palmolive Senegal S.A. 
    Senegal 
      Colgate-Palmolive Services (Belgium) S.A./N.V. 
    Belgium 
      Colgate-Palmolive Services S.A. 
    France 
      Colgate-Palmolive Temizlik Urunleri Sanayi ve Ticaret Anonim Sirketi 
    Turkey 
      Colgate-Palmolive (Vietnam) Limited 
    Vietnam 
      Colgate-Palmolive, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Cotelle S.A. 
    France 
      CPIF Venture, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      GABA International Holding GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      *Hawley   Hazel Chemical (Taiwan) Corp. Ltd. 
    Taiwan 
      *Hawley   Hazel Chemical Company (Hong Kong) Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      *Hawley   Hazel Chemical Company (Zhong Shan) Limited 
    China 
      Hill     s Pet Nutrition Asia Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Hill     s Pet Nutrition Asia-Pacific, Pte. Ltd. 
    Singapore 
      Hill s Pet Nutrition Indiana, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Hill s Pet Nutrition Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Hill s Pet Nutrition Manufacturing B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Hill s Pet Nutrition Manufacturing, s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      Hill s Pet Nutrition Sales, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Hill s Pet Nutrition S.N.C. 
    France 
      Hill s Pet Nutrition, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Hill s Pet Products, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Hill s-Colgate (Japan) Ltd. 
    Japan 
      Hill s Pet Nutrition Thailand Limited 
    Thailand 
      Inmobiliara Colpal, S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Inmobiliara Hills, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Mission Hills, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Norwood International, Incorporated 
    Delaware 
      Tom     s of Maine, Inc. 
    Maine 

* Indicates a company that is not wholly owned, directly or indirectly, by Colgate-Palmolive Company. 
    
  There are a number of additional subsidiaries in the United States and foreign countries that, considered in the aggregate, do not constitute a significant subsidiary. 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 exhibit2312312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 23 
    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (No. 333-221172) and Form S-8 (Nos. 33-58746, 33-64753, 333-45679, 333-132038, 333-159885, 333-171448, and 333-188528) of Colgate-Palmolive Company of our report dated February 15, 2018 relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10-K. 

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 

New York, New York 
  February 15, 2018 

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 8
 exhibit2412312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 24

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 24 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: 
    
    I, Charles A. Bancroft, do hereby make, constitute and appoint Jennifer M. Daniels and Kristine Hutchinson, and each of them, as my attorneys-in-fact and agents with full power of substitution for me and in my name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to execute for me and on my behalf the Annual Report of Colgate-Palmolive Company on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and any and all amendments thereto and any other documents in connection therewith, and to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing necessary and proper to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents and/or either of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
    
    In witness whereof, I have executed this Power of Attorney this 15th day of February, 2018. 

/s/ Charles A. Bancroft  
      Name: Charles A. Bancroft 

EXHIBIT 24 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: 
    
    I, John P. Bilbrey, do hereby make, constitute and appoint Jennifer M. Daniels and Kristine Hutchinson, and each of them, as my attorneys-in-fact and agents with full power of substitution for me and in my name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to execute for me and on my behalf the Annual Report of Colgate-Palmolive Company on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and any and all amendments thereto and any other documents in connection therewith, and to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing necessary and proper to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents and/or either of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
    
    In witness whereof, I have executed this Power of Attorney this 15th day of February, 2018. 

/s/ John P. Bilbrey 
      Name: John P. Bilbrey 

EXHIBIT 24 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: 
    
    I, John T. Cahill, do hereby make, constitute and appoint Jennifer M. Daniels and Kristine Hutchinson, and each of them, as my attorneys-in-fact and agents with full power of substitution for me and in my name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to execute for me and on my behalf the Annual Report of Colgate-Palmolive Company on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and any and all amendments thereto and any other documents in connection therewith, and to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing necessary and proper to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents and/or either of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
    
    In witness whereof, I have executed this Power of Attorney this 15th day of February, 2018. 

/s/ John T. Cahill 
      Name: John T. Cahill 

EXHIBIT 24 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: 
    
    I, Helene D. Gayle, do hereby make, constitute and appoint Jennifer M. Daniels and Kristine Hutchinson, and each of them, as my attorneys-in-fact and agents with full power of substitution for me and in my name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to execute for me and on my behalf the Annual Report of Colgate-Palmolive Company on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and any and all amendments thereto and any other documents in connection therewith, and to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing necessary and proper to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents and/or either of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
    
    In witness whereof, I have executed this Power of Attorney this 15th day of February, 2018. 
    
               /s/ Helene D. Gayle 
      Name: Helene D. Gayle 

EXHIBIT 24 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: 
    
    I, Ellen M. Hancock, do hereby make, constitute and appoint Jennifer M. Daniels and Kristine Hutchinson, and each of them, as my attorneys-in-fact and agents with full power of substitution for me and in my name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to execute for me and on my behalf the Annual Report of Colgate-Palmolive Company on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and any and all amendments thereto and any other documents in connection therewith, and to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing necessary and proper to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents and/or either of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
    
    In witness whereof, I have executed this Power of Attorney this 15th day of February, 2018. 

/s/ Ellen M. Hancock 
      Name: Ellen M. Hancock 

EXHIBIT 24 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: 
    
    I, C. Martin Harris, do hereby make, constitute and appoint Jennifer M. Daniels and Kristine Hutchinson, and each of them, as my attorneys-in-fact and agents with full power of substitution for me and in my name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to execute for me and on my behalf the Annual Report of Colgate-Palmolive Company on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and any and all amendments thereto and any other documents in connection therewith, and to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing necessary and proper to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents and/or either of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
    
    In witness whereof, I have executed this Power of Attorney this 15th day of February, 2018. 

/s/ C. Martin Harris 
      Name: C. Martin Harris 

EXHIBIT 24 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: 
    
    I, Lorrie M. Norrington, do hereby make, constitute and appoint Jennifer M. Daniels and Kristine Hutchinson, and each of them, as my attorneys-in-fact and agents with full power of substitution for me and in my name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to execute for me and on my behalf the Annual Report of Colgate-Palmolive Company on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and any and all amendments thereto and any other documents in connection therewith, and to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing necessary and proper to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents and/or either of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
    
    In witness whereof, I have executed this Power of Attorney this 15th day of February, 2018. 

/s/ Lorrie M. Norrington 
      Name: Lorrie M. Norrington 

EXHIBIT 24 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: 
    
    I, Michael B. Polk, do hereby make, constitute and appoint Jennifer M. Daniels and Kristine Hutchinson, and each of them, as my attorneys-in-fact and agents with full power of substitution for me and in my name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to execute for me and on my behalf the Annual Report of Colgate-Palmolive Company on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and any and all amendments thereto and any other documents in connection therewith, and to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing necessary and proper to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents and/or either of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
    
    In witness whereof, I have executed this Power of Attorney this 15th day of February, 2018. 

/s/ Michael B. Polk 
      Name: Michael B. Polk 

EXHIBIT 24 

POWER OF ATTORNEY 

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS: 
    
    I, Stephen I. Sadove, do hereby make, constitute and appoint Jennifer M. Daniels and Kristine Hutchinson, and each of them, as my attorneys-in-fact and agents with full power of substitution for me and in my name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to execute for me and on my behalf the Annual Report of Colgate-Palmolive Company on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017, and any and all amendments thereto and any other documents in connection therewith, and to file the same with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing necessary and proper to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as I might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents and/or either of them may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
    
    In witness whereof, I have executed this Power of Attorney this 15th day of February, 2018. 

/s/ Stephen I. Sadove 
      Name: Stephen I. Sadove 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.A>
 9
 exhibit31a12312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.A

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31-A 
    
  I, Ian Cook, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Colgate-Palmolive Company; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
       
           (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 15, 2018  
    
               /s/ Ian Cook 
      Ian Cook 
      Chairman of the Board, President and 
  Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.A>

<EX-31.B>
 10
 exhibit31b12312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.B

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31-B 
    
  I, Dennis J. Hickey, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Colgate-Palmolive Company; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
       
           (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: February 15, 2018 
    
               /s/ Dennis J. Hickey 
      Dennis J. Hickey 
      Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.B>

<EX-32>
 11
 exhibit3212312017.htm
 EXHIBIT 32

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32 
    
  The undersigned Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Colgate-Palmolive Company each certify, pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 18 U.S.C.   1350, that: 
    
           (1) 
    the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2017 (the  Annual Report ) which this statement accompanies, fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and 
       
           (2) 
    information contained in the Annual Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Colgate-Palmolive Company. 
       
  Date: February 15, 2018  
               /s/ Ian Cook 
      Ian Cook 
      Chairman of the Board, President and  
  Chief Executive Officer 
        
      /s/ Dennis J. Hickey 
      Dennis J. Hickey 
      Chief Financial Officer 

A signed original of this written statement has been provided to Colgate-Palmolive Company and will be retained by Colgate-Palmolive Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 cl-20171231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 cl-20171231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 cl-20171231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 cl-20171231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 cl-20171231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 cl-20171231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

