<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20100226_10-K_edgar_data_895421_0001193125-10-042763_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>15088958</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>972650</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>673349</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4130149</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4148771</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>4293974</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>386</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>20</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-10-042763.hdr.sgml : 20100226
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20100226153434
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-10-042763
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		29
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20091231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20100226
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20100226

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MORGAN STANLEY
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000895421
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS & FLOTATION COMPANIES [6211]
		IRS NUMBER:				363145972
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-11758
		FILM NUMBER:		10638905

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1585 BROADWAY
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10036
		BUSINESS PHONE:		212-761-4000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		1585 BROADWAY
		CITY:			NEW YORK
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10036

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	MORGAN STANLEY DEAN WITTER & CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19980326

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	DEAN WITTER DISCOVER & CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19960315

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 C5ZFZhxuLFcKGkrYZqxlXSYKRBhc8RWP/KlsX8AwsA7JEIooGyh240EULrhD/r8T
 0bP7TL+pvCHfWtrNXRoa9Q==

 0001193125-10-042763.txt : 20100226

10-K
 1
 d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

         UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      Washington, D.C. 20549      FORM 10-K      Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934       For the year ended December 31, 2009       Commission File Number 1-11758   

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)         
 
    Indicate by check mark if
Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. YES     NO          Indicate by check mark if Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. YES     NO          Indicate by check mark whether Registrant
(1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has
been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES     NO          Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule
405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes     No          Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation
S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.          Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):   

Large Accelerated Filer         Non-Accelerated Filer         (Do not check if
a smaller reporting company)   
     
    Accelerated Filer         Smaller reporting company            Indicate by check mark whether Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 12b-2). YES    
NO          As of June 30, 2009, the aggregate market value of the common stock of Registrant
held by non-affiliates of Registrant was approximately $38,566,093,047. This calculation does not reflect a determination that persons are affiliates for any other purposes.      As of January 31, 2010, there were 1,398,087,044 shares of Registrant s common stock, $0.01 par value, outstanding.       Documents Incorporated By Reference:  Portions of Registrant s definitive proxy statement for its 2010 annual meeting of shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form
10-K.   

Table of Contents  

ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K       for the year ended December 31, 2009          

Table of Contents  

Page    

Part I     

Item 1.   
     
   Business   
      
  1   

Overview    
      
  1   

Available Information    
      
  1   

Business Segments    
      
  2   

Institutional Securities    
      
  2   

Global Wealth Management Group    
      
  5   

Asset Management    
      
  6   

Research    
      
  7   

Competition    
      
  7   

Supervision and Regulation    
      
  8   

Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley    
      
  15   
 
    Item 1A.   
     
   Risk Factors   
      
  17   
 
    Item 1B.   
     
   Unresolved Staff Comments   
      
  25   
 
    Item 2.   
     
   Properties   
      
  26   
 
    Item 3.   
     
   Legal Proceedings   
      
  27   
 
    Item 4.   
     
   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders   
      
  29   

Part II     

Item 5.   
     
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

30   
 
    Item 6.   
     
   Selected Financial Data   
      
  33   
 
    Item 7.   
     
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   
      
  35   

Introduction    
      
  35   

Executive Summary    
      
  37   

Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations    
      
  44   

Equity Capital-Related Transactions    
      
  46   

Business Segments    
      
  47   

Accounting Developments    
      
  64   

Regulatory Outlook    
      
  64   

Other Matters    
      
  66   

Critical Accounting Policies    
      
  68   

Liquidity and Capital Resources    
      
  74   
 
    Item 7A.   
     
   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk   
      
  89   
 
    Item 8.   
     
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data   
      
  112   

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm    
      
  112   

Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition    
      
  113          
   i   

Table of Contents  

Page   

Consolidated Statements of Income    
      
  115   

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income    
      
  116   

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows    
      
  117   

Consolidated Statements of Changes in Total Equity    
      
  118   

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements    
      
  120   

Financial Data Supplement (Unaudited)    
      
  230   
 
  Item 9.  
     
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure    
      
  235   
 
  Item 9A.  
     
     Controls and Procedures    
      
  235   
 
  Item 9B.  
     
     Other Information    
      
  237   

Part III     

Item 10.  
     
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance    
      
  238   
 
  Item 11.  
     
     Executive Compensation    
      
  238   
 
  Item 12.  
     
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
Matters    
      
  239   
 
  Item 13.  
     
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence    
      
  239   
 
  Item 14.  
     
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services    
      
  239   

Part IV     

Item 15.  
     
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules     
      
  240   

Signatures    
      
  S-1   

Exhibit Index    
      
  E-1          
   ii   

Table of Contents  

    Forward-Looking Statements             We have included or incorporated by reference into this report, and from time to
time may make in our public filings, press releases or other public statements, certain statements, including (without limitation) those under  Legal Proceedings  in Part I, Item 3,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in Part II, Item 7 and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  in Part II, Item 7A, that may constitute  forward-looking statements  within the
meaning of the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In addition, our management may make forward-looking statements to analysts, investors, representatives of the media and others. These forward-looking
statements are not historical facts and represent only Morgan Stanley s beliefs regarding future events, many of which, by their nature, are inherently uncertain and beyond our control.            The nature of Morgan Stanley s business makes predicting the future trends
of our revenues, expenses and net income difficult. The risks and uncertainties involved in our businesses could affect the matters referred to in such statements and it is possible that our actual results may differ from the anticipated results
indicated in these forward-looking statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ from those in the forward-looking statements include (without limitation):         

the effect of political and economic conditions and geopolitical events;            

the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income and credit markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and
residential) lending and commercial real estate investments;            

the impact of current, pending and future legislation, regulation, and legal actions in the U.S. and worldwide;            

the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices and interest rates, currency values and other market indices;

the availability and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to Morgan Stanley s unsecured short-term and long-term
debt;            

investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets;            

our reputation;            

the actions and initiatives of current and potential competitors;            

technological changes; and            

other risks and uncertainties detailed under  Competition  and  Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1,  Risk
Factors  in Part I, Item 1A, and elsewhere throughout this report.               Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. Morgan Stanley undertakes no obligation to update publicly
or revise any forward-looking statements to reflect the impact of circumstances or events that arise after the dates they are made, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise except as required by applicable law. You should,
however, consult further disclosures Morgan Stanley may make in future filings of its Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q and Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments thereto or in future press releases or other public
statements.         
   iii   

Table of Contents  

      Part I                Item 1.    Business.  
              Overview.             Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that, through its
subsidiaries and affiliates, provides its products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. Morgan Stanley was originally incorporated under
the laws of the State of Delaware in 1981, and its predecessor companies date back to 1924. Morgan Stanley is a financial holding company regulated by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Fed ) under the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, as amended (the  BHC Act ). Morgan Stanley conducts its business from its headquarters in and around New York City, its regional offices and branches throughout the U.S. and its principal offices in London, Tokyo, Hong
Kong and other world financial centers. At December 31, 2009, Morgan Stanley had 61,388* employees worldwide. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms  Morgan Stanley,  the  Company,   we,   us 
and  our  mean Morgan Stanley and its consolidated subsidiaries.            On December 16, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a change in the Company s fiscal year end from November 30 to December 31 of each year, beginning January 1, 2009. As a result of the change, the
Company had a one month transition reporting period in December 2008. Financial information concerning Morgan Stanley, its business segments and geographic regions for each of the 12 months ended December 31, 2009 ( 2009 ),
November 30, 2008 ( fiscal 2008 ), November 30, 2007 ( fiscal 2007 ) and the one month ended December 31, 2008 is included in the consolidated financial statements and the notes thereto in  Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data  in Part II, Item 8.               Available Information.             Morgan Stanley files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ). You may read and copy any document we file with the SEC at the SEC s
public reference room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for information on the public reference room. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy and
information statements and other information that issuers (including Morgan Stanley) file electronically with the SEC. Morgan Stanley s electronic SEC filings are available to the public at the SEC s internet site,  www.sec.gov .
           Morgan Stanley s internet site is
 www.morganstanley.com . You can access Morgan Stanley s Investor Relations webpage at  www.morganstanley.com/about/ir . Morgan Stanley makes available free of charge, on or through its Investor Relations webpage, its proxy
statements, Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ),
as soon as reasonably practicable after such material is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the SEC. Morgan Stanley also makes available, through its Investor Relations webpage, via a link to the SEC s internet site, statements of
beneficial ownership of Morgan Stanley s equity securities filed by its directors, officers, 10% or greater shareholders and others under Section 16 of the Exchange Act.            Morgan Stanley has a Corporate Governance webpage. You can access information about Morgan Stanley s corporate governance
at  www.morganstanley.com/about/company/governance . Morgan Stanley posts the following on its Corporate Governance webpage:         

Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation;          

Amended and Restated Bylaws;                

*  
  Worldwide employees includes headcount related to the Morgan Stanley Smith Barney joint venture.           
   1   

Table of Contents  

Charters for its Audit Committee; Internal Audit Subcommittee; Compensation, Management Development and Succession Committee; Nominating and Governance
Committee; and Risk Committee;            

Corporate Governance Policies;            

Policy Regarding Communication with the Board of Directors;            

Policy Regarding Director Candidates Recommended by Shareholders;            

Policy Regarding Corporate Political Contributions;          

Policy Regarding Shareholder Rights Plan;            

Code of Ethics and Business Conduct;            

Code of Conduct; and            

Integrity Hotline information.               Morgan Stanley s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief
Financial Officer and Finance Director and Controller. Morgan Stanley will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct and any waivers that are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the New York Stock Exchange
LLC ( NYSE ) on its internet site. You can request a copy of these documents, excluding exhibits, at no cost, by contacting Investor Relations, 1585 Broadway, New York, NY 10036 (212-761-4000). The information on Morgan Stanley s
internet site is not incorporated by reference into this report.               Business Segments.             Morgan Stanley is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. A summary of the activities
of each of the business segments follows.              Institutional
Securities   includes capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in
equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; and investment activities.              Global Wealth Management Group  , which includes the Company s 51% interest in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC ( MSSB ),
provides brokerage and investment advisory services to individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other insurance products;
credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.              Asset Management   provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments, which includes hedge
funds and funds of funds, and merchant banking, which includes real estate, private equity and infrastructure, to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third-party distribution channels. Asset Management also engages in investment
activities.               Institutional Securities.
            Morgan Stanley provides financial advisory and
capital-raising services to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional clients globally, primarily through wholly owned subsidiaries that include Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated ( MS Co. ), Morgan
Stanley   Co. International plc, Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. and Morgan Stanley Asia Limited. These and other subsidiaries also conduct sales and trading activities worldwide, as principal and agent, and provide related
financing services on behalf of institutional investors.         
   2   

Table of Contents  

    Investment Banking and Corporate Lending Activities.               Financial Advisory Services.      Morgan
Stanley provides corporate and other institutional clients globally with advisory services on key strategic matters, such as mergers and acquisitions, divestitures, joint ventures, corporate restructurings, recapitalizations, spin-offs, exchange
offers and leveraged buyouts and takeover defenses as well as shareholder relations. Morgan Stanley also provides advice concerning rights offerings, dividend policy, valuations, foreign exchange exposure, financial risk management strategies and
financial planning. In addition, Morgan Stanley furnishes advice and services regarding project financings and provides advisory services in connection with the purchase, sale, leasing and financing of real estate.              Capital Raising.      Morgan Stanley manages and
participates in public offerings and private placements of debt, equity and other securities worldwide. Morgan Stanley is a leading underwriter of common stock, preferred stock and other equity-related securities, including convertible securities
and American Depositary Receipts ( ADRs ). Morgan Stanley is a leading underwriter of fixed income securities, including investment grade debt, non-investment grade instruments, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities,
tax-exempt securities and commercial paper and other short-term securities.              Corporate Lending.      Morgan Stanley provides loans or lending commitments, including bridge financing, to selected corporate clients through subsidiaries, including
Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. These loans and commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated and/or secured or unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower and
may be syndicated, hedged or traded by Morgan Stanley*. The borrowers may be rated investment grade or non-investment grade.             Sales and Trading Activities.             Morgan Stanley conducts sales, trading, financing and market-making activities on securities and futures exchanges and in over-the-counter ( OTC )
markets around the world. Morgan Stanley s Institutional Securities sales and trading activities include Equity Trading; Interest Rates, Credit and Currencies; Commodities; and Clients and Services.              Equity Trading.      Morgan Stanley acts as
principal (including as a market maker) and agent in executing transactions globally in equity and equity-related products, including common stock, ADRs, global depositary receipts and exchange-traded funds.            Morgan Stanley s equity derivatives sales, trading and market-making
activities cover equity-related products globally, including equity swaps, options, warrants and futures overlying individual securities, indices and baskets of securities and other equity-related products. Morgan Stanley also issues and makes a
principal market in equity-linked products to institutional and individual investors.              Interest Rates, Credit and Currencies.      Morgan Stanley trades, makes markets and takes long and short proprietary positions in fixed income securities and related
products globally, including, among other products, investment and non-investment grade corporate debt, distressed debt, bank loans, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, convertible bonds, collateralized debt
obligations, credit, currency and other fixed income-linked notes, and securities issued by structured investment vehicles, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate-loan products, municipal securities, preferred stock and
commercial paper, money-market and other short-term securities. Morgan Stanley is a primary dealer of U.S. Federal Government securities and a member of the selling groups that distribute various U.S. agency and other debt securities. Morgan Stanley
is also a primary dealer or market maker of government securities in numerous European, Asian and emerging market countries.             

*  
  Revenues and expenses associated with the trading of syndicated loans are included in  Sales and Trading Activities.            
   3   

Table of Contents  

   Morgan Stanley trades, makes markets and takes long and short proprietary positions globally in listed
futures and OTC swaps, forwards, options and other derivatives referencing, among other things, interest rates, currencies, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, loans, bonds, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging
market bonds and loans, credit indexes, asset-backed security indexes, property indexes, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate loan products.       
     Morgan Stanley trades, makes markets and takes long and short proprietary positions in major foreign currencies, such as the Japanese yen,
euro, British pound, Swiss franc and Canadian dollar, as well as in emerging markets currencies. Morgan Stanley trades these currencies on a principal basis in the spot, forward, option and futures markets.            Through the use of repurchase and reverse repurchase agreements, Morgan Stanley
acts as an intermediary between borrowers and lenders of short-term funds and provides funding for various inventory positions. Morgan Stanley also provides financing to customers for commercial and residential real estate loan products and other
securitizable asset classes. In addition, Morgan Stanley engages in principal securities lending with clients, institutional lenders and other broker-dealers.         
  Morgan Stanley advises on investment and liability strategies and assists corporations in their debt repurchases and tax planning. Morgan Stanley
structures debt securities, derivatives and other instruments with risk/return factors designed to suit client objectives, including using repackaged asset and other structured vehicles through which clients can restructure asset portfolios to
provide liquidity or reconfigure risk profiles.              Commodities.      Morgan Stanley trades as principal and maintains long and short proprietary trading positions in the spot, forward and futures markets in several commodities, including metals (base and
precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. Morgan Stanley is a market-maker in exchange-traded options and futures
and OTC options and swaps on commodities, and offers counterparties hedging programs relating to production, consumption, reserve/inventory management and structured transactions, including energy-contract securitizations. Morgan Stanley is an
electricity power marketer in the U.S. and owns electricity generating facilities in the U.S. and Europe.            Morgan Stanley owns TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business, and owns an interest in Heidmar Holdings
LLC, which owns a group of companies that provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services.              Clients and Services.      Morgan Stanley provides financing services, including prime brokerage, which offers, among other
services, consolidated clearance, settlement, custody, financing and portfolio reporting services to clients trading multiple asset classes. In addition, Morgan Stanley s institutional distribution and sales activities are overseen and
coordinated through Clients and Services.              Investments.      Morgan Stanley from time to time makes investments that represent business facilitation or principal investing activities. Business facilitation investments are strategic investments
undertaken by Morgan Stanley to facilitate core business activities. Principal investing activities are investments and capital commitments provided to public and private companies, funds and other entities generally for proprietary purposes to
maximize total returns to Morgan Stanley.            Morgan Stanley sponsors
and manages investment vehicles and separate accounts for clients seeking exposure to private equity, real estate-related and other alternative investments. Morgan Stanley may also invest in and provide capital to such investment vehicles. See also
 Asset Management.          
   4   

Table of Contents  

    Operations and Information Technology.             Morgan Stanley s Operations and Information Technology departments provide the process and technology platform that
supports Institutional Securities sales and trading activity, including post-execution trade processing and related internal controls over activity from trade entry through settlement and custody, such as asset servicing. This is done for
proprietary and customer transactions in listed and OTC transactions in commodities, equity and fixed income securities, including both primary and secondary trading, as well as listed, OTC and structured derivatives in markets around the world.
This activity is undertaken through Morgan Stanley s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties.               Global Wealth Management Group.             Morgan Stanley s Global Wealth Management Group, which includes the
Company s 51% interest in MSSB, provides comprehensive financial services to clients through a network of over 18,000 global representatives in approximately 895 locations at year end. As of December 31, 2009, Morgan Stanley had $1,560
billion in client assets.             Clients.             Global Wealth Management Group professionals serve individual investors and
small-to-medium size businesses and institutions with an emphasis on ultra high net worth, high net worth and affluent investors. Financial advisors are located in branches across the U.S., and provide solutions designed to accommodate individual
investment objectives, risk tolerance and liquidity needs. Call centers are available to meet the needs of emerging affluent clients. Outside the U.S., Global Wealth Management Group offers financial services to clients in Europe, the Middle East,
Asia, Australia and Latin America.             Products and Services.  
           Morgan Stanley s Global Wealth Management Group provides
clients with a comprehensive array of financial solutions, including products and services from Morgan Stanley, Citigroup Inc. ( Citi ) and third-party providers, such as insurance companies and mutual fund families. Global Wealth
Management Group provides brokerage and investment advisory services covering various types of investments, including equities, options, futures, foreign currencies, precious metals, fixed income securities, mutual funds, structured products,
alternative investments, unit investment trusts, managed futures, separately managed accounts and mutual fund asset allocation programs. Global Wealth Management Group also offers education savings programs, financial and wealth planning services
and annuity and other insurance products.            In addition, Global
Wealth Management Group offers its clients access to several cash management services through various affiliates, including cash sweeps, debit cards, electronic bill payments and check writing, as well as lending products, including securities based
lending, mortgage loans and home equity lines of credit. Global Wealth Management Group also offers access to cash management and commercial credit solutions to qualified small and medium businesses in the U.S., and provides individual and corporate
retirement solutions, including IRAs and 401(k) plans and U.S. stock plan services to corporate executives and businesses.            Global Wealth Management Group provides clients a variety of ways to establish a relationship and conduct business, including brokerage accounts with
transaction-based pricing and investment advisory accounts with asset-based fee pricing.             Operations and Information Technology.             As a result of the MSSB joint venture, most of the operations and technology supporting the Global Wealth Management Group are provided either by Morgan Stanley s Operations and Information
Technology departments or by Citi. Pursuant to contractual agreements, Morgan Stanley and Citi perform various
        
   5   

Table of Contents  

broker-dealer related functions, such as execution and clearing of brokerage transactions, margin lending and custody of client assets. For Morgan Stanley, these activities are undertaken through
Morgan Stanley s own facilities, through memberships in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through agreements with unaffiliated third parties. Morgan Stanley and Citi provide certain other services and systems to support the
Global Wealth Management Group, including through transition services agreements with MSSB.               Asset Management.             Morgan Stanley s Asset Management business segment is one of the largest global asset management organizations of any full-service financial services firm and offers individual and institutional
clients a diverse array of equity, fixed income and alternative investments and merchant banking strategies. Currently, Morgan Stanley s asset management activities are principally conducted under the Morgan Stanley and Van Kampen brands.
Portfolio managers located in the U.S., Europe, Japan, Singapore and India manage investment products ranging from money market funds to equity, taxable and tax-exempt fixed income funds and alternative investment and merchant banking products in
developed and emerging markets. Morgan Stanley offers clients various investment styles, such as value, growth, core, fixed income and asset allocation; global investments; active and passive management; and diversified and concentrated portfolios.
           Morgan Stanley offers a range of alternative investment and
merchant banking products for institutional investors and high net worth individuals. Morgan Stanley s alternative investments platform includes hedge funds, funds of hedge funds, funds of private equity funds and portable alpha strategies,
including FrontPoint Partners LLC, a leading provider of absolute return strategies. Morgan Stanley s alternative investments platform also includes minority stakes in Lansdowne Partners, Avenue Capital Group and Traxis Partners LP. Morgan
Stanley s Merchant Banking Division includes Morgan Stanley s real estate investing business, private equity funds and infrastructure investing group. Morgan Stanley typically acts as general partner of, and investment adviser to, its
alternative investment and merchant banking funds and typically commits to invest a minority of the capital of such funds with subscribing investors contributing the majority.            On October 19, 2009, as part of a restructuring of Morgan Stanley s Asset Management business segment, Morgan Stanley
entered into a definitive agreement to sell substantially all of its retail asset management business, including Van Kampen Investments, Inc. ( Van Kampen ), to Invesco Ltd. ( Invesco ). This transaction allows Morgan
Stanley s Asset Management business segment to focus on its institutional client base. Under the terms of the definitive agreement, Invesco will purchase substantially all of Morgan Stanley s retail asset management business, operating
under both the Morgan Stanley and Van Kampen brands, in a stock and cash transaction. Morgan Stanley will receive a 9.4% minority interest in Invesco. The transaction, which has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both companies, is expected
to close in mid-2010, subject to customary regulatory, client and fund shareholder approvals.             Institutional Investors.             Morgan Stanley provides asset management products and services to institutional investors worldwide, including corporations, pension plans, large intermediaries, private funds, non-profit organizations,
foundations, endowments, sovereign wealth funds, governmental agencies, insurance companies and banks. Products and services are available to institutional investors primarily through separate accounts, U.S. mutual funds and other pooled vehicles.
Morgan Stanley also sub-advises funds for various unaffiliated financial institutions and intermediaries. A global sales force and a team dedicated to covering the investment consultant industry serve institutional investors.             Individual Investors.             Morgan Stanley offers open-end and alternative investment funds and separately
managed accounts to individual investors through affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers, banks, insurance companies and financial planners. Closed-end funds managed by Morgan Stanley or Van Kampen are available to individual investors through
        
   6   

Table of Contents  

affiliated and unaffiliated broker-dealers. A small number of unaffiliated broker-dealers account for a substantial portion of Van Kampen open-end fund sales. Morgan Stanley also sells mutual
funds through numerous retirement plan platforms. Internationally, Morgan Stanley distributes traditional investment products to individuals outside the U.S. through non-proprietary distributors, and alternative investment products are distributed
through affiliated broker-dealers.             Operations and Information
Technology.             Morgan Stanley s Operations and Information
Technology departments provide or oversee the process and technology platform required to support its asset management business. Support activities include transfer agency, mutual fund accounting and administration, transaction processing and
certain fiduciary services, on behalf of institutional, retail and intermediary clients. These activities are undertaken through Morgan Stanley s own facilities, through membership in various clearing and settlement organizations, and through
agreements with unaffiliated third parties.       
        Research.             Morgan Stanley s research department ( Research ) coordinates globally across all of Morgan Stanley s businesses. Research consists of
economists, strategists and industry analysts who engage in equity and fixed income research activities and produce reports and studies on the U.S. and global economy, financial markets, portfolio strategy, technical market analyses, individual
companies and industry developments. Research examines worldwide trends covering numerous industries and individual companies, the majority of which are located outside of the U.S.; provides analysis and forecasts relating to economic and monetary
developments that affect matters such as interest rates, foreign currencies, securities, derivatives and economic trends; and provides analytical support and publishes reports on asset-backed securities and the markets in which such securities are
traded and data are disseminated to investors through third party distributors, proprietary internet sites such as Client Link and Morgan Stanley s sales forces.               Competition.        
     All aspects of Morgan Stanley s businesses are highly competitive and Morgan Stanley expects them to remain so. Morgan Stanley competes
in the U.S. and globally for clients, market share and human talent in all aspects of its business segments. Morgan Stanley s competitive position depends on its reputation and the quality of its products, services and advice. Morgan
Stanley s ability to sustain or improve its competitive position also depends substantially on its ability to continue to attract and retain qualified employees while managing compensation and other costs. Morgan Stanley competes with
commercial banks, brokerage firms, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. Over time, certain sectors of the
financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other firms or have declared bankruptcy. Such changes could result in Morgan
Stanley s remaining competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as the ability to offer a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity.             Institutional Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.             Morgan Stanley s competitive position depends on innovation, execution
capability and relative pricing. Morgan Stanley competes directly in the U.S. and globally with other securities and financial services firms and broker-dealers, and with others on a regional or product basis.            Morgan Stanley s ability to access capital at competitive rates (which is
generally dependent on Morgan Stanley s credit ratings) and to commit capital efficiently, particularly in its capital-intensive underwriting and
        
   7   

Table of Contents  

sales, trading, financing and market-making activities, also affects its competitive position. Corporate clients may request that Morgan Stanley provide loans or lending commitments in connection
with certain investment banking activities.            It is possible that
competition may become even more intense as Morgan Stanley continues to compete with financial institutions that may be larger, or better capitalized, or may have a stronger local presence and longer operating history in certain areas. Many of these
firms have greater capital than Morgan Stanley and have the ability to offer a wide range of products and services that may enhance their competitive position and could result in pricing pressure in our businesses. The complementary trends in the
financial services industry of consolidation and globalization present, among other things, technological, risk management, regulatory and other infrastructure challenges that require effective resource allocation in order for Morgan Stanley to
remain competitive.            Morgan Stanley has experienced intense price
competition in some of its businesses in recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. The trend
toward direct access to automated, electronic markets will likely continue. It is possible that Morgan Stanley will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of its competitors may seek to obtain market share by
reducing prices.             Asset Management.             Competition in the asset management industry is affected by several factors,
including Morgan Stanley s reputation, investment objectives, quality of investment professionals, performance of investment products relative to peers and an appropriate benchmark index, advertising and sales promotion efforts, fee levels, the
effectiveness of and access to distribution channels, and the types and quality of products offered. Morgan Stanley s alternative investment products, such as private equity funds, real estate and hedge funds, compete with similar products
offered by both alternative and traditional asset managers.       
        Supervision and Regulation.        
     As a major financial services firm, Morgan Stanley is subject to extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and
securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where it operates. Moreover, in response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the U.S. and worldwide, are currently considering a wide
range of proposals that, if enacted, could result in major changes to the way Morgan Stanley is regulated and conducts its business.             Regulatory Outlook.             It is likely that the year 2010 and subsequent years will see material changes in the way that major financial institutions are regulated both in the U.S.
and worldwide. The reforms being discussed include several that contemplate comprehensive restructuring of the regulation of the financial services industry. Enactment of such measures likely would lead to stricter regulation of financial
institutions generally, and heightened prudential requirements for systemically important firms in particular. Such measures could include taxation of financial transactions, liabilities and employee compensation as well as reforms of the OTC
derivatives markets, such as mandated exchange trading and clearing, position limits, margin, capital and registration requirements. Other changes under discussion in the U.S. legislative arena include: breaking up firms that are considered
 too big to fail  or mandating certain barriers between their activities in order to allow for an orderly resolution of failing financial institutions; curtailing the ability of firms that own Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
( FDIC )-insured institutions to also engage in private equity, hedge fund and proprietary trading activities; requiring firms to maintain plans for their dissolution; requiring the financial industry to pay into a fund designed to help
unwind failing firms; providing regulators with new means of limiting activities of financial firms; regulating
        
   8   

Table of Contents  

compensation in the financial services industry; enhancing corporate governance, especially regarding risk management; and creating a new agency, the  Consumer Financial Protection
Agency,  to protect U.S. consumers who buy financial products.            Reforms are being discussed concurrently in Washington, London, the European Union ( EU ) and other major market centers in which Morgan Stanley operates, and attempts are being made to internationally coordinate the principles
behind such changes through the G-20 s expanded mandate for the Financial Stability Board and through the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ( Basel Committee ), the International Association of Securities Commissioners and
others. Among the internationally coordinated reforms are recent measures and proposals by the Basel Committee to raise the quality of capital, increase capital requirements for securitizations, trading book exposure and counterparty credit
risk exposure, and globally introduce a leverage ratio, capital conservation measures and liquidity coverage requirements, among other measures. In both the EU and the U.S., moreover, changes to the institutional framework for financial
regulation are being discussed or are underway.            Many of the
market reforms, if enacted, may materially affect Morgan Stanley s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period. In particular, if systemic regulation were enacted, Morgan Stanley would
likely be designated as a systemically important firm, and the consequences of systemic regulation, including a potential requirement for additional higher quality capital and liquidity and decreased leverage, could materially impact Morgan
Stanley s business.            A substantial number of the financial
reforms currently discussed in the U.S. and globally may become law, though it is difficult to predict which will become law, how such reforms will be implemented or the exact impact they will have on Morgan Stanley s business, financial
condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period. As most changes, if adopted, will require regulatory implementation, the full impact of these changes will not be known until a later stage.            Financial Holding Company.             Since September 2008, Morgan Stanley has operated as a financial holding
company under the BHC Act.              U.S. Banking
Institutions.      Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. ( MSBNA ), primarily a wholesale commercial bank, offers consumer lending and commercial lending services in addition to deposit products. As an FDIC-insured national
bank, MSBNA is subject to supervision and regulation by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency ( OCC ).            Morgan Stanley Trust is a wholly owned subsidiary that conducts, through a subsidiary, certain mortgage lending activities primarily for customers of its
affiliate retail broker Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC ( MSSB LLC ). Morgan Stanley Trust also conducts certain transfer agency, sub-accounting and other activities. It is an FDIC-insured federal savings bank whose activities are subject
to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the Office of Thrift Supervision.            Morgan Stanley Trust National Association, a wholly owned subsidiary, is a non-depository national bank whose activities are limited to fiduciary and custody activities, primarily personal trust and prime
brokerage custody services. It is subject to comprehensive regulation and periodic examination by the OCC. Morgan Stanley Trust National Association is not FDIC-insured.       
       Scope of Permitted Activities.      As a financial holding company, Morgan Stanley is able to engage in any
activity that is financial in nature or incidental to a financial activity. Unless otherwise required by the Fed, Morgan Stanley is permitted to commence any new financial activity, or acquire a company engaged in any financial activity, as long as
it provides after the fact notice of such new activity or investment to the Fed. Morgan Stanley must obtain the prior approval of the Fed before acquiring more than five percent of any class of voting stock of a U.S. depository institution
or bank holding company or commencing any activity that is complementary to a financial activity. Under some reform proposals, any non-banking acquisition of more than $25 billion in assets would require prior Fed approval, and regulators would be
given new means to limit activities.         
   9   

Table of Contents  

   Morgan Stanley believes that most of the activities it conducted before becoming a financial holding company
remain permissible. In addition, the BHC Act gives Morgan Stanley two years after becoming a financial holding company to conform its existing nonfinancial activities and investments to the requirements of the BHC Act with the possibility of three
one-year extensions for a total grace period of up to five years. The BHC Act also grandfathers any  activities related to the trading, sale or investment in commodities and underlying physical properties,  provided that Morgan Stanley
conducted any of such activities as of September 30, 1997 and provided that certain other conditions that are within Morgan Stanley s reasonable control are satisfied. In addition, the BHC Act permits the Fed to determine by regulation or
order that certain activities are complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a risk to safety and soundness.            It is possible that certain of Morgan Stanley s existing activities will not be deemed to be permissible financial activities, or incidental or
complementary to such activities or otherwise grandfathered. If so, Morgan Stanley may be required to divest them before the end of the original two-year or subsequent one-year grace periods discussed above. Morgan Stanley does not believe that any
such required divestment will have a material adverse impact on its financial condition or results of operations.              Consolidated Supervision.      As a financial holding company, Morgan Stanley is subject to the comprehensive, consolidated
supervision and regulation of the Fed. This means that Morgan Stanley is, among other things, subject to the Fed s risk-based and leverage capital requirements and information reporting requirements for bank holding companies. The Fed has the
authority to conduct on-site examinations of Morgan Stanley and any of its affiliates, subject to coordinating with any state or federal functional regulator of any particular affiliate.            In order to maintain Morgan Stanley s status as a financial holding company, its depository institution subsidiaries must
remain well capitalized and well managed. Reform proposals would also base such financial holding company status on maintaining a well capitalized and well managed standard at the Morgan Stanley holding company level. If designated a systemically
important firm, Morgan Stanley would be required, pursuant to such reform proposals, to remain well capitalized and well managed at all times. Under current regulations implemented by the Fed, if any depository institution controlled by a
financial holding company no longer meets certain capital or management standards, the Fed may impose corrective capital and/or managerial requirements on the parent financial holding company and place limitations on its ability to make acquisitions
or otherwise conduct the broader financial activities permissible for financial holding companies. In addition, as a last resort if the deficiencies persist, the Fed may order a financial holding company to cease the conduct of or to divest those
businesses engaged in activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies that are not financial holding companies. The regulations also provide that if any depository institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to
maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977, the Fed must prohibit the financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in any additional activities other than those permissible for bank holding companies
that are not financial holding companies.              Capital
Standards.      The Basel Committee and the Fed are rethinking the scope, strength and nature of the capital requirements that should apply to global financial institutions like Morgan Stanley.            The Basel Committee has opened a broad-based consultation on capital, liquidity
and leverage ratios that is expected to be complete by the end of 2010, with implementation for most measures by the end of 2012, and in some cases earlier. The results of this consultation, in the form eventually implemented into U.S. law by
the Fed and other U.S. banking regulators, are expected, among other aspects, to increase requirements as to the quality of capital, with greater emphasis on common stock as the predominant form of capital, to enhance capital requirements for
trading book exposures, securitizations and counterparty credit risk exposure, to institute capital conservation measures and liquidity coverage requirements, and to implement on a more global basis the leverage ratio concept, a version of which is
currently applied only by U.S. regulators. The exact scope and scale of these capital changes are currently not known. Even under current standards, the Fed generally requires Morgan Stanley and its peer financial holding companies to
maintain risk-based and leverage capital ratios substantially in excess of mandated minimum levels, depending upon general economic conditions and their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans.         
   10   

Table of Contents  

   Current U.S. risk based capital and leverage guidelines require Morgan Stanley s
capital to assets ratios to meet certain minimum standards. Under the guidelines, banking organizations are required to maintain a total capital ratio (total capital to risk weighted assets) of at least 10% and a Tier 1 capital ratio
of at least 6% in order to qualify as well capitalized and for the holding company parent to be able to qualify as a financial holding company.            Morgan Stanley currently calculates its capital ratios and risk-weighted assets in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for financial holding
companies adopted by the Fed, which are based upon a framework described in the  International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards,  July 1988, as amended, also referred to as  Basel I.  U.S. banking
regulators are in the process of incorporating the Basel II Accord into the existing risk based capital requirements and Morgan Stanley is working with its regulators accordingly to transition to these requirements.            The federal banking regulators also have established minimum leverage ratio
guidelines. The Tier 1 leverage ratio is defined as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total book assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets and deferred tax assets). The adjusted average total
assets are derived using weekly balances for each quarter. The minimum leverage ratio is 3% for bank holding companies that are considered  strong  under Fed guidelines or which have implemented the Fed s risk based capital
measure for market risk. Other bank holding companies must have a minimum leverage ratio of 4%.            Reform proposals affecting the scope, coverage, or calculation of capital, and increases in the amount of capital, including more restrictive leverage ratios, capital conservation measures and liquidity
coverage requirements could adversely affect Morgan Stanley s ability to generate return on capital, to pay dividends, or could require Morgan Stanley to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact
its shareholders or creditors.            See also  Management s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements  herein.              Dividends   .     In addition to certain dividend restrictions that apply by law to certain of Morgan Stanley s
subsidiaries, as described below, the OCC, the Fed and the FDIC have authority to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including Morgan Stanley, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and other Morgan Stanley
depository institution subsidiaries, if, in the banking regulator s opinion, payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound practice in light of the financial condition of the banking organization. It is Fed policy that bank
holding companies should generally pay dividends on common stock only out of income available from the past year, and only if prospective earnings retention is consistent with the organization s expected future needs and financial condition. It
is also Fed policy that bank holding companies should not maintain dividend levels that undermine the company s ability to be a source of strength to its banking subsidiaries.              Prompt Corrective Action   .     The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act
of 1991 provides a framework for regulation of depository institutions and their affiliates, including parent holding companies, by their federal banking regulators. Among other things, it requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take
 prompt corrective action  with respect to a depository institution if that institution does not meet certain capital adequacy standards. Current regulations generally apply only to insured banks and thrifts such as Morgan Stanley Bank,
N.A. or Morgan Stanley Trust, and not to their parent holding companies, such as Morgan Stanley. The Fed is, however, subject to limitations, authorized to take appropriate action at the holding company level. All pending proposals in the U.S. would
broaden the Fed s or appropriate regulator s ability to take prompt corrective action against a systemically important financial institution.              Transactions with Affiliates   .     Morgan Stanley s domestic subsidiary banks are subject to Sections 23A and 23B
of the Federal Reserve Act, which impose restrictions on any extensions of credit to, purchase of assets from, and certain other transactions with, any affiliates. These restrictions include limits on the total amount of credit exposure that they
may have to any one affiliate and to all affiliates, as well as collateral requirements, and they require all such transactions to be made on market terms.         
   11   

Table of Contents  

     FDIC Regulation.      An FDIC insured depository institution is
generally liable for any loss incurred or expected to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with the failure of an insured depository institution under common control by the same bank holding company. As FDIC-insured depository institutions, Morgan
Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Trust are exposed to each other s losses. In addition, both institutions are exposed to changes in the cost of FDIC insurance. In 2009, the FDIC levied a special assessment of 5% on each insured depository
institution s assets, minus its Tier 1 capital, capped at 10% of its domestic deposits. In addition, the FDIC required insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009 and for all of
2010, 2011 and 2012. The FDIC also adopted a uniform three-basis point increase in assessment rates effective on January 1, 2011. All measures were part of an effort to rebuild the Deposit Insurance Fund. In addition, by participating in the
FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Trust have temporarily become subject to an additional assessment on deposits in excess of $250,000 in certain transaction accounts. Some of the pending
legislative proposals would further increase Morgan Stanley s FDIC assessments, which, if enacted, may materially affect Morgan Stanley s financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period.   
         Anti-Money Laundering.             Morgan Stanley s Anti-Money Laundering ( AML ) program is
coordinated on an enterprise-wide basis. In the U.S., for example, the Bank Secrecy Act, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2001 (the  BSA/USA PATRIOT Act ), imposes significant obligations on financial institutions to detect and deter
money laundering and terrorist financing activity, including requiring banks, bank holding company subsidiaries, broker-dealers, future commission merchants, and mutual funds to identify and verify customers that maintain accounts. The BSA/USA
PATRIOT Act also mandates that financial institutions have policies, procedures and internal processes in place to monitor and report suspicious activity to appropriate law enforcement or regulatory authorities. Financial institutions subject to the
BSA/USA PATRIOT Act also must designate a BSA/AML compliance officer, provide employees with training on money laundering prevention, and undergo an annual, independent audit to assess the effectiveness of its AML program. Outside the U.S.,
applicable laws, rules and regulations similarly subject designated types of financial institutions to AML program requirements. Morgan Stanley has implemented policies, procedures and internal controls that are designed to comply with AML program
requirements. Morgan Stanley has also implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with the regulations and economic sanctions programs administered by the U.S. Department of the Treasury s Office of
Foreign Assets Control ( OFAC ), which enforces economic and trade sanctions against targeted foreign countries, entities and individuals based on U.S. foreign policy and national security goals, and other multi-national organizations and
governmental agencies worldwide.             Anti-Corruption.
            Morgan Stanley is subject to the U.S. Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act ( FCPA ), which prohibits offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, directly or indirectly, to a non-U.S. government official in order to obtain or retain business or otherwise secure a
business advantage. Morgan Stanley is also subject to applicable anti-corruption laws in the jurisdictions in which it operates. Morgan Stanley has implemented policies, procedures, and internal controls that are designed to comply with the FCPA and
other applicable anti-corruption laws, rules, and regulations in the jurisdictions in which it operates.             Protection of Client Information.             Many aspects of Morgan Stanley s business are subject to legal requirements concerning the use and protection of certain customer information, including those adopted pursuant to the
Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and the Fair and Accurate Credit Transactions Act of 2003 in the U.S., the European Union Data Protection Directive in the EU and various laws in Asia, including the Japanese Personal Information (Protection) Law, the Hong
Kong Personal Data (Protection) Ordinance and the Australian Privacy Act. Morgan Stanley has adopted measures designed to comply with these and related applicable requirements in all relevant jurisdictions.         
   12   

Table of Contents  

    Research.          
  Both U.S. and non-U.S. regulators continue to focus on research conflicts of interest. Research-related regulations have been implemented in many
jurisdictions. New and revised requirements resulting from these regulations and the global research settlement with U.S. federal and state regulators (to which Morgan Stanley is a party) have necessitated the development or enhancement of
corresponding policies and procedures.             Institutional
Securities and Global Wealth Management Group.               Broker-Dealer Regulation.      Morgan Stanley s primary U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries, MS Co. and MSSB LLC, are registered broker-dealers with the SEC and in all 50 states, the District of
Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands, and are members of various self-regulatory organizations, including the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, Inc. ( FINRA ) and securities exchanges, including the NYSE. In addition,
MS Co. and MSSB LLC are registered investment advisers with the SEC. Broker-dealers are subject to laws and regulations covering all aspects of the securities business, including sales and trading practices, securities offerings, publication of
research reports, use of customers  funds and securities, capital structure, record-keeping and retention and the conduct of their directors, officers, representatives and other associated persons. Broker-dealers are also regulated by
securities administrators in those states where they do business. Violations of the laws and regulations governing a broker-dealer s actions could result in censures, fines, the issuance of cease-and-desist orders, revocation of licenses or
registrations, the suspension or expulsion from the securities industry of such broker-dealer or its officers or employees, or other similar consequences by both federal and state securities administrators.            Margin lending by broker-dealers is regulated by the Fed s restrictions on
lending in connection with customer and proprietary purchases and short sales of securities, as well as securities borrowing and lending activities. Broker-dealers are also subject to maintenance and other margin requirements imposed under FINRA and
other self-regulatory organization rules. In many cases, Morgan Stanley s broker-dealer subsidiaries  margin policies are more stringent than these rules.            As registered U.S. broker-dealers, certain subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley are subject to the SEC s net capital rule and
the net capital requirements of various exchanges and other regulatory authorities. Many non-U.S. regulatory authorities and exchanges also have rules relating to capital and, in some case, liquidity requirements that apply to Morgan Stanley s
non-U.S. broker-dealer subsidiaries. These rules are generally designed to measure general financial integrity and/or liquidity and require that at least a minimum amount of net and/or more liquid assets be maintained by the subsidiary. See also
 Consolidated Supervision  and  Capital Standards  above. Rules of FINRA and other self-regulatory organizations also impose limitations and requirements on the transfer of member organizations  assets.            Compliance with regulatory capital liquidity requirements may limit Morgan
Stanley s operations requiring the intensive use of capital. Such requirements restrict Morgan Stanley s ability to withdraw capital from its broker-dealer subsidiaries, which in turn may limit its ability to pay dividends, repay debt or
redeem or purchase shares of its own outstanding stock. Any change in such rules or the imposition of new rules affecting the scope, coverage, calculation or amount of capital liquidity requirements, or a significant operating loss or any unusually
large charge against capital, could adversely affect Morgan Stanley s ability to pay dividends or to expand or maintain present business levels. In addition, such rules may require Morgan Stanley to make substantial capital liquidity infusions
into one or more of its broker-dealer subsidiaries in order for such subsidiaries to comply with such rules.            MS Co. and MSSB LLC are members of the Securities Investor Protection Corporation ( SIPC ), which provides protection for customers of broker-dealers against losses in the event of the
liquidation of a broker-dealer. SIPC protects customers  securities accounts held by a member broker-dealer up to $500,000 for each eligible customer, subject to a limitation of $100,000 for claims for cash balances. To supplement this SIPC
        
   13   

Table of Contents  

coverage, MS Co. has purchased additional protection for the benefit of its customers in the form of an annual policy issued by certain underwriters and various insurance companies that
provides protection for all clients up to the remaining net equity securities balance in their accounts, subject to the firmwide cap of $1 billion.              Regulation of Certain Commodities Activities.      The commodities activities in the Institutional Securities business
segment are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other governmental laws and regulations in the U.S. and abroad. Intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by U.S. federal, state and local
authorities in the U.S. and abroad and by the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement and remedial proceedings involving energy companies, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading.
           Terminal facilities and other assets relating to Morgan
Stanley s commodities activities are also subject to environmental laws both in the U.S. and abroad. In addition, pipeline, transport and terminal operations are subject to state laws in connection with the cleanup of hazardous substances that
may have been released at properties currently or previously owned or operated by us or locations to which we have sent wastes for disposal.              Additional Regulation of U.S. Entities.      As registered futures commission merchants, MS Co. and MSSB LLC are subject
to net capital requirements of, and their activities are regulated by, the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (the  CFTC ) and various commodity futures exchanges. Morgan Stanley s futures and options-on-futures businesses are also
regulated by the National Futures Association (the  NFA ), a registered futures association, of which MS Co. and certain of its affiliates are members. These regulatory requirements differ for clearing and non-clearing firms, and they
address obligations related to, among other things, the registration of the futures commission merchant and certain of its associated persons, membership with the NFA, the segregation of customer funds and the holding apart of a secured amount, the
receipt of an acknowledgement of certain written risk disclosure statements, the receipt of trading authorizations, the furnishing of daily confirmations and monthly statements, recordkeeping and reporting obligations, the supervision of accounts,
and antifraud prohibitions. Among other things, the NFA has rules covering a wide variety of areas such as advertising, telephone solicitations, risk disclosure, discretionary trading, disclosure of fees, minimum capital requirements, reporting and
proficiency testing. MS Co. and MSSB LLC have affiliates that are registered as commodity trading advisers ( CTAs ) and/or commodity pool operators ( CPOs ), or are operating under certain exemptions from such registration
pursuant to CFTC Rules and other guidance. Under CFTC and NFA Rules, CTAs that manage accounts must distribute disclosure documents, and maintain specified records relating to their activities and clients. Under CFTC and NFA rules, CPOs have certain
responsibilities with respect to each pool they operate. For each pool, a CPO must prepare and distribute a disclosure document; distribute periodic account statements; prepare and distribute audited annual financial reports; and keep specified
records concerning the participants, transactions, and operations of each pool, as well as records regarding transactions of the CPO and its principals. Violations of the rules of the CFTC, the NFA or the commodity exchanges could result in remedial
actions including fines, registration restrictions or terminations, trading prohibitions or revocations of commodity exchange memberships.              Non-U.S. Regulation.      Morgan Stanley s businesses are also regulated extensively by non-U.S. regulators, including
governments, securities exchanges, commodity exchanges, self-regulatory organizations, central banks and regulatory bodies, especially in those jurisdictions in which Morgan Stanley maintains an office. Certain Morgan Stanley subsidiaries are
regulated as broker-dealers under the laws of the jurisdictions in which they operate. Subsidiaries engaged in banking and trust activities outside the U.S. are regulated by various government agencies in the particular jurisdiction where they are
chartered, incorporated and/or conduct their business activity. For instance, the Financial Services Authority and several U.K. securities and futures exchanges, including the London Stock Exchange and Euronext.liffe, regulate Morgan Stanley s
activities in the U.K.; the Deutsche B rse AG and the Bundesanstalt f r Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (the Federal Financial Supervisory Authority) regulate its activities in the Federal Republic of Germany; Eidgen ssische
Finanzmarktaufsicht regulates its activities in Switzerland; the Financial Services Agency, the Bank of Japan, the
        
   14   

Table of Contents  

Japanese Securities Dealers Association and several Japanese securities and futures exchanges, including the Tokyo Stock Exchange, the Osaka Securities Exchange and the Tokyo International
Financial Futures Exchange, regulate its activities in Japan; the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission and the Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing Limited regulate its operations in Hong Kong; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore and the
Singapore Exchange Limited regulate its business in Singapore.             Asset Management.             Many of the subsidiaries
engaged in Morgan Stanley s asset management activities are registered as investment advisers with the SEC and, in certain states, some employees or representatives of subsidiaries are registered as investment adviser representatives. Many
aspects of Morgan Stanley s asset management activities are subject to federal and state laws and regulations primarily intended to benefit the investor or client. These laws and regulations generally grant supervisory agencies and bodies broad
administrative powers, including the power to limit or restrict Morgan Stanley from carrying on its asset management activities in the event that it fails to comply with such laws and regulations. Sanctions that may be imposed for such failure
include the suspension of individual employees, limitations on Morgan Stanley engaging in various asset management activities for specified periods of time or specified types of clients, the revocation of registrations, other censures and fines.
           Morgan Stanley s Asset Management business is also regulated
outside the U.S. For example, the Financial Services Authority regulates Morgan Stanley s business in the U.K.; the Financial Services Agency regulates Morgan Stanley s business in Japan; the Securities and Exchange Board of India
regulates Morgan Stanley s business in India; and the Monetary Authority of Singapore regulates Morgan Stanley s business in Singapore.            For a discussion of certain risks relating to Morgan Stanley s regulatory environment, see  Risk Factors  herein.               Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley.
            The executive officers of Morgan Stanley and their ages and
titles as of February 26, 2010 are set forth below. Business experience for the past five years is provided in accordance with SEC rules.             John J. Mack (65).      Chairman of the Board of Directors of Morgan Stanley (since June 2005). Chief Executive Officer (June 2005
to December 2009). Chairman of Pequot Capital Management (June 2005). Co-Chief Executive Officer of Credit Suisse Group (January 2003 to June 2004). President, Chief Executive Officer and Director of Credit Suisse First Boston (July 2001 to June
2004). President and Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley (May 1997 to March 2001).             James P. Gorman (51).      President and Chief Executive Officer and Director of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010) and Chairman of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney (since June
2009). Co-President (December 2007 to December 2009) and Co-Head of Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). President and Chief Operating Officer of the Global Wealth Management Group (February 2006 to April 2008). Head of Corporate
Acquisitions Strategy and Research at Merrill Lynch   Co., Inc. ( Merrill Lynch ) (July 2005 to August 2005) and President of the Global Private Client business at Merrill Lynch (December 2002 to July 2005).             Ruth Porat (52).      Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Vice Chairman of Investment Banking (September 2003 to December 2009). Global Head of Financial Institutions Group (September 2006 to December 2009) and Chairman of the Financial
Sponsors Group (July 2004 to September 2006) within the Investment Banking Division.             Colm Kelleher (52).      Executive Vice President and Co-President of Institutional Securities of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Chief Financial Officer and Co-Head of
Strategic Planning (October 2007 to December 2009). Head of Global Capital Markets (February 2006 to October 2007). Co-Head of Fixed Income Europe (May 2004 to February 2006).         
   15   

Table of Contents  

    Paul J. Taubman (49).     Executive Vice President and Co-President of
Institutional Securities of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010). Global Head of Investment Banking (January 2008 to December 2009). Global Co-Head of Investment Banking (July 2007 to January 2008) Global Head of Mergers and Acquisitions Department
(May 2005 to July 2007). Global Co-Head of Mergers and Acquisitions Department (December 2003 to May 2005).             Gregory J. Fleming (46).     Executive Vice President and President of Asset Management and Research of Morgan Stanley (since February 2010). Senior Research Scholar at Yale Law
School and Distinguished Visiting Fellow of the Center for the Study of Corporate Law at Yale Law School (January 2009 to December 2009). President of Merrill Lynch (February 2008 to January 2009). Co-President of Merrill Lynch (May
2007 February 2008). Executive Vice President and Co-President of the Global Markets and Investment Banking Group of Merrill Lynch (August 2003 to May 2007).             Charles D. Johnston (56).      Executive Vice President of Morgan Stanley and President of Morgan
Stanley Smith Barney (since January 2010). President of Morgan Stanley Smith Barney (June 2009 to January 2010). President, Global Wealth Management U.S. and Canada, at Citi Smith Barney (March 2008 to June 2009) President and Chief Executive
Officer of Smith Barney (January 2005 to March 2008).             Walid
Chammah (55).      Executive Vice President of Morgan Stanley (since January 2010), Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Morgan Stanley International (since January 2009). Co-President (December 2007 to December 2009). Head
of Investment Banking (August 2005 to July 2007) and Head of Global Capital Markets (July 2002 to August 2005).             Thomas R. Nides (49).      Chief Operating Officer of Morgan Stanley and Chief Administrative Officer and Secretary (September 2005
to December 2009). Worldwide President and Chief Executive Officer of Burson-Marsteller (November 2004 to August 2005). Chairman of the Securities Industry and Financial Markets Association since October 2009.             Gary G. Lynch (59).      Vice Chairman (since May
2009) and Chief Legal Officer of Morgan Stanley (since October 2005). Global General Counsel (October 2001 to October 2005) of Credit Suisse First Boston. Executive Vice Chairman (July 2004 to October 2005) and Vice Chairman (December 2002 to July
2004) of Credit Suisse First Boston and member of the Executive Board (July 2004 to July 2005) of Credit Suisse Group. Partner at the law firm of Davis Polk   Wardwell (September 1989 to October 2001).             Kenneth M. deRegt (54).      Executive Vice President
and Chief Risk Officer of Morgan Stanley (since February 2008). Managing Director of Aetos Capital, LLC, an investment management firm (December 2002 to February 2008).       
  
   16   

Table of Contents  

      Item 1A.    Risk Factors.              Liquidity and Funding Risk.             Liquidity and funding risk refers to the risk that Morgan Stanley will be
unable to finance its operations due to a loss of access to the capital markets or difficulty in liquidating its assets. Liquidity and funding risk also encompasses the ability of Morgan Stanley to meet its financial obligations without experiencing
significant business disruption or reputational damage that may threaten its viability as a going concern. For more information on how we monitor and manage liquidity and funding risk, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Part II, Item 7 herein.              Liquidity is essential to our businesses and we rely on external sources to finance a significant portion of our operations.              Liquidity is essential to our businesses. Our liquidity could be substantially affected negatively by our inability to raise
funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity capital markets or our inability to access the secured lending markets. Factors that we cannot control, such as disruption of the financial markets or negative views about the
financial services industry generally, could impair our ability to raise funding. In addition, our ability to raise funding could be impaired if lenders develop a negative perception of our long-term or short-term financial prospects. Such negative
perceptions could be developed if we incur large trading losses, we are downgraded or put on (or remain on) negative watch by the rating agencies, we suffer a decline in the level of our business activity, regulatory authorities take significant
action against us, or we discover significant employee misconduct or illegal activity, among other reasons. If we are unable to raise funding using the methods described above, we would likely need to finance or liquidate unencumbered assets, such
as our investment and trading portfolios, to meet maturing liabilities. We may be unable to sell some of our assets, or we may have to sell assets at a discount from market value, either of which could adversely affect our results of operations and
cash flows.              Our borrowing costs and access to the debt
capital markets depend significantly on our credit ratings.              The cost and availability of unsecured financing generally are dependent on our short-term and long-term credit ratings. Factors that are important to the determination of our credit ratings include the level and quality of our earnings, as
well as our capital adequacy, liquidity, risk appetite and management, asset quality and business mix.            Our debt ratings also can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such as OTC derivative
transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, we may be required to provide
additional collateral to certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade.              We are a holding company and depend on payments from our subsidiaries.              The parent holding company depends on dividends, distributions and other payments from its subsidiaries to fund dividend payments and to fund all payments on
its obligations, including debt obligations. Regulatory and other legal restrictions may limit our ability to transfer funds freely, either to or from our subsidiaries. In particular, many of our subsidiaries, including our broker-dealer
subsidiaries, are subject to laws, regulations and self-regulatory organization rules that authorize regulatory bodies to block or reduce the flow of funds to the parent holding company, or that prohibit such transfers altogether in certain
circumstances. These laws, regulations and rules may hinder our ability to access funds that we may need to make payments on our obligations. Furthermore, as a bank holding company, we may become subject to a prohibition or to limitations on our
ability to pay dividends. The OCC, the Fed and the FDIC have the authority, and under certain circumstances the duty, to prohibit or to limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations they supervise, including us and our bank holding
company subsidiaries.         
   17   

Table of Contents  

     Our liquidity and financial condition have in the past been, and in the future could be, adversely
affected by U.S. and international markets and economic conditions.              Our ability to raise funding in the long-term or short-term debt capital markets or the equity markets, or to access secured lending markets, has in the past been, and could in the future be, adversely
affected by conditions in the U.S. and international markets and economy. Global market and economic conditions have been particularly disrupted and volatile during the past two years, with volatility reaching unprecedented levels in the Fall of
2008 and into 2009. In particular, our cost and availability of funding have been, and may in the future be, adversely affected by illiquid credit markets and wider credit spreads. Renewed turbulence in the U.S. and international markets and economy
could adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition and the willingness of certain counterparties and customers to do business with us.             Market Risk.             Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices of commodities or securities, rates, indices, implied volatilities
(the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. For more information on how we monitor and manage market
risk, see  Qualitative and Quantitative Disclosure about Market Risk Risk Management Market Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein.              Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations and by economic and other factors.              The amount, duration and range of our market risk exposures have been
increasing over the past several years, and may continue to do so. Our results of operations may be materially affected by market fluctuations due to economic and other factors. Results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may
continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including political, economic and market conditions; the availability and cost of capital; the liquidity of global markets; the level and volatility of equity prices, commodity
prices and interest rates; currency values and other market indices; technological changes and events; the availability and cost of credit; inflation; natural disasters; acts of war or terrorism; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial
markets; or a combination of these or other factors. In addition, legislative, legal and regulatory developments related to our businesses potentially could increase costs, thereby affecting results of operations. These factors also may have an
impact on our ability to achieve our strategic objectives.            The
results of our Institutional Securities business segment, particularly results relating to our involvement in primary and secondary markets for all types of financial products, are subject to substantial fluctuations due to a variety of factors,
such as those enumerated above that we cannot control or predict with great certainty. These fluctuations impact results by causing variations in new business flows and in the fair value of securities and other financial products. Fluctuations also
occur due to the level of global market activity, which, among other things, affects the size, number and timing of investment banking client assignments and transactions and the realization of returns from our principal investments. During periods
of unfavorable market or economic conditions, the level of individual investor participation in the global markets, as well as the level of client assets, may also decrease, which would negatively impact the results of our Global Wealth Management
Group business segment. In addition, fluctuations in global market activity could impact the flow of investment capital into or from assets under management or supervision and the way customers allocate capital among money market, equity, fixed
income or other investment alternatives, which could negatively impact our Asset Management business segment.              We may experience further writedowns of our financial instruments and other losses related to volatile and illiquid market conditions   .                  Market volatility, illiquid market conditions and disruptions in the credit
markets have made it extremely difficult to value certain of our securities. Subsequent valuations, in light of factors then prevailing, may result in significant changes in the values of these securities in future periods. In addition, at the time
of any sales and
        
   18   

Table of Contents  

settlements of these securities, the price we ultimately realize will depend on the demand and liquidity in the market at that time and may be materially lower than their current fair value. Any
of these factors could require us to take further writedowns in the value of our securities portfolio, which may have an adverse effect on our results of operations in future periods.            In addition, financial markets are susceptible to severe events evidenced by rapid depreciation in asset values accompanied by
a reduction in asset liquidity. Under these extreme conditions, hedging and other risk management strategies may not be as effective at mitigating trading losses as they would be under more normal market conditions. Moreover, under these conditions
market participants are particularly exposed to trading strategies employed by many market participants simultaneously and on a large scale, such as crowded trades. Morgan Stanley s risk management and monitoring processes seek to quantify and
mitigate risk to more extreme market moves. Severe market events have historically been difficult to predict, however, and Morgan Stanley could realize significant losses if unprecedented extreme market events were to occur, such as conditions in
the global financial markets and global economy that prevailed from 2008 into 2009.              Holding large and concentrated positions may expose us to losses.              Concentration of risk may reduce revenues or result in losses in our market-making, proprietary trading, investing, block trading, underwriting and lending
businesses in the event of unfavorable market movements. We commit substantial amounts of capital to these businesses, which often results in our taking large positions in the securities of, or making large loans to, a particular issuer or issuers
in a particular industry, country or region.              We have
incurred, and may continue to incur, significant losses in the real estate sector.              We finance and acquire principal positions in a number of real estate and real estate-related products for our own account, for investment vehicles managed by affiliates in which we also may have a
significant investment, for separate accounts managed by affiliates and for major participants in the commercial and residential real estate markets. We also originate loans secured by commercial and residential properties. Further, we securitize
and trade in a wide range of commercial and residential real estate and real estate-related whole loans, mortgages and other real estate and commercial assets and products, including residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities. These
businesses have been, and may continue to be, adversely affected by the downturn in the real estate sector.             Credit Risk.             Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising from borrower or counterparty default when a borrower, counterparty or obligor does not meet its obligations. For more information on how we monitor and manage credit risk, see  Credit
Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein.              We are exposed
to the risk that third parties that are indebted to us will not perform their obligations.              We incur significant  single name  credit risk exposure through the Institutional Securities business segment. This risk may arise from a variety of business activities, including but not
limited to entering into swap or other derivative contracts under which counterparties have obligations to make payments to us; extending credit to clients through various lending commitments; providing short or long-term funding that is secured by
physical or financial collateral whose value may at times be insufficient to fully cover the loan repayment amount; and posting margin and/or collateral to clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial
counterparties. We incur credit risk in traded securities and loan pools whereby the value of these assets may fluctuate based on realized or expected defaults on the underlying obligations or loans.            We also incur  individual consumer  credit risk in the Global Wealth
Management Group business segment lending to individual investors, including margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities, and residential mortgage loans.       
  
   19   

Table of Contents  

   The global economic downturn continues to impact our  single name  credit risk exposure. While we
believe current valuations and reserves adequately address our perceived levels of risk, there is a possibility that continued difficult economic conditions may further negatively impact our clients and our current credit exposures. In addition, as
a clearing member firm, we finance our customer positions and we could be held responsible for the defaults or misconduct of our customers. Although we regularly review our credit exposures, default risk may arise from events or circumstances that
are difficult to detect or foresee.              Defaults by another
large financial institution could adversely affect financial markets generally.              The commercial soundness of many financial institutions may be closely interrelated as a result of credit, trading, clearing or other relationships between the institutions. As a result, concerns about,
or a default or threatened default by, one institution could lead to significant market-wide liquidity and credit problems, losses or defaults by other institutions. This is sometimes referred to as  systemic risk  and may adversely affect
financial intermediaries, such as clearing agencies, clearing houses, banks, securities firms and exchanges, with which we interact on a daily basis, and therefore could adversely affect Morgan Stanley.             Operational Risk.             Operational risk refers to the risk of financial or other loss, or damage to a
firm s reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, resources, systems or from other internal or external events (e.g., internal or external fraud, legal and compliance risks, damage to physical assets, etc.).
Morgan Stanley may incur operational risk across its full scope of business activities, including revenue-generating activities (e.g., sales and trading) and support functions (e.g., information technology and trade processing). Legal and compliance
risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under  Legal Risk.  For more information on how we monitor and manage operational risk, see  Operational Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein.   
          We are subject to operational risk that could adversely affect our
businesses.              Our businesses are highly dependent on our
ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of transactions across numerous and diverse markets in many currencies. In general, the transactions we process are increasingly complex. We perform the functions required to operate our different
businesses either by ourselves or through agreements with third parties. We rely on the ability of our employees, our internal systems and systems at technology centers operated by third parties to process a high volume of transactions.   
        We also face the risk of operational failure or termination of any of the
clearing agents, exchanges, clearing houses or other financial intermediaries we use to facilitate our securities transactions. In the event of a breakdown or improper operation of our or a third party s systems or improper action by third
parties or employees, we could suffer financial loss, an impairment to our liquidity, a disruption of our businesses, regulatory sanctions or damage to our reputation.       
     Despite the business contingency plans we have in place, our ability to conduct business may be adversely affected by a disruption in the
infrastructure that supports our business and the communities where we are located. This may include a disruption involving physical site access, terrorist activities, disease pandemics, electrical, communications or other services used by Morgan
Stanley, its employees or third parties with whom we conduct business.             Legal Risk.             Legal and compliance risk includes
the risk of exposure to fines, penalties, judgments, damages and/or settlements in connection with regulatory or legal actions as a result of non-compliance with applicable legal or regulatory requirements or litigation. Legal risk also includes
contractual and commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty s performance obligations will be unenforceable. In today s environment of rapid and possibly transformational regulatory change, we also view regulatory change as a
component of legal risk. For more information on how we monitor and manage legal risk, see  Risk Management Legal Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein.       
  
   20   

Table of Contents  

     The financial services industry is subject to extensive regulation, which is undergoing major changes.
             As a major financial services firm, we are subject to
extensive regulation by U.S. federal and state regulatory agencies and securities exchanges and by regulators and exchanges in each of the major markets where it operates. We also face the risk of investigations and proceedings by governmental and
self-regulatory agencies in all countries in which we conduct our business. Interventions by authorities may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief. In addition to the monetary consequences, these
measures could, for example, impact our ability to engage in, or impose limitations on, certain of our businesses. The number of these investigations and proceedings, as well as the amount of penalties and fines sought, has increased substantially
in recent years with regard to many firms in the financial services industry, including us. Significant regulatory action against us could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant
reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business.            In
response to the financial crisis, legislators and regulators, both in the U.S. and worldwide, are currently considering a wide range of proposals that, if enacted, could result in major changes to the way our global operations are regulated. Some of
these major changes may take effect as early as 2010, and could materially impact the profitability of our businesses, the value of assets we hold, require changes to business practices or force us to discontinue businesses, and expose us to
additional costs, taxes, liabilities and reputational risk.            We
are a bank holding company that has elected to be treated as a financial holding company. As a financial holding company, we are subject to the comprehensive, consolidated supervision and regulation of the Fed, including risk-based capital
requirements and leverage limits. Reform proposals could result in our becoming subject to stricter capital requirements and leverage limits, and could also affect the scope, coverage, or calculation of capital, all of which could adversely affect
our ability to pay dividends, or could require us to reduce business levels or to raise capital, including in ways that may adversely impact our shareholders or creditors. Regulatory reform proposals could also result in the imposition of additional
restrictions on our activities if we were to no longer meet certain capital requirements at the level of the financial holding company.              The financial services industry faces substantial litigation and is subject to regulatory investigations, and we may face damage to our reputation and
legal liability.              We have been named, from time to time,
as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions, and other litigation, as well as investigations or proceedings brought by regulatory agencies, arising in connection with our activities as a global diversified
financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal or regulatory actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages, claims for indeterminate amounts of damages, or may result in penalties, fines, or
other results adverse to us. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial distress. Like any large corporation, we are also subject to risk from potential employee misconduct,
including non-compliance with policies and improper use or disclosure of confidential information.            Substantial legal liability could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations or cause us significant reputational harm, which could seriously harm our business.
For more information regarding legal proceedings in which we are involved see  Legal Proceedings  in Part I, Item 3 herein.              Our business, financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected by governmental fiscal and monetary policies.
             We are affected by fiscal and monetary policies adopted
by regulatory authorities and bodies of the U.S. and other governments. For example, the actions of the Fed and international central banking authorities directly impact our cost of funds for lending, capital raising and investment activities and
may impact the value of financial instruments we hold. In addition, such changes in monetary policy may affect the credit quality of our customers. Changes in domestic and international monetary policy are beyond our control and difficult to
predict.         
   21   

Table of Contents  

     Our commodities activities subject us to extensive regulation, potential catastrophic events and
environmental risks and regulation that may expose us to significant costs and liabilities.              In connection with the commodities activities in our Institutional Securities business segment, we engage in the production, storage, transportation, marketing and trading of several commodities,
including metals (base and precious), agricultural products, crude oil, oil products, natural gas, electric power, emission credits, coal, freight, liquefied natural gas and related products and indices. In addition, we own electricity generating
facilities in the U.S. and Europe; we own TransMontaigne Inc. and its subsidiaries, a group of companies operating in the refined petroleum products marketing and distribution business; and we have an interest in Heidmar Holdings LLC, which owns a
group of companies that provide international marine transportation and U.S. marine logistics services. As a result of these activities, we are subject to extensive and evolving energy, commodities, environmental, health and safety and other
governmental laws and regulations. For example, liability may be incurred without regard to fault under certain environmental laws and regulations for the remediation of contaminated areas. Further, through these activities we are exposed to
regulatory, physical and certain indirect risks associated with climate change. Our commodities business also exposes us to the risk of unforeseen and catastrophic events, including natural disasters, leaks, spills, explosions, release of toxic
substances, fires, accidents on land and at sea, wars, and terrorist attacks that could result in personal injuries, loss of life, property damage, and suspension of operations.            Although we have attempted to mitigate our pollution and other environmental risks by, among other measures, adopting
appropriate policies and procedures for power plant operations, monitoring the quality of petroleum storage facilities and transport vessels and implementing emergency response programs, these actions may not prove adequate to address every
contingency. In addition, insurance covering some of these risks may not be available, and the proceeds, if any, from insurance recovery may not be adequate to cover liabilities with respect to particular incidents. As a result, our financial
condition and results of operations may be adversely affected by these events.            We also expect the other laws and regulations affecting our commodities business to increase in both scope and complexity. During the past several years, intensified scrutiny of certain energy markets by
federal, state and local authorities in the U.S. and abroad and the public has resulted in increased regulatory and legal enforcement, litigation and remedial proceedings involving companies engaged in the activities in which we are engaged. For
example, the U.S. and the EU have increased their focus on the energy markets which has resulted in increased regulation of companies participating in the energy markets, including those engaged in power generation and liquid hydrocarbons trading.
Regulatory reforms currently underway are likely to include significant regulation of OTC derivatives markets, which could include mandated exchange trading and clearing, position limits, margin, capital and registration requirements. We may incur
substantial costs or loss of revenue in complying with current or future laws and regulations and our overall businesses and reputation may be adversely affected by the current legal environment. In addition, failure to comply with these laws and
regulations may result in substantial civil and criminal fines and penalties.              A failure to deal with conflicts of interest appropriately could adversely affect our businesses.              As a global financial services firm that provides products and services to a large and diversified group of clients, including corporations, governments,
financial institutions and individuals, we face potential conflicts of interest in the normal course of business. For example, potential conflicts can occur when there is a divergence of interests between Morgan Stanley and a client, among clients,
or between an employee on the one hand and the Firm or a client on the other. We have policies, procedures and controls that are designed to address potential conflicts of interest. However, identifying and managing potential conflicts of interest
can be complex and challenging, and can become the focus of media and regulatory scrutiny. Indeed, actions that merely appear to create a conflict can put our reputation at risk even if the likelihood of an actual conflict has been mitigated. It is
possible that potential conflicts could give rise to litigation or enforcement actions, which may lead to our clients being less willing to enter into transactions in which a conflict may occur and could adversely affect our businesses.   
     
   22   

Table of Contents  

   Our regulators have the ability to scrutinize our activities for potential conflicts of interest, including
through detailed examinations of specific transactions. In addition, our status as a bank holding company supervised by the Fed subjects us to direct Fed scrutiny with respect to transactions between Morgan Stanley s domestic subsidiary banks
and their affiliates.             Competitive Environment.    
          We face strong competition from other financial services firms, which
could lead to pricing pressures that could materially adversely affect our revenue and profitability.              The financial services industry and all of our businesses are intensely competitive, and we expect them to remain so. We compete with commercial banks, insurance companies, sponsors of mutual funds, hedge
funds, energy companies and other companies offering financial services in the U.S., globally and through the internet. We compete on the basis of several factors, including transaction execution, capital or access to capital, products and services,
innovation, reputation, risk appetite and price. Over time, certain sectors of the financial services industry have become more concentrated, as institutions involved in a broad range of financial services have been acquired by or merged into other
firms or have declared bankruptcy. These developments could result in our competitors gaining greater capital and other resources, such as a broader range of products and services and geographic diversity. We may experience pricing pressures as a
result of these factors and as some of our competitors seek to increase market share by reducing prices. For more information regarding the competitive environment in which we operate, see  Competition  in Part I, Item 1 herein.
             Our ability to retain and attract qualified employees is
critical to the success of our business and the failure to do so may materially adversely affect our performance.              Our people are our most important resource and competition for qualified employees is intense. In order to attract and retain qualified employees, we must
compensate such employees at market levels. Typically, those levels have caused employee compensation to be our greatest expense as compensation is highly variable and changes based on business and individual performance and market conditions. If we
are unable to continue to attract and retain qualified employees, or do so at rates necessary to maintain our competitive position, or if compensation costs required to attract and retain employees become more expensive, our performance, including
our competitive position, could be materially adversely affected. The financial industry may experience more stringent regulation of employee compensation, or employee compensation may be made subject to special taxation, as has been proposed in the
U.K. and France, which could have an adverse effect on our ability to hire or retain the most qualified employees.              Automated trading markets may adversely affect our business and may increase competition.              We have experienced intense price competition in some of our businesses in
recent years. In particular, the ability to execute securities trades electronically on exchanges and through other automated trading markets has increased the pressure on trading commissions. The trend toward direct access to automated, electronic
markets will likely continue. It is possible that we will experience competitive pressures in these and other areas in the future as some of our competitors may seek to obtain market share by reducing prices.             International Risk.               We are subject to numerous political, economic, legal, operational,
franchise and other risks as a result of our international operations which could adversely impact our businesses in many ways.              We are subject to political, economic, legal, operational, franchise and other risks that are inherent in operating in many countries, including risks of
possible nationalization, expropriation, price controls, capital controls, exchange controls and other restrictive governmental actions, as well as the outbreak of hostilities or political and governmental instability. In many countries, the laws
and regulations applicable to the securities and financial
        
   23   

Table of Contents  

services industries are uncertain and evolving, and it may be difficult for us to determine the exact requirements of local laws in every market. Our inability to remain in compliance with local
laws in a particular market could have a significant and negative effect not only on our business in that market but also on our reputation generally. We are also subject to the enhanced risk that transactions we structure might not be legally
enforceable in all cases.            Various emerging market countries have
experienced severe political, economic and financial disruptions, including significant devaluations of their currencies, capital and currency exchange controls, high rates of inflation and low or negative growth rates in their economies. Crime and
corruption, as well as issues of security and personal safety, also exist in certain of these countries. These conditions could adversely impact our businesses and increase volatility in financial markets generally.            The emergence of a pandemic or other widespread health emergency, or concerns
over the possibility of such an emergency, could create economic and financial disruptions in emerging markets and other areas throughout the world, and could lead to operational difficulties (including travel limitations) that could impair our
ability to manage our businesses around the world.            As a U.S.
company, we are required to comply with the economic sanctions and embargo programs administered by OFAC and similar multi-national bodies and governmental agencies worldwide and the FCPA. A violation of a sanction or embargo program or of the FCPA
could subject us, and individual employees, to a regulatory enforcement action as well as significant civil and criminal penalties.             Acquisition Risk.               We may be unable to fully capture the expected value from acquisitions, joint ventures, minority stakes and strategic alliances.              In connection with past or future acquisitions, combinations, joint ventures or
strategic alliances, we face numerous risks and uncertainties combining or integrating the relevant businesses and systems, including the need to combine accounting and data processing systems and management controls and to integrate relationships
with clients and business partners. In the case of joint ventures and minority stakes, we are subject to additional risks and uncertainties because we may be dependent upon, and subject to liability, losses or reputational damage relating to,
systems, controls and personnel that are not under our control. In addition, conflicts or disagreements between us and our joint venture partners may negatively impact the benefits to be achieved by the joint venture. There is no assurance that any
of our acquisitions will be successfully integrated or yield all of the positive benefits anticipated. If we are not able to integrate successfully our past and future acquisitions, there is a risk that our results of operations, financial condition
and cash flows may be materially and adversely affected.            Certain
of our recent and planned business initiatives, including expansions of existing businesses, may bring us into contact, directly or indirectly, with individuals and entities that are not within our traditional client and counterparty base and may
expose us to new asset classes and new markets. These business activities expose us to new and enhanced risks, greater regulatory scrutiny of these activities, increased credit-related, sovereign and operational risks, and reputational concerns
regarding the manner in which these assets are being operated or held.             Risk Management.               Our hedging strategies
and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk.              We have devoted significant resources to develop our risk management policies and procedures and expect to continue to do so in
the future. Nonetheless, our hedging strategies and other risk management techniques may not be fully effective in mitigating our risk exposure in all market environments or against all types of risk,
        
   24   

Table of Contents  

including risks that are unidentified or unanticipated. Some of our methods of managing risk are based upon our use of observed historical market behavior. As a result, these methods may not
predict future risk exposures, which could be significantly greater than the historical measures indicate. Management of market, credit, liquidity, operational, legal and regulatory risks requires, among other things, policies and procedures to
record properly and verify a large number of transactions and events, and these policies and procedures may not be fully effective. For more information on how we monitor and manage market and certain other risks, see  Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management Market Risk  in Part II, Item 7A herein.            For more information regarding the regulatory environment in which we operate, see also  Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1 herein.
              Item 1B.    Unresolved Staff Comments.             Morgan Stanley, like other well-known seasoned issuers, from time to time receives written comments from the staff of the SEC regarding its periodic or current reports under the Exchange Act. There
are no comments that remain unresolved that Morgan Stanley received not less than 180 days before the end of the year to which this report relates that Morgan Stanley believes are material.         
   25   

Table of Contents  

      Item 2.    Properties.             Morgan Stanley and its subsidiaries have offices, operations and data centers
located around the world. Morgan Stanley s properties that are not owned are leased on terms and for durations that are reflective of commercial standards in the communities where these properties are located. Morgan Stanley believes the
facilities it owns or occupies are adequate for the purposes for which they are currently used and are well maintained. Our principal offices consist of the following properties:         

(A)  
  The indicated total aggregate square footage leased does not include space occupied by Morgan Stanley branch offices.     

(B)  
  Morgan Stanley holds the freehold interest in the land and building.     

(C)  
  Option to return half of the space from April 2010 and any amount of space up to the full space after April 2011.           
   26   

Table of Contents  

      Item 3.    Legal Proceedings.             In addition to the matters described below, in the normal course of business,
the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution.
Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such
cases are bankrupt or in financial distress.            The Company is also
involved, from time to time, in other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company s business including, among other matters, accounting and operational
matters, certain of which may result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.            The Company contests liability and/or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending matter. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the
outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages or where investigations and proceedings are in the early stages, the Company cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any,
related to such matters, how or if such matters will be resolved, when they will ultimately be resolved, or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might be. Subject to the foregoing, the Company believes, based on
current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such pending matters will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial condition of the Company, although the outcome of such matters could be material to
the Company s operating results and cash flows for a particular future period depending on, among other things, the level of the Company s revenues or income for such period.             Residential Mortgage-Related Matters.        
       Regulatory and Governmental Matters.      The Company is responding to subpoenas and requests for information
from certain regulatory and governmental entities concerning the origination, purchase, securitization and servicing of subprime and non-subprime residential mortgages and related issues including collateralized debt obligations and credit default
swaps backed by or referencing mortgage pass through certificates.              Class Actions.      Beginning in December 2007, several purported class action complaints were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York (the  SDNY ) asserting claims on
behalf of participants in the Company s 401(k) plan and employee stock ownership plan against the Company and other parties, including certain present and former directors and officers, under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
( ERISA ). In February 2008, these actions were consolidated in a single proceeding, which is styled  In re Morgan Stanley ERISA Litigation . The consolidated complaint relates in large part to the Company s subprime and other
mortgage related losses, but also includes allegations regarding the Company s disclosures, internal controls, accounting and other matters. The consolidated complaint alleges, among other things, that the Company s stock was not a prudent
investment and that risks associated with its stock and its financial condition were not adequately disclosed. On December 9, 2009, the court denied defendants  motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint.            On February 12, 2008, a plaintiff filed a purported class action, which was
amended on November 24, 2008, naming the Company and certain present and former senior executives as defendants and asserting claims for violations of the securities laws. The amended complaint, which is styled  Joel Stratte-McClure, et al.
v. Morgan Stanley, et al. , is currently pending in the SDNY. Subject to certain exclusions, the amended complaint purports to assert claims on behalf of a purported class of persons and entities who purchased shares of the Company s common
stock during the period June 20, 2007 to December 19, 2007 and who suffered damages as a result of such purchases. The allegations in the amended complaint relate in large part to the Company s subprime and other mortgage related
losses, but also include allegations regarding the Company s disclosures, internal controls, accounting and other matters. On April 27, 2009, the Company filed a motion to dismiss the amended complaint.         
   27   

Table of Contents  

   On May 7, 2009, the Company was named as a defendant in a purported class action lawsuit brought under
Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the  Securities Act ), alleging, among other things, that the registration statements and offering documents related to the offerings of approximately $17 billion of mortgage
pass through certificates in 2006 and 2007 contained false and misleading information concerning the pools of residential loans that backed these securitizations. The plaintiffs are seeking, among other relief, class certification, unspecified
compensatory and rescissionary damages, costs, interest and fees. This case, which was consolidated with an earlier lawsuit and is currently styled  In re Morgan Stanley Mortgage Pass-Through Certificate Litig , is pending in the SDNY. On
September 15, 2009, the lead plaintiff filed a consolidated amended complaint which defendants have moved to dismiss.            Beginning in 2007, the Company was named as a defendant in several putative class action lawsuits brought under Sections 11 and 12 of the Securities Act,
related to its role as a member of the syndicates that underwrote offerings of securities and mortgage pass through certificates for certain non-Morgan Stanley related entities that have been exposed to subprime and other mortgage-related losses.
The plaintiffs in these actions allege, among other things, that the registration statements and offering documents for the offerings at issue contained various material misstatements or omissions related to the extent to which the issuers were
exposed to subprime and other mortgage-related risks and other matters and seek various forms of relief including class certification, unspecified compensatory and rescissionary damages, costs, interest and fees. The Company s exposure to
potential losses in these cases may be impacted by various factors including, among other things, the financial condition of the entities that issued the securities and mortgage pass through certificates at issue, the principal amount of the
offerings underwritten by the Company, the financial condition of co-defendants and the willingness and ability of the issuers to indemnify the underwriter defendants. Some of these cases relate to issuers that have filed for bankruptcy, including
 In Re Washington Mutual, Inc. Securities Litigation ,  In re: Lehman Brothers Equity/Debt Securities Litigation  and  In re IndyMac Mortgage-Backed Securities Litigation .  In Re Washington Mutual, Inc. Securities Litigation  is
pending in the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington and relates to several offerings of debt and equity securities issued by Washington Mutual, Inc. during 2006 and 2007. The Company underwrote approximately $1.6
billion of the principal amount of the offerings at issue. On October 27, 2009, the court granted in part and denied in part defendants  motion to dismiss the amended complaint.  In re: Lehman Brothers Equity/Debt Securities
Litigation  is pending in the SDNY and relates to several offerings of debt and equity securities issued by Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. during 2007 and 2008. The Company underwrote over $200 million of the principal amount of the offerings at
issue. The Company and other defendants have moved to dismiss these claims.  In re IndyMac Mortgage-Backed Securities Litigation  is pending in the SDNY and relates to the offerings of mortgage pass through certificates issued by seven trusts
sponsored by affiliates of IndyMac Bancorp during 2006 and 2007. The Company underwrote over $2.4 billion of the principal amount of the offerings at issue. The Company and other defendants have moved to dismiss these claims.              Shareholder Derivative Matter.      A
shareholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the SDNY during November 2007 asserting claims related in large part to losses caused by certain subprime-related trading positions and related matters. The complaint in that lawsuit, which is styled
 Steve Staehr, Derivatively on Behalf of Morgan Stanley v. John J. Mack, et al. , was served on the Company on February 15, 2008. On July 16, 2008, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint, which defendants have moved to dismiss. The
complaint seeks, among other relief, unspecified compensatory damages, restitution, and institution of certain corporate governance reforms.             Auction Rate Securities Matters.             On August 27, 2008, a shareholder derivative complaint, which was styled  Louisiana Municipal Police Employees Retirement System v. Mack, et al. ,
was filed in the SDNY. On September 12, 2008, a second complaint, which was styled  Thomas v. Mack, et al. , was filed in the SDNY. The complaints were substantially similar and named as defendants the members of the Company s Board
of Directors as well as certain current and former officers. Morgan Stanley, on whose behalf the suits were purportedly brought, is named as a nominal defendant in each action. The complaints raised claims of breach of fiduciary duty, abuse of
control, gross mismanagement, and violation of Section 10(b) and Rule 10b-5 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
        
   28   

Table of Contents  

amended, related to the Company s sale of auction rate securities ( ARS ) over the period from June 20, 2007 to the present. Among other things, the complaints alleged that,
over the relevant period, Morgan Stanley s public filings and statements were materially false and misleading in that they failed to disclose the illiquid nature of its ARS inventories and that Morgan Stanley s practices in the sale of ARS
exposed it to significant liability for settlements and judgments. The complaints also alleged that during the relevant period certain defendants sold Morgan Stanley s stock while in possession of material non-public information. The complaints
sought, among other things, unspecified compensatory damages, restitution from the defendants with respect to compensation, benefits and profits obtained, and the institution of certain reforms to Morgan Stanley s internal control functions. On
November 24, 2008, the SDNY ordered the consolidation of the two actions. On February 2, 2009, plaintiffs filed a consolidated amended complaint, styled as  In re Morgan Stanley   Co. Inc. Auction Rate Securities Derivative
Litigation . On June 23, 2009, the SDNY granted defendants  motion to dismiss the consolidated complaint for failure by plaintiffs to make a pre-litigation demand on the Company s Board of Directors. In addition, the SDNY set a
schedule for plaintiffs to make such a demand, for the Board of Directors to respond thereto, and for further proceedings before the SDNY, which may include a motion for leave to file an amended complaint.             Executive Compensation-Related Matter.             A shareholder derivative lawsuit was filed in the Supreme Court of the State of
New York, County of New York, on February 11, 2010 asserting claims for waste, breach of the duty of loyalty and unjust enrichment related to the Company s executive compensation for the fiscal years ended November 30, 2006 and 2007 and the
calendar year ended December 31, 2009. The complaint, which is styled  Security and Fire Professionals of America Retirement Fund, et al. v. John J. Mack, et. al.,  names as defendants the Company s Board of Directors and certain present
and former officers and directors. Morgan Stanley, on whose behalf the lawsuit is purportedly being brought, is named as a nominal defendant. The complaint alleges, among other things, that the total amount of the executive compensation paid for
these years was disproportionately large in relation to the Company s performance. The complaint seeks, among other relief, unspecified compensatory damages, restitution and disgorgement of compensation, benefits and profits, and institution of
certain corporate governance reforms.             China Matter.
            As disclosed in February 2009, the Company uncovered actions
initiated by an employee based in China in an overseas real estate subsidiary that appear to have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. The Company terminated the employee, reported the activity to appropriate authorities and is
cooperating with investigations by the United States Department of Justice and the SEC.               Item 4.    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.        
     There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2009.   
     
   29   

Table of Contents  

      Part II          

Item 5.    Market   
   for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities.               Morgan Stanley s common stock trades on the NYSE under the symbol
 MS.  As of February 22, 2010, Morgan Stanley had approximately 92,935 holders of record; however, Morgan Stanley believes the number of beneficial owners of common stock exceeds this number.            The table below sets forth, for each of the last eight quarters, the low and
high sales prices per share of Morgan Stanley s common stock as reported by Bloomberg Financial Markets and the amount of any cash dividends per share of Morgan Stanley s common stock declared by Morgan Stanley s Board of Directors
for such quarter.         

30   

Table of Contents  

   The table below sets forth the information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of Morgan Stanley
of its common stock during the fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 2009.             Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities       (dollars in millions, except per
share amounts)         

(A)  
  On December 19, 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the Company s outstanding stock under
a share repurchase program (the  Share Repurchase Program ). The Share Repurchase Program is a program for capital management purposes that considers, among other things, business segment capital needs as well as equity-based compensation
and benefit plan requirements. The Share Repurchase Program has no set expiration or termination date. Share repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory approval.     

(B)  
  Includes: (1) shares delivered or attested in satisfaction of the exercise price and/or tax withholding obligations by holders of employee and director stock
options (granted under employee and director stock compensation plans) who exercised options; (2) shares withheld, delivered or attested (under the terms of grants under employee and director stock compensation plans) to offset tax withholding
obligations that occur upon vesting and release of restricted shares; and (3) shares withheld, delivered and attested (under the terms of grants under employee and director stock compensation plans) to offset tax withholding obligations that
occur upon the delivery of outstanding shares underlying restricted stock units. The Company s employee and director stock compensation plans provide that the value of the shares withheld, delivered or attested, shall be valued using the fair
market value of the Company s common stock on the date the relevant transaction occurs, using a valuation methodology established by Morgan Stanley.     

(C)  
  Share purchases under publicly announced programs are made pursuant to open-market purchases, Rule 10b5-1 plans or privately negotiated transactions (including with
employee benefit plans) as market conditions warrant and at prices the Company deems appropriate.              ***         
   31   

Table of Contents  

    Stock performance graph.     The following graph compares the cumulative total
shareholder return (rounded to the nearest whole dollar) of the Company s common stock, the S P 500 Stock Index ( S P 500 ), the S P 500 Diversified Financials Index ( S5DIVF ) and the S P 500 Financials
Index ( S5FINL ) for the last five years. The Company included the S5FINL due to the broader range of financial services companies and related businesses reflected in such index, which is also used by many of the Company s peers. The
graph assumes a $100 investment at the closing price on December 31, 2004 and reinvestment of dividends on the respective dividend payment dates without commissions. Historical prices are adjusted to reflect the spin-off of Discover Financial
Services completed on June 30, 2007. This graph does not forecast future performance of the Company s common stock.         

32   

Table of Contents  

Item 6.   
   Selected Financial Data.                MORGAN STANLEY              SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA        (dollars in millions, except share and per share data)          
       
   33   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Information includes Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC ( MSSB ) effective May 31, 2009 (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).

(2)  
  On December 16, 2008, the Board of Directors of the Company (the  Board ) approved a change in the Company s fiscal year end from November 30 to
December 31 of each year. This change to the calendar year reporting cycle began January 1, 2009. As a result of the change, the Company had a one month transition period in December 2008.     

(3)  
  Certain prior-period information has been reclassified to conform to the current year s presentation.     

(4)  
  Amounts include operating results and gains on secondary offerings related to MSCI Inc. ( MSCI ), operating results and gains (losses) related to the
disposition of Crescent Real Estate Equities Limited Partnership ( Crescent ), operating results of the retail asset management business being sold to Invesco Ltd. ( Invesco ) ( Retail Asset Management ), and other
discontinued operations.     

(5)  
  Amounts shown are used to calculate earnings per basic common share.     

(6)  
  For the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per common share ( EPS ), see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.     

(8)  
  These amounts exclude the current portion of long-term borrowings and include junior subordinated debt issued to capital trusts. At November 30, 2006 and
November 30, 2005, capital units were included in total capital.           
   34   

Table of Contents  

Item 7.   
   Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.                  Introduction.             Morgan Stanley (or the  Company ), a financial holding company, is a
global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. The Company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates,
provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments, financial institutions and individuals. A summary of the activities of each of the business segments is
as follows.             Institutional Securities 
includes capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and market-making activities in equity and fixed
income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; and investment activities.             Global Wealth Management Group , which includes the Company s 51% interest in MSSB (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial
statements), provides brokerage and investment advisory services to individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services; annuity and other
insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.             Asset Management  provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments, which
includes hedge funds and funds of funds, and merchant banking, which includes real estate, private equity and infrastructure, to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third-party distribution channels (see  Discontinued
Operations Retail Asset Management Business  herein). Asset Management also engages in investment activities.             Change in Fiscal Year-End.             On December 16, 2008, the Board approved a change in the Company s fiscal year-end from November 30 to December 31 of each year. This
change to the calendar year reporting cycle began January 1, 2009. As a result of the change, the Company had a one-month transition period in December 2008.            The Company s results of operations for the 12 months ended December 31, 2009
( 2009 ), November 30, 2008 ( fiscal 2008 ), November 30, 2007 ( fiscal 2007 ) and the one month ended December 31, 2008 are discussed below.             Discontinued Operations.              Retail Asset Management Business.     On
October 19, 2009, as part of a restructuring of its Asset Management business segment, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell substantially all of Retail Asset Management, including Van Kampen Investments, Inc. ( Van
Kampen ) to Invesco. This transaction allows the Company s Asset Management business segment to focus on its institutional client base, including corporations, pension plans, large intermediaries, foundations and endowments, sovereign
wealth funds and central banks, among others.            Under the terms of
the definitive agreement, Invesco will purchase substantially all of Retail Asset Management, operating under both the Morgan Stanley and Van Kampen brands, in a stock and cash transaction. The Company will receive a 9.4% minority interest in
Invesco. The transaction, which has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both companies, is expected to close in mid-2010, subject to customary regulatory, client and fund shareholder approvals. The results of Retail Asset Management are
reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.         
   35   

Table of Contents  

    MSCI.     In May 2009, the Company divested all of its remaining ownership
interest in MSCI. The results of MSCI are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.             Crescent.     Discontinued operations in 2009, fiscal 2008 and the one month ended December 31, 2008 include operating results and gains (losses) related to the disposition of
Crescent, a former real estate subsidiary of the Company. The Company completed the disposition of Crescent in the fourth quarter of 2009, whereby the Company transferred its ownership interest in Crescent to Crescent s primary creditor in
exchange for full release of liability on the related loans. The results of Crescent were formerly included in the Asset Management business segment.             Discover.     On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off (the  Discover Spin-off ) of its business segment
Discover Financial Services ( DFS ) to its shareholders. The results of DFS are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of the Discover Spin-off. The fiscal 2008 amount related to costs associated
with a legal settlement between DFS, VISA and MasterCard. See  Other Matters Settlement with DFS  herein for further information.             Quilter Holdings Ltd.     The results of Quilter Holdings Ltd. ( Quilter ), Global Wealth Management Group s former
mass affluent business in the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), are also reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through its sale to Citigroup Inc. ( Citi ) on February 28, 2007. Citi subsequently contributed
Quilter to the MSSB joint venture. The results of MSSB are included within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment s income from continuing operations effective May 31, 2009.            See Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on
discontinued operations.         
   36   

Table of Contents  

      Executive Summary.               Financial Information.           
       
   37   

Table of Contents  

38   

Table of Contents  

N/M  
    Not Meaningful.     

N/A  
    Not Applicable.     

(1)  
  Information includes MSSB effective from May 31, 2009 (see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements).     

(2)  
  Certain prior-period information has been reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation.     

(3)  
  Amounts include operating results and gains on secondary offerings related to MSCI, operating results and gains (losses) related to the disposition of Crescent,
operating results of Retail Asset Management and other discontinued operations.     

(4)  
  For the calculation of basic and diluted EPS, see Note 14 to the consolidated financial statements.     

(5)  
  Regional net revenues in Europe, Middle East and Africa were negatively impacted by the tightening of the Company s credit spreads resulting from the increase in
fair value of certain of the Company s long-term and short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes, in 2009. Regional net revenues reflect the regional view of the Company s consolidated net revenues, on a managed basis, based on the
following methodology:     

Institutional Securities: advisory and equity underwriting client location; debt underwriting revenue recording location; sales and trading trading desk
location. Global Wealth Management Group: global representative location. Asset Management: client location, except for the merchant banking business, which is based on asset location.     

(6)  
  The computation of average common equity for each business segment is based upon an economic capital framework that estimates the amount of equity capital required to
support the businesses over a wide range of market environments while simultaneously satisfying regulatory, rating agency and investor requirements. Economic capital is assigned to each business segment based on a regulatory capital framework plus
additional capital for stress losses. Economic capital requirements are met by regulatory Tier 1 equity (including Morgan Stanley shareholders  equity, certain preferred stock, eligible hybrid capital instruments, non-controlling interests and
deductions of certain goodwill, intangible assets, net deferred tax assets and debt valuation adjustment ( DVA )), subject to regulatory limits. The economic capital framework will evolve over time in response to changes in the business
and regulatory environment and to incorporate enhancements in modeling techniques. The effective tax rates used in the computation of business segment return on average common equity were determined on a separate entity basis.

(8)  
  Tangible common equity equals common shareholders  equity less goodwill and intangible assets net of allowable mortgage servicing rights. The deduction for
goodwill and intangible assets in 2009 includes only the Company s share of MSSB s goodwill and intangible assets.           
   39   

Table of Contents  

(9)  
  Tangible book value per common share equals tangible common equity divided by period end common shares outstanding.     

(11)  
  The effective tax rate for 2009 includes a tax benefit of $331 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, resulting from the cost of anticipated repatriation of non-U.S.
earnings at lower than previously estimated tax rates. Excluding this benefit, the annual effective tax rate for 2009 would have been a benefit of 1%.     

(12)  
  Worldwide employees as of December 31, 2009 include additional worldwide employees of businesses contributed by Citi related to MSSB.     

(13)  
  For a discussion of average liquidity, see  Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity Management Policies Liquidity Reserves  herein.

(14)  
  For a discussion of total capital ratio, Tier 1 capital ratio and Tier 1 leverage ratio, see  Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements 
herein. For a discussion of Tier 1 common ratio, see  Liquidity and Capital Resources The Balance Sheet  herein.     

(15)  
  Amount excludes certain asset management businesses following the decision to sell the Retail Asset Management business to Invesco.     

(16)  
  Equity and fixed income amounts include assets under management or supervision associated with the Asset Management and Global Wealth Management Group business
segments. Other amounts include assets under management or supervision associated with the Global Wealth Management Group business segment.     

(17)  
  Amounts reported for Alternatives reflect the Company s invested equity in those funds and include a range of alternative investment products such as hedge funds,
funds of hedge funds and funds of private equity funds.     

(18)  
  Revenues and expenses associated with these assets are included in the Company s Asset Management and Global Wealth Management Group business segments.

(19)  
  Amounts include Asset Management s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a non-controlling interest.     

(20)  
  Percentages represent income from continuing operations before income taxes as a percentage of net revenues.     

(21)  
  Global representatives as of December 31, 2009 include additional global representatives of businesses contributed by Citi related to MSSB.     

(23)  
  Beginning in 2009, amounts for Corporate and other accounts are presented in the appropriate client segment.     

(24)  
  Client assets per global representative equal total period-end client assets divided by period-end global representative headcount.     

(25)  
  Approximately $54 billion of the bank deposit balances as of December 31, 2009 are held at Company-affiliated depositories with the remainder held at
Citi-affiliated depositories. These deposit balances are held at certain of the Company s Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the  FDIC ) insured depository institutions for the benefit of retail clients through their accounts.
    
            Global Market and Economic Conditions in 2009.              During 2009, global market and economic conditions improved, and global capital markets recovered from the severe downturn that occurred during the Fall of 2008.            In the U.S., economic conditions improved, liquidity began to return to the
fixed income markets, the initial public offering market reopened and the securitization market began to reopen, while the real estate markets continued to be adversely impacted. Major U.S. equity market indices ended 2009 higher as compared with
the beginning of the year, primarily due to better than expected corporate earnings and investor confidence in an economic recovery. Government spending increased, while consumer spending, household balance sheets and business spending remained
challenged. The unemployment rate increased to 10.0% at December 31, 2009 from 7.4% at December 31, 2008. The Federal Open Market Committee ( FOMC ) kept its interest rates at historically low levels, and at December 31,
2009, the federal funds target rate was between zero and 0.25%, and the discount rate was 0.50%. During 2009, the interest rate on required reserve balances and on excess balances (balances held to satisfy reserve requirements and balances held in
excess of required reserve requirements) was 0.25%. During 2009, the FOMC pursued a quantitative easing policy in which the FOMC purchased securities with the objective of improving conditions within the credit markets by increasing the money
supply. In February 2010, the FOMC raised the discount rate by 0.25% to 0.75%.            In Europe, major European equity market indices ended 2009 higher as compared with the beginning of the year. Economic conditions, however, continued to be challenged by adverse economic developments that
began in the Fall of 2008. The euro area unemployment rate increased to 10.0% at December 31, 2009 from 8.2% at December 2008. During the first half of 2009, the European Central Bank ( ECB ) lowered its benchmark
        
   40   

Table of Contents  

interest rate by 1.50% to a record low of 1.00%, and during the second half of 2009, the ECB left its benchmark interest rate unchanged. During the first half of 2009, the Bank of England
( BOE ) lowered its benchmark interest rate by 1.50% to 0.50%, and during the second half of 2009, the BOE left its benchmark interest rate unchanged. During 2009, the BOE pursued a quantitative easing policy in which the BOE purchased
securities, including U.K. Government Gilts, with the objective of increasing the money supply.            In Asia, economic conditions continued to be challenged by adverse economic developments that began in the Fall of 2008, including a decline in exports in both China and Japan. Despite lower exports,
China s economy continued to benefit from government spending for capital projects. Equity markets in both China and Japan ended 2009 higher, as compared with the beginning of the year. The Bank of Japan ( BOJ ) pursued a quantitative
easing policy in which the BOJ would purchase securities with the objective of increasing liquidity and reducing the reliance on short-term liquidity by providing longer term liquidity via Japanese government bond purchases.              Overview of 2009 Financial Results Compared with Fiscal 2008.   
           The Company recorded net income applicable to Morgan Stanley of
$1,346 million in 2009, a 21% decrease from $1,707 million in fiscal 2008. Comparisons of the 2009 results with fiscal 2008 were impacted by seven months  results of MSSB, which closed on May 31, 2009.            Net revenues (total revenues less interest expense) increased 6% to $23,358
million in 2009. Net revenues included losses of approximately $5,510 million in 2009 related to the tightening of the Company s credit spreads on certain long-term and short-term borrowings accounted for at fair value compared with gains of
$5,594 million in fiscal 2008 related to the widening of the Company s credit spreads on such borrowings. Net interest revenues were $990 million in 2009 as compared with $3,367 million in fiscal 2008. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to
a lower interest rate environment coupled with a lower average mix of interest-earning assets and interest-bearing liabilities, including lower client balances in the Company s prime brokerage business. Net revenues in 2009 also included a gain
of $319 million related to the sale of undivided participating interests in a portion of the Company s claims against a derivative counterparty that filed for bankruptcy protection. Non-interest expenses increased 7% to $22,501 million in
2009, primarily due to higher compensation costs, partly offset by lower non-compensation costs. Compensation and benefits expense increased 21%, primarily reflecting the consolidation of MSSB. Non-compensation expenses decreased 11%, primarily due
to the Company s initiatives to reduce costs, lower levels of business activity and non-cash charges of $725 million related to the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets in fiscal 2008, partially offset by additional operating costs and
integration costs related to MSSB. Results included in discontinued operations for 2009 reflected the pre-tax net gain of $625 million related to the sale of the Company s remaining ownership interest in MSCI and the disposition of Crescent
(see Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements). Diluted EPS were $(0.77) in 2009 compared with $1.39 in fiscal 2008. Diluted EPS from continuing operations were $(0.93) in 2009 compared with $0.88 in fiscal 2008. Due to the Company s
repurchase of its Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock ( Series D Preferred Stock ), the Company incurred a negative adjustment of $850 million in its calculation of basic and diluted EPS (reduction to earnings (losses)
applicable to the Company s common shareholders) for 2009 due to the accelerated amortization of the issuance discount on the Series D Preferred Stock.            The Company s effective income tax rate from continuing operations was a benefit of 39% in 2009. The Company recognized a tax benefit of $331 million in
2009, resulting from the cost of anticipated repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at lower than previously estimated tax rates. Excluding this benefit, the annual effective tax rate in 2009 would have been a benefit of 1%. The annual effective tax rate
in 2009 is reflective of the geographic mix of earnings and includes tax benefits associated with the anticipated use of domestic tax credits and the utilization of state net operating losses.            The results for fiscal 2008 included a pre-tax gain of $687 million related to
the sale of MSWM S.V., the Spanish onshore mass affluent wealth management business (see Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements).         
   41   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s effective income tax rate from continuing operations was a benefit of 2% in fiscal 2008.
The annual effective tax rate in fiscal 2008 is reflective of the geographic mix of earnings and includes tax benefits associated with domestic tax credits and tax-exempt income and tax charges associated with nondeductible goodwill impairment
charges.              Overview of 2009 Segment Results Compared with
Fiscal 2008.                Institutional
Securities.      Institutional Securities recorded income from continuing operations before income taxes of $982 million in 2009, a 31% decrease from fiscal 2008.            Net revenues decreased 13% to $12,777 million in 2009, which reflected losses of
approximately $5,421 million resulting from the tightening of the Company s credit spreads on certain long-term and short-term borrowings accounted for at fair value compared with gains of $5,515 million resulting from the widening of the
Company s credit spreads on such borrowings in fiscal 2008. In addition, 2009 reflected higher net revenues from investment banking.            Investment banking revenues increased 23% to $4,454 million from fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher revenues from underwriting transactions, partially
offset by lower advisory fees. Advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $1,488 million, a decrease of 14% from fiscal 2008. Underwriting revenues increased 57% from fiscal 2008 reflecting higher levels of market
activity.            Equity sales and trading revenues decreased 66% to
$3,353 million in 2009 from fiscal 2008. The decline in 2009 was primarily due to lower net revenues from derivative products and equity cash products, reflecting lower levels of market volume and market volatility, and lower average prime brokerage
client balances. Equity sales and trading revenues were also negatively impacted by losses of $1,738 million in 2009 due to the tightening of the Company s credit spreads resulting from the increase in the fair value of certain of the
Company s long-term and short-term borrowings accounted for at fair value compared with a benefit of approximately $1,604 million in fiscal 2008 due to the widening of the Company s credit spreads on such borrowings. Fixed income
sales and trading revenues increased 30% to $5,017 million in 2009 from $3,862 million in fiscal 2008. Fixed income sales and trading revenues were negatively impacted by losses of approximately $3,321 million from the tightening of the
Company s credit spreads resulting from the increase in the fair value of certain of the Company s long-term and short-term borrowings accounted for at fair value compared with a benefit of approximately $3,524 million in fiscal 2008 due
to the widening of the Company s credit spreads on such borrowings. Results for 2009 also reflected lower revenues from commodities. Results in 2009 included a net gain of $319 million related to the sale of undivided participating
interests in a portion of the Company s claims against a derivative counterparty that filed for bankruptcy protection.            In 2009, other sales and trading net revenues reflected net gains of $183 million compared with net losses of $3,109 million in fiscal 2008. Results for
2009 included net gains of $804 million (mark-to-market valuations and realized gains of $4,042 million, partially offset by losses on related hedges of $3,238 million) associated with loans and lending commitments compared with net losses of $3,335
million (negative mark-to-market valuations and losses of $6,311 million, net of gains on related hedges of $2,976 million) in fiscal 2008. Results in 2009 also included losses of $362 million, reflecting the improvement in the Company s
debt-related credit spreads on certain debt related to China Investment Corporation Ltd. s ( CIC ) investment in the Company compared with gains of $387 million in fiscal 2008. Fiscal 2008 included losses related to mortgage-related
securities portfolios in the Company s domestic subsidiary banks, Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Trust (collectively, the  Subsidiary Banks ), and mark-to-market gains on certain swaps previously designated as hedges of
a portion of the Company s long-term debt.            Principal
transactions net investment losses aggregating $875 million were recognized in 2009 as compared with net investment losses aggregating $2,478 million in fiscal 2008.         
   42   

Table of Contents  

   Non-interest expenses decreased 11% to $11,795 million, primarily due to lower non-compensation costs.
Non-compensation expenses decreased 26%, resulting from the Company s initiatives to reduce costs and a charge of approximately $694 million for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets related to certain fixed income businesses
recorded in fiscal 2008.              Global Wealth Management
Group.      Global Wealth Management Group recorded income from continuing operations before income taxes of $559 million compared with $1,154 million in fiscal 2008. The current year included seven months of operating
results for MSSB, which closed on May 31, 2009. Fiscal 2008 included a pre-tax gain of $687 million related to the sale of MSWM S.V. Fiscal 2008 also included a charge of $532 million associated with the Auction Rate Securities
( ARS ) repurchase program and $108 million associated with subsequent writedowns of some of these securities that were repurchased (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements).            Net revenues were $9,390 million, a 34% increase over fiscal 2008, primarily
related to higher revenues from asset management, distribution and administration fees, higher commission revenues, higher revenues from principal transactions trading activities, higher investment banking revenues and the consolidation of MSSB,
partially offset by lower net interest. Client assets in fee-based accounts increased 175% to $379 billion and decreased as a percentage of total client assets to 24% compared with 25% as of December 31, 2008. In addition, total client assets
rose to $1,560 billion from $550 billion as of December 31, 2008, primarily due to the consolidation of MSSB.            Total non-interest expenses were $8,831 million, a 51% increase from fiscal 2008. Compensation and benefits expense increased 60% in 2009, primarily due to
the consolidation of MSSB. Non-compensation costs increased 32%, primarily due to the operating costs of MSSB, the amortization of MSSB s intangible assets and integration costs for MSSB. As a result of the MSSB transaction, the number of
global representatives increased 117% to 18,135 at December 31, 2009 from 8,356 at December 31, 2008.              Asset Management   .     Asset Management recorded a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $673 million
in 2009 compared with a loss from continuing operations before income taxes of $1,423 million in fiscal 2008. Net revenues of $1,337 million in 2009 increased 144% from fiscal 2008 due to higher revenues in the core businesses, which include
traditional equity and fixed income funds, hedge funds and fund of funds, in addition to lower losses in the merchant banking business. The increase in 2009 primarily reflected lower principal investment losses, partially offset by lower asset
management, distribution and administrative fees, primarily reflecting lower average assets under management. The results in 2009 also reflected losses related to certain real estate funds sponsored and consolidated by the Company. Assets under
management or supervision within Asset Management were $266 billion at December 31, 2009, down from $290 billion at December 31, 2008, a decrease of 8%, reflecting net customer outflows of $41.1 billion, primarily in the
Company s money market, long-term fixed income and equity funds. Non-interest expenses increased 2% from fiscal 2008 to $2,010 million. Compensation and benefits expense increased 17%, primarily due to higher net revenues.              Overview of the one month ended December 31, 2008 Financial Results.
             The Company recorded a net loss applicable to Morgan
Stanley of $1,288 million in the one month ended December 31, 2008 compared with net income of $626 million in the one month ended December 31, 2007. Net revenues (total revenues less interest expense) decreased to $(968) million,
primarily due to sales and trading losses in the Institutional Securities business segment. Non-interest expenses decreased 47% to $1,059 million, primarily due to lower compensation costs. Compensation and benefits expense decreased 59%, primarily
reflecting lower incentive-based compensation accruals due to lower net revenues in the Institutional Securities business segment. Diluted earnings (loss) per share in the one month ended December 31, 2008 were $(1.62) compared with $0.57 in
the one month ended December 31, 2007.            The Company s
effective tax rate from continuing operations was 36% in the one month ended December 31, 2008.         
   43   

Table of Contents  

      Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations.             The Company s results of operations may be materially affected by market
fluctuations and by economic factors. In addition, results of operations in the past have been, and in the future may continue to be, materially affected by many factors of a global nature, including the effect of political and economic conditions
and geopolitical events; the effect of market conditions, particularly in the global equity, fixed income and credit markets, including corporate and mortgage (commercial and residential) lending and commercial real estate investments; the impact of
current, pending and future legislation, regulation, and legal actions in the U.S. and worldwide; the level and volatility of equity, fixed income and commodity prices, and interest rates, currency values and other market indices; the availability
and cost of both credit and capital as well as the credit ratings assigned to the Company s unsecured short-term and long-term debt; investor sentiment and confidence in the financial markets; the Company s reputation; the actions and
initiatives of current and potential competitors; and technological changes. Such factors also may have an impact on the Company s ability to achieve its strategic objectives on a global basis. For a further discussion of these and other
important factors that could affect the Company s business, see  Competition  and  Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1, and  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A.             Results of Operations.             The following items significantly affected the Company s results of
operations in 2009, fiscal 2008 and the one month ended December 31, 2008.              Morgan Stanley Debt.        Net revenues reflected (losses) gains from the (tightening) widening of the Company s credit spreads on certain long-term and
short-term borrowings, including structured notes and junior subordinated debentures, that are accounted for at fair value as follows:         
            In addition, in 2009, fiscal 2008 and the
one month ended December 31, 2008, the Company recorded gains of approximately $491 million, $2.3 billion and $73 million, respectively, from repurchasing its debt in the open market. In fiscal 2008, the Company also recorded mark-to-market
gains of approximately $1.4 billion on certain swaps previously designated as hedges of a portion of the Company s long-term debt. These swaps were no longer considered hedges once the related debt was repurchased by the Company ( i.e .,
the swaps were  de-designated  as hedges). During the period the swaps were hedging the debt, changes in fair value of these instruments were generally offset by adjustments to the basis of the debt being hedged.            
   44   

Table of Contents  

     Real Estate Investments.        The Company recorded losses in the
following business segments related to real estate investments. These amounts exclude investments that benefit certain deferred compensation and employee co-investment plans.         

(1)  
  Losses related to net realized and unrealized losses from the Company s limited partnership investments in real estate funds and are reflected in Principal
transactions net investment revenues in the consolidated statements of income.     

(2)  
  Losses related to net realized and unrealized losses from real estate investments in the Company s merchant banking business and are reflected in Principal
transactions net investment revenues in the consolidated statements of income. In fiscal 2008, losses included writedowns on its investment in Crescent of approximately $250 million prior to the Company consolidating its assets and liabilities.
These writedowns are reflected in Principal transactions investments in the consolidated statements of income.     

(3)  
  Amounts related to Crescent.              See  Other Matters Real Estate  herein for further information.       
       Corporate Lending   .     The Company recorded the following amounts primarily associated with loans and
lending commitments carried at fair value within the Institutional Securities business segment:         

(1)  
  Amounts include realized and unrealized gains (losses).                Mortgage-Related Trading.        The Company recognized mortgage-related trading losses relating to commercial
mortgage-backed securities, commercial whole loan positions, U.S. subprime mortgage proprietary trading exposures and non-subprime residential mortgages of $0.6 billion, $2.6 billion and $0.1 billion in 2009, fiscal 2008 and the one month ended
December 31, 2008, respectively.              Sale of Bankruptcy
Claims   .     In 2009, the Company recorded a gain of $319 million related to the sale of undivided participating interests in a portion of the Company s claims against a derivative counterparty that filed for
bankruptcy protection. For further information, see  Other Matters Sale of Bankruptcy Claims  herein.              Monoline Insurers.      Monoline insurers ( Monolines ) provide credit enhancement to capital markets transactions.
2009 included losses of $231 million related to Monoline credit exposures as compared with losses of $1.7 billion in fiscal 2008 and losses of $203 million in the one month ended December 31, 2008. The current credit environment continued to
affect the capacity of such financial guarantors. The Company s direct exposure to Monolines is limited to bonds that are insured by Monolines and to derivative contracts with a Monoline as counterparty (principally MBIA Inc.). The
Company s exposure to Monolines as of December 31, 2009 consisted primarily of asset-backed securities bonds of approximately $458 million in the portfolio of the Company s
        
   45   

Table of Contents  

Subsidiary Banks that are collateralized primarily by first and second lien subprime mortgages enhanced by financial guarantees, approximately $2.0 billion in insured municipal bond
securities and approximately $651 million in net counterparty exposure (gross exposure of approximately $5.4 billion net of cumulative credit valuation adjustments of approximately $2.8 billion and net of hedges). Net counterparty exposure is
defined as potential loss to the Company over a period of time in an event of 100% default of a Monoline, assuming zero recovery. The Company s hedging program for Monoline risk includes the use of transactions that effectively mitigate certain
market risk components of existing underlying transactions with the Monolines.              MSSB.      During 2009, the Company recorded deal closing costs of $221 million and integration costs of $280 million. Deal closing costs include a one-time expense of $124
million primarily for replacement of deferred compensation awards for MSSB retirement-eligible employees. The costs of these replacement awards were fully allocated to Citi.              Structured Investment Vehicles.        The Company recognized net gains of $164 million in
2009 and losses of $470 million and $84 million in fiscal 2008 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively, related to securities issued by structured investment vehicles ( SIV ). The Company no longer has any SIV
positions on the consolidated statements of financial condition as of December 31, 2009.              Income Tax Benefit.      The Company recognized a tax benefit of $331 million in 2009 resulting from the cost of anticipated repatriation of non-U.S. earnings at lower than
previously estimated tax rates.             Goodwill and
Intangibles.      Impairment charges related to goodwill and intangible assets were $16 million in 2009 and $725 million for fiscal 2008 (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements).              Subsidiary Banks   .     The Company
recorded gains of approximately $140 million in 2009 and losses of approximately $900 million in fiscal 2008 related to mortgage-related securities portfolios of the Subsidiary Banks.              ARS.      Under the terms of various agreements entered into with government agencies and the
terms of the Company s announced offer to repurchase, the Company agreed to repurchase at par certain ARS held by retail clients that were purchased through the Company. In addition, the Company agreed to reimburse retail clients who have sold
certain ARS purchased through the Company at a loss. Fiscal 2008 reflected charges of $532 million for the ARS repurchase program and writedowns of $108 million associated with ARS held in inventory (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial
statements).              Sales of Subsidiaries and Other
Items.      Results for fiscal 2008 included a pre-tax gain of $687 million related to the sale of MSWM S.V.               Equity Capital-Related Transactions.             During fiscal 2008, the Company entered into several capital-related transactions. Such transactions included the sale of
equity units (the  Equity Units ) to a wholly owned subsidiary of CIC for approximately $5.6 billion and the issuance to Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. ( MUFG ) of shares of Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual
Convertible Preferred Stock ( Series B Preferred Stock ) and shares of Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock ( Series C Preferred Stock ) for a total of $9 billion. In addition, the Company, as part of the
Capital Purchase Program ( CPP ), issued to the U.S. Treasury 10,000,000 shares of Series D Preferred Stock and a warrant to purchase 65,245,759 shares of the Company s common stock (the  Warrant ) for a purchase price of
$10 billion.            In June 2009, the Company repurchased the 10,000,000
shares of Series D Preferred Stock from the U.S. Treasury at the liquidation preference amount plus accrued and unpaid dividends, for an aggregate repurchase price of $10,086 million. As a result of the Company s repurchase of the Series D
Preferred Stock, the Company incurred a one-time negative adjustment of $850 million in its calculation of basic and diluted EPS (reduction to earnings (losses) applicable to the Company s common shareholders) for 2009 due to the accelerated
amortization of the issuance discount on the Series D Preferred Stock.         
   46   

Table of Contents  

   In August 2009, under the terms of the CPP securities purchase agreement, the Company repurchased the
Warrant from the U.S. Treasury for $950 million. The repurchase of the Series D Preferred Stock in the amount of $10.0 billion and the Warrant for $950 million reduced the Company s total equity by $10,950 million in 2009.            In addition, during 2009, the Company issued common stock for approximately $6.9
billion in two registered public offerings in May and June 2009. MUFG elected to participate in both offerings, and in one of the offerings, MUFG received $0.7 billion of common stock in exchange for 640,909 shares of the Company s Series C
Preferred Stock.            See Note 13 to the consolidated financial
statements for further discussion of these capital-related transactions.               Business Segments.             Substantially all of the Company s operating revenues and operating expenses can be directly attributed to its business segments. Certain revenues and expenses have been allocated to each business segment, generally in proportion to
its respective revenues or other relevant measures.            As a result
of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category to reconcile the business segment results to the Company s consolidated results. Income before taxes
in Intersegment Eliminations primarily represents the effect of timing differences associated with the revenue and expense recognition of commissions paid by the Asset Management business segment to the Global Wealth Management Group business
segment associated with sales of certain products and the related compensation costs paid to the Global Wealth Management Group business segment s global representatives. Intersegment eliminations also reflect the effect of fees paid by the
Institutional Securities business segment to the Global Wealth Management Group business segment related to the bank deposit program. Losses before income taxes recorded in Intersegment Eliminations were $11 million, $17 million, $84 million and $1
million in 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively.         
   47   

Table of Contents  

    INSTITUTIONAL SECURITIES              INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION          
       
   48   

Table of Contents  

     Other Financial Information.               Investment Banking.             Investment banking revenues were as follows:         
          Investment banking revenues are composed of fees from advisory services and revenues from the underwriting of securities offerings and syndication of loans.             Sales and Trading.             Sales and trading revenues were as follows:         
          Sales and trading revenues are composed of
principal transactions trading revenues, commissions and net interest revenues (expenses). In assessing the profitability of its sales and trading activities, the Company views principal trading, commissions and net interest revenues (expenses) in
the aggregate. In addition, decisions relating to principal transactions are based on an overall review of aggregate revenues and costs associated with each transaction or series of transactions. This review includes, among other things, an
assessment of the potential gain or loss associated with a transaction, including any associated commissions, dividends, the interest income or expense associated with financing or hedging the Company s positions, and other related expenses.
           The components of the Company s sales and trading revenues
are as follows:             Principal
Transactions Trading . Principal transactions trading revenues include revenues from customers  purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company s
positions, as well as proprietary trading activities for its own account.             Commissions . Commission revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and over-the-counter ( OTC ) equity securities and options.             Net Interest .  Interest and dividend revenues and interest expense are a function of the level and mix of
total assets and liabilities, including financial instruments owned and financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, reverse repurchase and repurchase agreements, trading strategies, customer activity in the Company s prime brokerage
business, and the prevailing level, term structure and volatility of interest rates. Certain reverse
        
   49   

Table of Contents  

repurchase and repurchase agreements and securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions may be entered into with different customers using the same underlying securities, thereby
generating a spread between the interest revenue on the reverse repurchase agreements or securities borrowed transactions and the interest expense on the repurchase agreements or securities loaned transactions.              Sales and trading revenues by business were as follows:         

(1)  
  All prior-period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation.     

(2)  
  Other sales and trading net revenues primarily include net gains (losses) from loans and lending commitments and related hedges associated with the Company s
lending and other corporate activities.               2009
Compared with Fiscal 2008               Investment
Banking   .     Investment banking revenues increased 23% in 2009 from fiscal 2008, as higher revenues from equity and fixed income underwriting transactions were partially offset by lower advisory revenues. In 2009,
advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $1,488 million, a decrease of 14% from fiscal 2008, reflecting lower levels of market activity. Underwriting revenues of $2,966 million increased 57% from fiscal 2008,
reflecting higher levels of market activity, as equity underwriting revenues increased 62% to $1,694 million and fixed income underwriting revenues increased 51% to $1,272 million. Underwriting fees in 2009 reflected a significant increase in market
activity from 2008 levels, which were affected by unprecedented market turmoil and challenging market conditions.              Sales and Trading Revenues   .     Total sales and trading revenues decreased 20% in 2009 from fiscal 2008, reflecting
lower equity sales and trading revenues, partially offset by higher other sales and trading revenues and by higher fixed income sales and trading revenues.             Equity .    Equity sales and trading revenues decreased 66% to $3,353 million in 2009 from fiscal
2008. The decrease in 2009 was primarily due to a significant reduction in net revenues from derivative products and equity cash products, reflecting lower levels of market volume and market volatility, reduced levels of client activity and lower
average prime brokerage client balances. Equity sales and trading revenues reflected losses of $1,738 million due to the tightening of the Company s credit spreads during 2009 resulting from the increase in the fair value of certain of the
Company s long-term and short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes, for which the fair value option was elected, compared with a benefit of approximately $1,604 million in fiscal 2008 related to the widening of the Company s
credit spreads.            In 2009, equity sales and trading revenues also
reflected unrealized gains of approximately $198 million related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of the counterparties  credit default spreads compared with losses of $300 million in
fiscal 2008 related to the widening of the counterparties  credit default spreads. The Company also recorded unrealized losses of approximately $154 million in 2009 related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable
to the tightening of the Company s credit default swap spreads compared with gains of $125 million in fiscal 2008 related to the widening of the Company s credit default swap spreads. The unrealized losses and gains do not reflect any
gains or losses on related non-derivative hedging instruments.         
   50   

Table of Contents  

    Fixed Income .    Fixed income sales and trading revenues increased $1,155 million
to $5,017 million in 2009 from $3,862 million in fiscal 2008. Interest rate, currency and credit products net revenues increased 145% in 2009 primarily due to strong investment grade and distressed debt trading results, partly offset by lower levels
of client activity. Results in 2009 also included a gain of $319 million related to the sale of undivided participating interests in a portion of the Company s claims against a derivative counterparty that filed for bankruptcy protection.
Commodity net revenues decreased 31% in 2009, primarily reflecting reduced levels of client activity and unfavorable market conditions.            In 2009, fixed income sales and trading revenues reflected net unrealized gains of approximately $3,462 million related to changes in the fair value of net
derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of the counterparties  credit default spreads compared with unrealized losses of approximately $6,560 million in fiscal 2008 related to the widening of the counterparties  credit default
spreads. The Company also recorded unrealized losses of approximately $1,938 million in 2009, related to changes in the fair value of net derivative contracts attributable to the tightening of the Company s credit default swap spreads compared
with unrealized gains of approximately $1,968 million in fiscal 2008 related to the widening of the Company s credit default swap spreads. The unrealized losses and gains on credit default spreads do not reflect any gains or losses on related
non-derivative hedging instruments.            In addition, fixed income
sales and trading revenues in 2009 were negatively impacted by losses of approximately $3,321 million from the tightening of the Company s credit spreads resulting from the increase in the fair value of certain of the Company s long-term
and short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes, for which the fair value option was elected. Fiscal 2008 reflected a benefit of approximately $3,524 million due to the widening of the Company s credit spreads on such borrowings.
            Other .    In addition to the equity
and fixed income sales and trading revenues discussed above, sales and trading revenues included other trading revenues, consisting primarily of certain activities associated with the Company s corporate lending activities. In connection with
its corporate lending activities, the Company provides to select clients loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) that are generally classified as either  event-driven  or  relationship-driven. 
 Event-driven  loans and lending commitments refer to activities associated with a particular event or transaction, such as to support client merger, acquisition or recapitalization transactions.  Relationship-driven  loans and
lending commitments are generally made to expand business relationships with select clients. For further information about the Company s corporate lending activities, see Item 7A,  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market
Risk Credit Risk  herein. The fair value measurement of loans and lending commitments takes into account certain fee income that is attributable to the contingent commitment contract.            In 2009, other sales and trading net revenues reflected net gains of
$183 million compared with net losses of $3,109 million in fiscal 2008. Results for 2009 included net gains of $804 million (mark-to-market valuations and realized gains of $4,042 million, partially offset by losses on related hedges of $3,238
million) associated with loans and lending commitments. Results for fiscal 2008 included net losses of $3,335 million (negative mark-to-market valuations and losses of $6,311 million, net of gains on related hedges of $2,976 million) associated with
loans and lending commitments largely related to certain  event-driven  lending to non-investment grade companies. The valuation of these commitments could change in future periods depending on, among other things, the extent that they are
renegotiated or repriced or if the associated acquisition transaction does not occur. Results in 2009 also included losses of $362 million, reflecting the improvement in the Company s debt-related credit spreads on certain debt related to
CIC s investment in the Company compared with gains of $387 million in fiscal 2008.            In fiscal 2008, other sales and trading revenues also included writedowns of securities of approximately $1.2 billion in the Company s Subsidiary Banks and mark-to-market gains of approximately
$1,352 million on certain swaps previously designated as hedges of a portion of the Company s long-term debt. These swaps were no longer considered hedges once the related debt was repurchased by the Company ( i.e. , the swaps were
 de-designated  as hedges). During the period in which the swaps were hedging the debt, changes in fair value of these instruments were generally offset by adjustments to the basis of the debt being hedged.         
   51   

Table of Contents  

     Principal Transactions Investments.      The Company s investments
generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the investments may involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of
business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.            Principal transactions net investment losses of $875 million were recognized in 2009 as compared with net investment losses of $2,478 million in fiscal 2008. The losses were primarily related to net
realized and unrealized losses from the Company s limited partnership investments in real estate funds and investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans.              Other.      Other revenues decreased 80% in 2009
compared with fiscal 2008. During 2009, the Company recorded gains of approximately $465 million from the Company s repurchase of debt in the open market compared with approximately $2.1 billion in fiscal 2008 (see  Certain Factors
Affecting Results of Operations Morgan Stanley Debt  herein for further discussion).              Non-interest Expenses.      Non-interest expenses decreased 11% in 2009, primarily due to lower non-compensation expense. Compensation and benefits expense increased 1%
from fiscal 2008. Non-compensation expenses decreased 26% in 2009, partly due to the Company s initiatives to reduce costs. Occupancy and equipment expense decreased 11% in 2009, primarily due to lower leasing costs associated with office
facilities. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees decreased 20% in 2009, primarily due to decreased trading activity. Marketing and business development expense decreased 43% in 2009, primarily due to lower levels of business activity. Professional
services expense decreased 18% in 2009, primarily due to lower consulting and legal fees. Other expenses decreased 50% in 2009. In fiscal 2008, other expenses included $694 million related to the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets related
to certain fixed income businesses. Excluding the fiscal 2008 impairment charges, other expenses decreased in 2009, primarily due to lower levels of business activity and lower litigation expense.             Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007             Investment banking revenues decreased 34% in fiscal 2008, reflecting the
unprecedented market turmoil that significantly reduced levels of market activity. Advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $1,740 million, a decrease of 32% from fiscal 2007. Advisory fees in fiscal 2008 reflected
lower levels of activity due to the challenging market environment. Equity underwriting revenues decreased 33% to $1,045 million in fiscal 2008, reflecting significantly lower levels of market activity, particularly for initial public offerings.
Fixed income underwriting revenues decreased 41% to $845 million in fiscal 2008. Fiscal 2008 revenues were impacted by significantly lower levels of market activity across most products, particularly loan syndications and securitized products.
           Total sales and trading revenues increased 33% in fiscal 2008.
Equity sales and trading revenues increased 10% to $9,968 million in fiscal 2008 and reflected higher net revenues from derivative products and slightly higher results in prime brokerage. Equity sales and trading revenues also benefited from the
widening of the Company s credit spreads on financial instruments that are accounted for at fair value, including, but not limited to, those for which the fair value option was elected. As previously mentioned, equity sales and trading revenues
in fiscal 2008 reflected approximately $1,604 million due to the widening of the Company s credit spreads. Revenues from derivative products reflected higher customer flows and high levels of volatility. Principal trading strategies
reflected significantly lower revenues in fiscal 2008 as the Company exited select proprietary trading strategies. Although prime brokerage revenues increased in fiscal 2008, in the fourth quarter, the Company s prime brokerage
business experienced significant outflows as clients withdrew their cash balances and reallocated positions. These outflows have had a negative impact on prime brokerage s operating results in fiscal 2008.            Fixed income sales and trading revenues increased to $3,862 million in fiscal
2008 from $268 million in fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2007 results included mortgage-related writedowns of $7.8 billion, reflecting the deterioration in the value of U.S. subprime trading positions, principally super senior derivative positions in
collateralized debt obligations ( CDOs ) entered into primarily by the Company s mortgage proprietary trading group. Fiscal 2008 results reflected lower losses in mortgage loan products, higher revenues from commodities, higher
revenues
        
   52   

Table of Contents  

from foreign exchange products, partially offset by lower net revenues from the interest rate and credit businesses. Interest rate, currency and credit products revenues decreased 55% in fiscal
2008. Continued dislocation in the credit markets resulted in lower net revenues from credit products, including losses of $1,686 million related to exposure to Monolines and unfavorable positioning, partially offset by higher revenues from foreign
exchange products and strong results in interest rate products. Interest rate, currency and credit products revenues for fiscal 2008 benefited by $171 million due to the reversal of prior-period valuation adjustments related to interest rate
derivatives, partially offset by a cumulative negative adjustment of $120 million related to prior-period incorrect valuations of a London-based trader s positions (see Notes 21 and 26 to the consolidated financial statements for further
information). Results in foreign exchange products were primarily due to higher levels of customer flows and market volatility. Mortgage-related losses of approximately $1.7 billion were primarily due to a broadening decline in the residential and
commercial mortgage sector. The decline in the Company s mortgage loan product activities reflected the difficult credit market conditions in fiscal 2008. Commodity revenues increased 62%, primarily due to higher revenues from oil liquids and
electricity and natural gas products, reflecting higher market volatility and strong customer flow. As previously mentioned, fixed income sales and trading revenues also benefited in fiscal 2008 by approximately $3,524 million from the widening of
the Company s credit spreads.            In fiscal 2008, other sales
and trading losses were approximately $3,109 million compared with $1,246 million in fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 reflected net losses of $3,335 million (negative mark-to-market valuations and losses of $6,311 million, net of gains on related hedges of
$2,976 million) associated with loans and lending commitments largely related to certain  event-driven  lending to non-investment grade companies, writedowns of securities of approximately $1.2 billion in the Company s Subsidiary
Banks and mark-to-market gains of approximately $1,352 million on certain swaps previously designated as hedges of a portion of the Company s long-term debt.            In fiscal 2007, other sales and trading losses primarily reflected approximately $700 million of mark-to-market valuations
associated with loans and commitments largely related to  event-driven  lending to non-investment grade companies and the impairment charge related to securities in the Company s Subsidiary Banks.            Principal transactions net investment losses aggregating $2,478 million were
recognized in fiscal 2008 as compared with net investment gains aggregating $1,458 million in fiscal 2007. The losses in fiscal 2008 were primarily related to net realized and unrealized losses from the Company s investments in passive limited
partnership interests associated with the Company s real estate funds and investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans and other principal investments. Fiscal 2007 s results primarily related to
realized and unrealized net gains associated with certain of the Company s investments.            Other revenues increased 379% in fiscal 2008. The increase reflected revenues related to Institutional Securities  share (approximately $2,135 million) of the Company s repurchase of debt.
Fiscal 2008 also included a gain associated with the sale of a controlling interest in a previously consolidated commodities subsidiary.            Non-interest expenses decreased 12% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to lower compensation expense. Compensation and benefits expense decreased 29%, primarily
reflecting lower incentive-based compensation accruals due to a challenging market environment, partially offset by severance-related expenses of $653 million in fiscal 2008. Non-compensation expenses increased 23% in fiscal 2008. Fiscal 2008
results included a charge of approximately $694 million for the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets related to certain fixed income businesses (see Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements), and fiscal 2007 s results included a
reversal of the $360 million legal accrual related to the Company s favorable outcome from the Coleman (Parent) Holdings, Inc. ( Coleman ) litigation. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 27%, primarily due to higher depreciation
expense on property and equipment and higher costs associated with exiting certain property lease agreements. Information processing and communications expense increased 4% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to higher data processing costs and market
data. Marketing and business development expense decreased 7%, primarily due to lower levels of business activity. Other expenses increased 151%, reflecting the previously mentioned charge of approximately $694 million for the impairment of goodwill
and intangible assets and the $360 million reversal of the Coleman litigation reserve in fiscal 2007 as previously mentioned, partially offset by lower minority interest.       
  
   53   

Table of Contents  

    One Month Ended December 31, 2008 Compared with the One Month Ended December 31, 2007
            Institutional Securities recorded losses before income taxes
of $2,030 million in the one month ended December 31, 2008 compared with income before income taxes of $904 million in the one month ended December 31, 2007. Net revenues were $(1,353) million in the one month ended December 31, 2008
compared with $2,303 million in the one month ended December 31, 2007. Net revenues in the one month ended December 31, 2008 reflected sales and trading losses as compared with sales and trading revenues in the prior- year period.
Non-interest expenses decreased 52% to $677 million, primarily due to lower compensation and benefits expense, reflecting lower net revenues. Non-compensation expenses decreased 3%.            Investment banking revenues decreased 45% to $177 million in the one month ended December 31, 2008 from the prior-year
period due to lower revenues from advisory fees and underwriting transactions, reflecting lower levels of market activity. Advisory fees from merger, acquisition and restructuring transactions were $68 million, a decrease of 58% from the prior-year
period. Underwriting revenues decreased 33% from the prior-year period to $109 million.            Equity sales and trading losses were $20 million in the one month ended December 31, 2008 compared with revenues of $922 million in the one month ended December 31, 2007. Results in the one
month ended December 31, 2008 reflected lower revenues from equity cash and derivative products and prime brokerage. Equity sales and trading losses also included approximately $75 million of losses from the tightening of the Company s
credit spreads on certain long-term and short-term borrowings accounted for at fair value. Fixed income sales and trading losses were $889 million in the one month ended December 31, 2008 compared with revenues of $938 million in the one month
ended December 31, 2007. Results in the one month ended December 31, 2008 reflected losses in interest rate, credit and currency products where continued dislocation in the credit markets contributed to the losses. In addition, fixed
income sales and trading included approximately $175 million losses from the tightening of the Company s credit spreads on certain long-term and short-term borrowings that are accounted for at fair value.            Other sales and trading losses were approximately $562 million in the one month
ended December 31, 2008 compared with revenues of $63 million in the one month ended December 31, 2007. The one month ended December 31, 2008 included writedowns related to mortgage-related securities portfolios in the Company s Subsidiary
Banks, partially offset by mark-to-market gains on loans and lending commitments and related hedges.            Principal transactions net investment losses of $158 million were recognized in the one month ended December 31, 2008 compared with net investment gains of $25 million in the one month ended
December 31, 2007. The losses in the one month ended December 31, 2008 were primarily related to net realized and unrealized losses from the Company s limited partnership investments in real estate funds and investments that benefit
certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans, and other principal investments.         
   54   

Table of Contents  

    GLOBAL WEALTH MANAGEMENT GROUP              INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION          
          On May 31, 2009, MSSB was formed (see Note
3 to the consolidated financial statements for further information). The Company owns 51% of MSSB, which is consolidated. As a result, the operating results for MSSB are included in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment since
May 31, 2009. Net income applicable to non-controlling interests of $98 million in 2009 primarily represents Citi s interest in MSSB.             2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008               Investment Banking.      Global Wealth Management Group investment banking includes revenues from the distribution of equity
and fixed income securities, including initial public offerings, secondary offerings, closed-end funds and unit trusts. Investment banking revenues increased 40% in 2009 from fiscal 2008, primarily due to the consolidation of MSSB and higher equity
underwriting activity, partially offset by lower underwriting activity across fixed income and unit trust products.         
   55   

Table of Contents  

     Principal Transactions Trading.      Principal
transactions trading include revenues from customers  purchases and sales of financial instruments in which the Company acts as principal and gains and losses on the Company s inventory positions held, primarily to facilitate customer
transactions.            Principal transactions trading revenues increased
97% in 2009 from fiscal 2008, primarily due to the consolidation of the operating revenues of MSSB, and higher revenues from municipal and corporate fixed income securities, partially offset by lower revenues from government securities. The results
in 2009 also reflected net gains associated with investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation plans.              Principal Transactions Investments.      Principal transactions net investment gains were $3 million in 2009 compared
with net investment losses of $54 million in fiscal 2008. The results in 2009 primarily reflected net gains associated with investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation plans compared with losses on such plans in fiscal 2008.
             Commissions.      Commission
revenues primarily arise from agency transactions in listed and OTC equity securities and sales of mutual funds, futures, insurance products and options. Commission revenues increased 48% in 2009 compared with fiscal 2008, reflecting the operating
results of MSSB, partially offset by lower client activity.              Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.      Asset management, distribution and administration fees include revenues from individual investors electing a fee-based pricing arrangement and fees
for investment management, account services and administration. The Company also receives shareholder servicing fees and fees for services it provides in distributing certain open-ended mutual funds and other products. Mutual fund distribution fees
are based on either the average daily fund net asset balances or average daily aggregate net fund sales and are affected by changes in the overall level and mix of assets under management or supervision.            Asset management, distribution and administration fees increased 68% in 2009
compared with fiscal 2008, primarily due to consolidating the operating revenues of MSSB and fees associated with customer account balances in the bank deposit program. Beginning in June 2009, revenues in the bank deposit program are
primarily included in Asset management, distribution and administration fees prospectively. These revenues were previously reported in Interest and dividends revenues. This change is the result of agreements that were entered into in
connection with the MSSB transaction.            Balances in the bank
deposit program rose to $112.5 billion as of December 31, 2009 from $38.8 billion as of December 31, 2008, primarily due to MSSB, which include balances held at Citi s depository institutions. Deposits held by certain of the
Company s FDIC-insured depository institutions were $54 billion of the $112.5 billion deposits at December 31, 2009.            Client assets in fee-based accounts increased 175% to $379 billion as of December 31, 2009 and represented 24% of total client assets compared with 25%
as of December 31, 2008. Total client asset balances increased to $1,560 billion as of December 31, 2009 from $550 billion as of December 31, 2008, primarily due to MSSB. Client asset balances in households greater than $1
million increased to $1,090 billion as of December 31, 2009 from $354 billion as of December 31, 2008.              Other.      Other revenues primarily include customer account service fees and other miscellaneous revenues. Other revenues
decreased 74% in 2009 compared with fiscal 2008. The results in 2009 included the operating revenues of MSSB. Fiscal 2008 results included $743 million related to the sale of MSWM S.V., the Spanish onshore mass affluent wealth management business,
and Global Wealth Management Group s share ($43 million) of the Company s repurchase of debt (see  Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations Morgan Stanley Debt  herein for further discussion).              Net Interest.      Interest and dividend
revenues and interest expense are a function of the level and mix of total assets and liabilities, including customer bank deposits and margin loans and securities borrowed and securities
        
   56   

Table of Contents  

loaned transactions. Net interest revenues decreased 29% in 2009 compared with fiscal 2008. The decrease was primarily due to the change in classification of the bank deposit program noted above,
a decline in customer margin loan balances and increased funding costs.              Non-interest Expenses.      Non-interest expenses increased 51% in 2009 and included the operating costs of MSSB, the amortization of MSSB s intangible assets, and deal closing costs of $221 million and
integration costs of $280 million for MSSB. Deal closing costs included a one-time expense of $124 million primarily for replacement deferred compensation awards. The cost of these replacement awards was fully allocated to Citi within
non-controlling interests. Compensation and benefits expense increased 60% in 2009, primarily reflecting MSSB and the replacement awards noted above. Non-compensation expenses increased 32%. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 91%, primarily
due to the operating costs of MSSB and real estate abandonment charges. Information processing and communications expense increased 70% and professional services expense increased 54% in 2009, primarily due to the operating results of MSSB. Other
expenses decreased 7% in 2009, primarily due to the charge of $532 million for the ARS repurchase program in fiscal 2008 (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements), partially offset by operating costs of MSSB and a charge related to an
FDIC assessment on deposits.             Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal
2007             Investment banking revenues decreased 32% in fiscal
2008, primarily due to lower underwriting activity across equity and unit trust products, partially offset by an increase in fixed income underwriting activity. Principal transactions trading revenues increased 3% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to
higher revenues from municipal, corporate and government fixed income securities, partially offset by $108 million in writedowns on $3.8 billion of ARS repurchased from clients and previously held on the Company s consolidated statement of
financial condition and losses associated with investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation plans. Principal transactions net investment losses were $54 million in fiscal 2008 compared with net investment gains of $29 million in
fiscal 2007. The results in fiscal 2008 reflected net losses associated with investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation plans. Commission revenues decreased 2% in fiscal 2008, reflecting lower client activity.            Asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 11% in fiscal
2008. The decrease was driven by a change in the classification of sub-advisory fees due to modifications of certain customer agreements, the discontinuance of the Company s fee-based brokerage program in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 and
asset depreciation. Client assets in fee-based accounts decreased 32% to $136 billion as of November 30, 2008 and represented 25% of total client assets versus 27% at November 30, 2007. Total client asset balances decreased to $546 billion
as of November 30, 2008 from $758 billion as of November 30, 2007, primarily due to asset depreciation. Client asset balances in households greater than $1 million decreased to $349 billion as of November 30, 2008 from $522
billion at November 30, 2007.            Net interest revenues
increased 32%, primarily due to increased customer account balances in the bank deposit program. Balances in the bank deposit program rose to $36.4 billion as of November 30, 2008 from $26.2 billion at November 30, 2007. Other revenues
were $965 million in fiscal 2008 and $163 million in fiscal 2007. Fiscal 2008 included $743 million related to the sale of MSWM S.V. and Global Wealth Management Group s share ($43 million) of the Company s repurchase of debt.   
        Non-interest expenses increased 7% in fiscal 2008, primarily reflecting the
charge of $532 million for the ARS repurchase program. Compensation and benefits expense remained flat in fiscal 2008, as severance-related expenses of $41 million and investment in the business were offset by lower incentive-based compensation
accruals. Non-compensation expenses increased 25%. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 8%, primarily due to an increase in space costs and branch renovations. Professional services expense decreased 40%, primarily due to the change in the
classification of sub-advisory fees due to modifications of certain customer agreements and lower legal costs. Other expenses increased 206%, primarily resulting from the charge of $532 million related to ARS as previously mentioned and higher
litigation costs.         
   57   

Table of Contents  

    One Month Ended December 31, 2008 Compared with the One Month Ended December 31, 2007
            Global Wealth Management Group recorded income
before income taxes of $118 million in the one month ended December 31, 2008 compared with $103 million in the one month ended December 31, 2007. The one month ended December 31, 2008 included a reversal of a portion of
approximately $70 million of the accrual related to the ARS repurchase program. Net revenues were $409 million, a 24% decrease, primarily related to lower asset management, distribution and administration fees, lower commissions and lower investment
banking fees. Client assets in fee-based accounts decreased 31% to $138 billion and decreased as a percentage of total client assets to 25% from 27% at December 31, 2007. In addition, total client assets decreased to $550 billion,
down 27% from December 31, 2007, primarily due to weakened market conditions.            Total non-interest expenses were $291 million in the one month ended December 31, 2008, a 33% decrease from the prior period. Compensation and benefits expense was $247 million, a 21% decrease from
the prior-year period, primarily reflecting lower revenues. Non-compensation costs decreased 65%, primarily due to a reversal of approximately $70 million of the accrual related to the ARS repurchase program.         
   58   

Table of Contents  

    ASSET MANAGEMENT              INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION          
       
   59   

Table of Contents  

     Statistical Data.              The results presented in the statistical tables below exclude the operations of Retail Asset Management, as those results are
included in discontinued operations for all periods presented (see Note 23 to the consolidated financial statements).            Asset Management s year-end and average assets under management or supervision were as follows:         

(1)  
  Prior-period information has been reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation.     

(2)  
  The alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products such as hedge funds, funds of hedge funds and funds of private equity funds.

(3)  
  Amounts represent Asset Management s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a non-controlling interest.           
   60   

Table of Contents  

   Activity in Asset Management s assets under management or supervision during 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal
2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008 was as follows:         

(1)  
  Prior-period information has been reclassified to conform to the current period s presentation.     

(2)  
  The alternatives asset class includes a range of investment products such as hedge funds, funds of hedge funds and funds of private equity funds.

(3)  
  Amounts represent Asset Management s proportional share of assets managed by entities in which it owns a non-controlling interest.               2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008               Investment Banking.      Asset Management
generates investment banking revenues primarily from the placement of investments in real estate funds. Investment banking revenues decreased 62% in 2009 from fiscal 2008, primarily reflecting lower revenues from real estate products.              Principal Transactions Trading.      In
2009, the Company recognized losses of $68 million compared with losses of $331 million in fiscal 2008. Trading results in 2009 included mark-to-market losses related to a lending facility to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company and
losses from hedges on certain investments and long-term debt. Losses in 2009 were partially offset by net gains of $164 million related to securities issued by SIVs compared with losses of $470 million in fiscal 2008.              Principal
Transactions Investments.      Real estate and private equity investments generally are held for long-term appreciation and generally are subject to significant sales restrictions. Estimates of the fair value of the
investments involve significant judgment and may fluctuate significantly over time in light of business, market, economic and financial conditions generally or in relation to specific transactions.            Principal transactions net investment losses of $182 million were recognized in
2009 compared with losses of $1,393 million in fiscal 2008. The results in 2009 were primarily related to net investment losses associated with
        
   61   

Table of Contents  

the Company s real estate investments and losses associated with certain investments for the benefit of the Company s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. Losses in
2009 were partially offset by net investment gains associated with the Company s alternatives business.            The results for 2009 also included operating losses of certain consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company. The Company consolidated the funds during 2009 after providing them with financial
assistance and in light of the continued deterioration of equity in the funds. Earnings of these funds related to the limited partnership interests not owned by the Company are reported in Net income (loss) applicable to non-controlling
interests on the consolidated statements of income.            The
results in fiscal 2008 were primarily related to net investment losses associated with the Company s merchant banking business, including real estate and private equity investments, and losses associated with certain investments for the benefit
of the Company s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. Included in the net investment losses in fiscal 2008 were writedowns of approximately $250 million on Crescent prior to its consolidation.              Asset Management, Distribution and Administration
Fees.      Asset management, distribution and administration fees include revenues generated from the management and supervision of assets, performance-based fees relating to certain funds, and separately managed accounts
and fees relating to the distribution of certain open-ended mutual funds. Asset management fees arise from investment management services the Company provides to investment vehicles pursuant to various contractual arrangements. The Company receives
fees primarily based upon mutual fund daily average net assets or based on monthly or quarterly invested equity for other vehicles. Performance-based fees are earned on certain funds as a percentage of appreciation earned by those funds and, in
certain cases, are based upon the achievement of performance criteria. These fees are normally earned annually and are recognized on a monthly or quarterly basis.            Asset management, distribution and administration fees decreased 25% in 2009 compared with fiscal 2008. The decrease in 2009
primarily reflected lower fund management and administration fees reflecting a decrease in average assets under management.            Net flows in 2009 were associated with negative outflows across all asset classes. The Company s decline in assets under management from
December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009 included net customer outflows of $41.1 billion, primarily in the Company s money market, long-term fixed income and equity funds.              Other.      Other revenues decreased 71% in 2009 compared with fiscal 2008. The results in 2009
reflected lower revenues associated with Lansdowne Partners ( Lansdowne ), a London-based investment manager, in which the Company has a non-controlling interest, and lower revenues associated with the Company s repurchase of debt
(see  Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations Morgan Stanley Debt , herein).              Non-interest Expenses.      Non-interest expenses increased 2% in 2009 compared with fiscal 2008. The results in 2009 primarily reflected an increase in compensation and
benefits expense. Compensation and benefits expense increased 17% in 2009, primarily reflecting higher net revenues. Non-compensation expenses decreased 12% in 2009. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees decreased 44% in 2009, primarily due to lower
fee sharing expenses. Marketing and business development expense decreased 40% in 2009, primarily due to lower levels of business activity. Professional services expense decreased 20% in 2009, primarily due to lower consulting and legal fees.
            Fiscal 2008 Compared with Fiscal 2007             Investment banking revenues decreased 88% in fiscal 2008, primarily reflecting
lower revenues from real estate products.         
   62   

Table of Contents  

   In fiscal 2008, the Company recognized principal transactions trading losses of $331 million, which included
$470 million related to SIVs included in the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition, compared with losses of $129 million related to SIVs in fiscal 2007. These losses in fiscal 2008 were partially offset by net gains from
hedges on certain investments.            Principal transactions net
investment losses aggregating $1,393 million were recognized in fiscal 2008 as compared with gains of $1,760 million in fiscal 2007. The results for fiscal 2008 are discussed above in  2009 Compared with Fiscal 2008 Principal
Transactions Investments.  The results in fiscal 2007 were primarily driven by investments associated with the Company s real estate products and private equity portfolio, including employee deferred compensation plans and
co-investment plans.            Asset management, distribution and
administration fees decreased 14% in fiscal 2008. The decrease was primarily due to lower performance fees from alternative investment products, lower distribution fees, and lower fund management and administration fees, reflecting a decrease in
average assets under management. Fiscal 2008 also reflected lower shareholder servicing fees related to the modification of certain sub-transfer agent agreements, which resulted in an offsetting reduction to professional services expense.
           Other revenues increased 176% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to
Asset Management s share ($74 million) of the Company s repurchase of debt (see  Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations Morgan Stanley Debt  herein for further discussion) and higher revenues associated with
Lansdowne.            Non-interest expenses decreased 40% in fiscal 2008,
primarily reflecting a decrease in compensation and benefits expense. Compensation and benefits expense decreased 58% in fiscal 2008, primarily due to a decrease in compensation costs reflecting lower net revenues and losses associated with
principal investments for the benefit of the Company s employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans. The decrease in fiscal 2008 was partially offset by severance-related expenses. Non-compensation expenses decreased 5% in fiscal
2008. Occupancy and equipment expense increased 12%, primarily due to higher costs related to increased occupancy usage compared with fiscal 2007. Brokerage, clearing and exchange fees decreased 5%, primarily due to lower commission expenses.
Professional services expense decreased 24%, primarily due to lower sub-advisory fees and sub-transfer agent fees, partially offset by an increase in consulting and legal fees. Other expenses increased 25%, primarily due to an intangible assets
impairment charge of $25 million.             One Month Ended
December 31, 2008 Compared with the One Month Ended December 31, 2007             Asset Management recorded losses from continuing operations before income taxes of $114 million in the one month ended December 31, 2008 compared with losses before income taxes of $103 million in
the one month ended December 31, 2007. Net revenues decreased 112% from the prior-period. The decrease in the one month ended December 31, 2008 primarily reflected lower asset management, distribution and administration fees of $111
million, partially offset by lower losses related to securities issued by SIVs of $84 million, compared with $119 million in the one month ended December 31, 2007. Assets under management or supervision within Asset Management of
$290 billion were down $106 billion, or 27%, from $396 billion as of December 31, 2007, primarily reflecting decreases in equity and fixed income products resulting from market depreciation and net outflows. Non-interest expenses
decreased $75 million to $105 million primarily due to lower compensation and benefits expense. Compensation and benefits expense decreased 53%, primarily reflecting lower revenues and reduced headcount.         
   63   

Table of Contents  

      Accounting Developments.              Transfers of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities and
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities.            In June 2009,
the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued accounting guidance that changes the way entities account for securitizations and special-purpose entities ( SPEs ). The accounting guidance amends the accounting for
transfers of financial assets and will require additional disclosures about transfers of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and where entities have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred financial assets. It
eliminates the concept of a qualifying special purpose entity ( QSPE ) and changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets.            The accounting guidance also amends the accounting for consolidation and changes how a reporting entity determines when an entity that is insufficiently
capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated. The determination of whether a reporting entity is required to consolidate another entity is based on, among other things, the other entity s purpose
and design and the reporting entity s ability to direct the activities of the other entity that most significantly impact the other entity s economic performance. In February 2010, the FASB finalized a deferral of these accounting changes,
effective January 1, 2010, for certain interests in investment companies or in entities qualifying for accounting purposes as investment companies. For the entities included in the deferral, the Company will continue to analyze consolidation
under other existing authoritative guidance; these entities are not included in the impact noted below.            The adoption of this accounting guidance on January 1, 2010 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition.               Regulatory Outlook.             It is likely that the year 2010 and subsequent years will see material changes
in the way that major financial institutions are regulated both in the U.S. and worldwide. The reforms being discussed include several that contemplate comprehensive restructuring of the regulation of the financial services industry. Enactment of
such measures likely would lead to stricter regulation of financial institutions generally, and heightened prudential requirements for systemically important firms in particular. Such measures could include taxation of financial transactions,
liabilities and employee compensation as well as reforms of the OTC derivatives markets, such as mandated exchange trading and clearing, position limits, margin, capital and registration requirements. Other changes under discussion in the U.S.
legislative arena include: breaking up firms that are considered  too big to fail  or mandating certain barriers between their activities in order to allow for an orderly resolution of failing financial institutions; curtailing the ability
of firms that own FDIC-insured institutions to also engage in private equity, hedge fund and proprietary trading activities; requiring firms to maintain plans for their dissolution; requiring the financial industry to pay into a fund designed to
help unwind failing firms; providing regulators with new means of limiting activities of financial firms; regulating compensation in the financial services industry; enhancing corporate governance, especially regarding risk management; and creating
a new agency, the  Consumer Financial Protection Agency,  to protect U.S. consumers who buy financial products.            Reforms are being discussed concurrently in Washington, London, the European Union ( EU ) and other major market centers in which the Company
operates, and attempts are being made to internationally coordinate the principles behind such changes through the G-20 s expanded mandate for the Financial Stability Board and through the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision ( Basel
Committee ), the International Association of Securities Commissioners and others. Among the internationally coordinated reforms are recent measures and proposals by the Basel Committee to raise the quality of capital, increase capital
requirements for securitizations, trading book exposure and counterparty credit risk exposure, and globally introduce a leverage ratio, capital conservation measures and liquidity coverage requirements, among other measures. In both the EU and the
U.S., moreover, changes to the institutional framework for financial regulation are being discussed or are underway.            Many of the market reforms, if enacted, may materially affect the Company s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a
particular future period. In particular, if systemic regulation were
        
   64   

Table of Contents  

enacted, the Company would likely be designated as a systemically important firm, and the consequences of systemic regulation, including a potential requirement for additional higher quality
capital and liquidity and decreased leverage, could materially impact the Company s business.            A substantial number of the financial reforms currently discussed in the U.S. and globally may become law, though it is difficult to predict which will become law, how such reforms will be implemented or
the exact impact they will have on the Company s business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows for a particular future period. As most changes, if adopted, will require regulatory implementation, the full impact of these
changes will not be known until a later stage.         
   65   

Table of Contents  

      Other Matters.              Settlement with DFS.             On February 11, 2010, the Company and DFS entered into an agreement in which
each party released the other party from claims related to the sharing of proceeds from the lawsuit against Visa and MasterCard. In addition, the Company and DFS entered into an agreement to provide that payments made by DFS to the Company in
satisfaction of its obligations under the special dividend declared by DFS in June 2007, shall not exceed $775 million. Also on February 11, 2010, DFS paid the Company $775 million in complete satisfaction of its obligations to the Company under the
special dividend. The payment will be included in discontinued operations in the Company s condensed consolidated statement of income for the first quarter of 2010.       
      Sale of Bankruptcy Claims.             During 2009, the Company entered into multiple participation agreements with certain investors whereby the Company sold undivided participating interests
representing 81% (or $1,105 million) of its claims totaling $1,362 million, pursuant to International Swaps and Derivatives Association ( ISDA ) master agreements, against a derivative counterparty that filed for bankruptcy protection. The
Company received cash proceeds of $429 million and recorded a gain on sale of $319 million in 2009. The gain is reflected in the consolidated statement of income in Principal transactions trading revenues within the Institutional Securities
business segment.            As a result of the bankruptcy of the derivative
counterparty, the Company, as contractually entitled, exercised remedies as the non-defaulting party and determined the value of the claims under the ISDA master agreements in a commercially reasonable manner. The Company filed its claims with the
bankruptcy court. In connection with the sale of the undivided participating interests in a portion of the claims, the Company provided certain representations and warranties related to the allowance of the amount stated in the claims submitted to
the bankruptcy court. The bankruptcy court will be evaluating all of the claims filed against the derivative counterparty. To the extent, in the future, any portion of the stated claims is disallowed or reduced by the bankruptcy court in excess of a
certain amount, then the Company must refund a portion of the purchase price plus interest from the date of the participation agreements to the repayment date. The maximum amount that the Company could be required to refund is the total proceeds of
$429 million plus interest. The Company recorded a liability for the fair value of this possible disallowance. The fair value was determined by assessing mid-market values of the underlying transactions, where possible, prevailing bid-offer spreads
around the time of the bankruptcy filing, and applying valuation adjustments related to estimating unwind costs. The investors, however, bear full price risk associated with the allowed claims as it relates to the liquidation proceeds from the
bankruptcy estate. The Company also agreed to service the claims and, as such, recorded a liability for the fair value of the servicing obligation. The Company will continue to measure these obligations at fair value with changes in fair value
recorded in earnings. These obligations are reflected in the consolidated statement of financial condition as Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased derivatives and other contracts.             Real Estate.             The Company acts as the general partner for various real estate funds and also
invests in certain of these funds as a limited partner.         

Table of Contents  

   The Company s real estate investments as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 are shown
below. Such amounts exclude investments that benefit certain employee deferred compensation and co-investment plans:         

(1)  
  Consolidated statement of financial condition amounts represent investment assets of consolidated subsidiaries, net of non-controlling interests. The decrease from
December 31, 2008 to December 31, 2009 was primarily due to the disposition of Crescent in the fourth quarter of 2009, whereby the Company transferred its ownership interest in Crescent to Crescent s primary creditor in exchange for
full release of liability on the related loans.     

(2)  
  In 2009, the Company consolidated certain real estate funds resulting in a transfer of investment assets of $0.2 billion, which is net of non-controlling interests of
$0.6 billion, from real estate funds to consolidated interests. The results for 2009 for these newly consolidated subsidiaries, net of non-controlling interests, were not significant. The Company consolidated the funds during 2009 due to a
reassessment of its primary beneficiary position with respect to the funds, reflecting the continued deterioration of equity in the funds combined with the Company s financial assistance provided to the funds. The limited partnership interests
in the earnings of these funds are reported in Net income (loss) applicable to non-controlling interests on the consolidated statement of income.     

(3)  
  In 2009, losses on consolidated interests were $0.8 billion, of which $0.6 billion were included in discontinued operations related to Crescent. Losses on real estate
funds and real estate bridge financing were $0.9 billion and $0.2 billion, respectively, in 2009. In addition, the Company has contractual capital commitments, guarantees, lending facilities and counterparty arrangements with respect to these
investments of $1.5 billion as of December 31, 2009 (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements).               Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.               Contributions.      The Company made contributions of $321 million, $325 million, $130 million and $2 million to its
U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit pension plans in 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively. These contributions were funded with cash from operations.            The Company determines the amount of its pension contributions to its funded
plans by considering several factors, including the level of plan assets relative to plan liabilities, the types of assets in which the plans are invested, expected plan liquidity needs and expected future contribution requirements. The
Company s policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax laws (for example, in the U.S., the minimum required contribution under the Employee Retirement Income
Security Act of 1974, or  ERISA ). As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, there were no minimum required ERISA contributions for the Company s U.S. pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the
Internal Revenue Code. The contributions made to the U.S. pension plan of $278 million and $276 million were funded based on the service cost earned by the eligible employees plus a portion of the unfunded accumulated benefit
obligation on a funding basis for 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively. Liabilities for benefits payable under certain postretirement and unfunded supplementary plans are accrued by the Company and are funded when paid to the beneficiaries.
             Expense.      The Company
recognizes the compensation cost of an employee s pension benefits (including prior-service cost) over the employee s estimated service period. This process involves making certain estimates and assumptions, including the discount rate and
the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets. For fiscal 2008, as required under the alternative transition method set forth in current accounting guidance, the Company changed the measurement date to coincide with the Company s fiscal
year-end date. Net periodic pension expense was $175 million, $132 million, $143 million and $9 million, while net periodic postretirement expense was $26 million, $17 million, $14 million and $2 million for 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the
one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively.            See Notes 2
and 19 to the consolidated financial statements for more information on the Company s defined benefit pension and postretirement plans, including the adoption of accounting guidance for defined benefit pension and other postretirement plans.

Table of Contents  

      Critical Accounting Policies.             The Company s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance
with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies (see Note
2 to the consolidated financial statements), the following involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity.             Fair Value.               Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value.      A significant number of the Company s financial instruments are carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each period. The
Company makes estimates regarding valuation of assets and liabilities measured at fair value in preparing the consolidated financial statements. These assets and liabilities include but are not limited to:         

Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased;            

Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities received as collateral;            

Certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, primarily structured notes;            

Certain Deposits;            

Other secured financings; and            

Certain Long-term borrowings, primarily structured notes and certain junior subordinated debentures.               Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or
paid to transfer a liability ( i.e. , the  exit price ) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.            In determining fair value, the Company uses various valuation approaches. A hierarchy for inputs is used in measuring fair value that maximizes the use of
observable prices and inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable prices and inputs by requiring that the relevant observable inputs be used when available. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels, wherein Level 1 uses observable prices in
active markets, and Level 3 consists of valuation techniques that incorporate significant unobservable inputs and therefore require the greatest use of judgment. In periods of market disruption, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced
for many instruments. This condition could cause an instrument to be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3. In addition, a continued downturn in market conditions could lead to declines in the valuation of many instruments. For
further information on the fair value definition, Level 1, Level 2, Level 3 and related valuation techniques, see Notes 2 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements.            The Company s Level 3 assets before the impact of cash collateral and counterparty netting across the levels of the fair
value hierarchy were $43.4 billion and $83.6 billion as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, and represented approximately 14% and 29% as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, of the
assets measured at fair value (6% and 12% of total assets as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively). Level 3 liabilities before the impact of cash collateral and counterparty netting across the levels of the fair value
hierarchy were $15.4 billion and $29.8 billion as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, and represented approximately 9% and 17%, respectively, of the Company s liabilities measured at fair value.            During 2009, the Company reclassified approximately $6.8 billion of certain
Corporate and other debt from Level 3 to Level 2. The reclassifications were primarily related to certain corporate loans and bonds, state and municipal securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities ( CMBS ) and other debt. For certain
corporate loans, more liquidity re-entered the market, and external prices and/or spread inputs for these instruments became observable. For corporate bonds and CMBS, the reclassifications were primarily due to an increase in market
price quotations for these or comparable instruments, or available broker quotes, such that observable inputs

Table of Contents  

were utilized for the fair value measurement of these instruments. For certain other debt, as the unobservable inputs became insignificant in the overall valuation, the fair value of these
instruments became highly correlated with similar instruments in an observable market. For state and municipal securities, certain student loan auction rate securities ( SLARS ) were reclassified from Level 3 to Level 2 as there was
increased activity in the SLARS market and restructuring activity of the underlying trusts.            During 2009, the Company also reclassified approximately $3.3 billion of certain Corporate and other debt from Level 2 to Level 3. The reclassifications were primarily related to corporate loans and were
generally due to a reduction in market price quotations for these or comparable instruments, or a lack of available broker quotes, such that unobservable inputs had to be utilized for the fair value measurement of these instruments. The key
unobservable inputs are assumptions to establish comparability to other instruments with observable spread levels.            During 2009, the Company reclassified approximately $10.2 billion of certain Derivatives and other contracts from Level 3 to Level 2, primarily related to
single name subprime and CMBS credit default swaps as well as tranche-indexed corporate credit default swaps. Certain single name subprime and CMBS credit default swaps were reclassified primarily because the values associated with the unobservable
inputs, such as correlation, were no longer deemed significant to the fair value measurement of these derivative contracts due to market deterioration. Increased availability of transaction data, broker quotes and/or consensus pricing resulted in
the reclassifications of certain tranche-indexed corporate credit default swaps. The Company reclassified approximately $0.4 billion of certain Derivatives and other contracts from Level 2 to Level 3 as certain inputs became unobservable.
             Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a
Non-Recurring Basis.        Certain of the Company s assets were measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. The Company incurs impairment charges for any writedowns of these assets to fair value. A downturn
in market conditions could result in impairment charges in future periods.            For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis, fair value is determined by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy as described above, which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes
the use of unobservable inputs by generally requiring that the observable inputs be used when available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.            For further information on financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring and non-recurring basis, see Note 4 to the
consolidated financial statements.             Fair Value Control
Processes .    The Company employs control processes to validate the fair value of its financial instruments, including those derived from pricing models. These control processes are designed to assure that the values used for
financial reporting are based on observable inputs wherever possible. In the event that observable inputs are not available, the control processes are designed to assure that the valuation approach utilized is appropriate and consistently applied
and that the assumptions are reasonable. These control processes include reviews of the pricing model s theoretical soundness and appropriateness by Company personnel with relevant expertise who are independent from the trading desks.
Additionally, groups independent from the trading divisions within the Financial Control, Market Risk and Credit Risk Management Department ( Credit Risk Management ) participate in the review and validation of the fair values
generated from pricing models, as appropriate. Where a pricing model is used to determine fair value, recently executed comparable transactions and other observable market data are considered for purposes of validating assumptions underlying the
model.            Consistent with market practice, the Company has
individually negotiated agreements with certain counterparties to exchange collateral ( margining ) based on the level of fair values of the derivative contracts they have executed. Through this margining process, one party or each party
to a derivative contract provides the other party with information about the fair value of the derivative contract to calculate the amount of collateral required. This sharing of fair value information provides additional support of the
Company s recorded fair value

Table of Contents  

for the relevant OTC derivative products. For certain OTC derivative products, the Company, along with other market participants, contributes derivative pricing information to aggregation
services that synthesize the data and make it accessible to subscribers. This information is then used to evaluate the fair value of these OTC derivative products. For more information regarding the Company s risk management practices, see
 Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management  in Part II, Item 7A, herein.             Goodwill and Intangible Assets.              Goodwill.     The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and on an interim basis when certain events or
circumstances exist. The Company tests for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is generally one level below its business segments. Goodwill no longer retains its association with a particular acquisition once it has been assigned to a
reporting unit. As such, all of the activities of a reporting unit, whether acquired or organically grown, are available to support the value of the goodwill. Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value of a reporting
unit with its respective book value. If the estimated fair value exceeds the book value, goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be impaired. If the estimated fair value is below book value, however, further analysis is required to
determine the amount of the impairment. The estimated fair values of the reporting units are derived based on valuation techniques the Company believes market participants would use for each of the reporting units. The estimated fair values are
generally determined utilizing methodologies that incorporate price-to-book, price-to-earnings and assets under management multiples of certain comparable companies.            The Company completed its annual goodwill impairment testing as of June 1, 2009 and 2008, which did not result in any
goodwill impairment. During the quarter ended September 30, 2009, the Company changed the date of its annual goodwill impairment testing to July 1 as a result of the Company s change in its fiscal year-end from November 30 to
December 31 of each year. The change to the annual goodwill impairment testing date was to move the impairment testing outside of the Company s normal second quarter-end reporting process to a date in the third quarter, consistent with the
testing date prior to the change in the fiscal year-end. The Company believes that the resulting change in accounting principle related to the annual testing date will not delay, accelerate or avoid an impairment charge. Goodwill impairment tests
performed as of July 1, 2009 concluded that no impairment charges were required as of that date. The Company determined that the change in accounting principle related to the annual testing date is preferable under the circumstances and did not
result in adjustments to the Company s consolidated financial statements when applied retrospectively.             Intangible Assets .    Amortizable intangible assets are amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment on an interim basis when certain events or
circumstances exist. For amortizable intangible assets, an impairment exists when the carrying amount of the intangible asset exceeds its fair value. An impairment loss will be recognized only if the carrying amount of the intangible asset is not
recoverable and exceeds its fair value. The carrying amount of the intangible asset is not recoverable if it exceeds the sum of the expected undiscounted cash flows.            Indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized but are reviewed annually (or more frequently when certain events or
circumstances exist) for impairment. For indefinite-lived intangible assets, an impairment exists when the carrying amount exceeds its fair value.            See Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements for intangible asset impairments recorded during 2009.            For both goodwill and intangible assets, to the extent an impairment loss is
recognized, the loss establishes the new cost basis of the asset. Subsequent reversal of impairment losses is not permitted. For amortizable intangible assets, the new cost basis is amortized over the remaining useful life of that asset.   
        See Note 7 to the consolidated financial statements for further information
on goodwill and intangible assets. In addition, see Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for information on the goodwill and intangible assets acquired on May 31, 2009 in connection with the consummation of the MSSB transaction and
the goodwill and intangible assets acquired on July 31, 2009 in connection with the contribution of the managed futures business.         

Table of Contents  

    Legal, Regulatory and Tax Contingencies.             In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to
time, as a defendant in various legal actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal
actions include claims for substantial compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or in financial
distress.            The Company is also involved, from time to time, in
other reviews, investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may
result in adverse judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.            Reserves for litigation and regulatory proceedings are generally determined on a case-by-case basis and represent an estimate of probable losses after considering, among other factors, the progress of
each case, prior experience and the experience of others in similar cases, and the opinions and views of internal and external legal counsel. Given the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where
claimants seek substantial or indeterminate damages or where investigations and proceedings are in the early stages, the Company cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters, how such matters will be
resolved, when they will ultimately be resolved or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might be.            The Company is subject to the income and indirect tax laws of the U.S., its states and municipalities and those of the foreign jurisdictions in which the
Company has significant business operations. These tax laws are complex and subject to different interpretations by the taxpayer and the relevant governmental taxing authorities. The Company must make judgments and interpretations about the
application of these inherently complex tax laws when determining the provision for income taxes and the expense for indirect taxes and must also make estimates about when in the future certain items affect taxable income in the various tax
jurisdictions. Disputes over interpretations of the tax laws may be settled with the taxing authority upon examination or audit. The Company regularly assesses the likelihood of assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from current
and subsequent years  examinations, and tax reserves are established as appropriate.            The Company establishes reserves for potential losses that may arise out of litigation and regulatory proceedings to the extent that such losses are probable and can be estimated in accordance with the
requirements for accounting for contingencies. The Company establishes reserves for potential losses that may arise out of tax audits in accordance with accounting for income taxes. Once established, reserves are adjusted when there is more
information available or when an event occurs requiring a change. Significant judgment is required in making these estimates, and the actual cost of a legal claim, tax assessment or regulatory fine/penalty may ultimately be materially different from
the recorded reserves, if any.            See Notes 11 and 20 to the
consolidated financial statements for additional information on legal proceedings and tax examinations.             Special Purpose Entities and Variable Interest Entities.             The Company s involvement with SPEs consists primarily of the following:         

Transferring financial assets into SPEs;            

Acting as an underwriter of beneficial interests issued by securitization vehicles;            

Holding one or more classes of securities issued by, or making loans to or investments in, SPEs that hold debt, equity, real estate or other assets;

Table of Contents  

Purchasing and selling (in both a market-making and a proprietary-trading capacity) securities issued by SPEs/variable interest entities
( VIE ), whether such vehicles are sponsored by the Company or not;            

Entering into derivative transactions with SPEs (whether or not sponsored by the Company);            

Providing warehouse financing to collateralized debt obligations and collateralized loan obligations;            

Entering into derivative agreements with non-SPEs whose value is derived from securities issued by SPEs;            

Servicing assets held by SPEs or holding servicing rights related to assets held by SPEs that are serviced by others under subservicing arrangements;

Serving as an asset manager to various investment funds that may invest in securities that are backed, in whole or in part, by SPEs; and

Structuring and/or investing in other structured transactions designed to provide enhanced, tax-efficient yields to the Company or its clients.
              The Company engages in securitization
activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial instruments. The Company s involvement with SPEs is
discussed further in Note 6 to the consolidated financial statements.            In most cases, these SPEs are deemed for accounting purposes to be VIEs. Unless a VIE was determined to be a QSPE (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements) under the accounting guidance effective prior to January 1, 2010,
the Company was required to perform an analysis of each VIE at the date upon which the Company became involved with it to determine whether the Company was the primary beneficiary of the VIE, in which case the Company had to consolidate the VIE.
QSPEs were not consolidated under the accounting guidance effective prior to January 1, 2010. QSPEs are eliminated under the accounting guidance effective January 1, 2010.       
     In addition, the Company serves as an investment advisor to unconsolidated money market and other funds.            Under the accounting guidance effective prior to January 1, 2010, the Company
was required to reassess whether it was the primary beneficiary of a VIE only upon the occurrence of certain reconsideration events. Under accounting guidance adopted on January 1, 2010, the Company is required to reassess whether it is the primary
beneficiary on an ongoing basis and not only upon the occurrence of certain events.            If the Company s initial assessment resulted in a determination that it was not the primary beneficiary of a VIE, then under the accounting guidance effective prior to January 1, 2010, the Company
reassessed this determination upon the occurrence of:         

Changes to the VIE s governing documents or contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocated the obligation to absorb the expected losses or
the right to receive the expected residual returns of the VIE between the primary beneficiary at that time and the other variable interest holders, including the Company.            

Acquisition by the Company of additional variable interests in the VIE.               If the Company s initial assessment resulted in a determination that it was the primary beneficiary, then under the
accounting guidance effective prior to January 1, 2010, the Company reassessed this determination upon the occurrence of:         

Changes to the VIE s governing documents or contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocated the obligation to absorb the expected losses or
the right to receive the expected residual returns of the VIE between the primary beneficiary at that time and the other variable interest holders.            

Table of Contents  

A sale or disposition by the Company of all or part of its variable interests in the VIE to parties unrelated to the Company.

The issuance of new variable interests by the VIE to parties unrelated to the Company.               The determination of whether an SPE met the accounting requirements of a QSPE
required significant judgment, particularly in evaluating whether the permitted activities of the SPE were significantly limited and in determining whether derivatives held by the SPE were passive and nonexcessive. In addition, the analysis involved
in determining whether an entity is a VIE, and in determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE, requires significant judgment (see Notes 1 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements).            See  Accounting Developments Transfers of Financial Assets and Extinguishment of Liabilities and Consolidations of
Variable Interest Entities  herein for information on accounting guidance adopted on January 1, 2010 for transfers of financial assets.         

Table of Contents  

      Liquidity and Capital Resources.             The Company s senior management establishes the liquidity and capital
policies of the Company. Through various risk and control committees, the Company s senior management reviews business performance relative to these policies, monitors the availability of alternative sources of financing, and oversees the
liquidity and interest rate and currency sensitivity of the Company s asset and liability position. The Company s Treasury Department, Firm Risk Committee ( FRC ), Asset and Liability Management Committee ( ALCO ) and
other control groups assist in evaluating, monitoring and controlling the impact that the Company s business activities have on its consolidated statements of financial condition, liquidity and capital structure.             The Balance Sheet.             The Company actively monitors and evaluates the composition and size of its
balance sheet. A substantial portion of the Company s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from Institutional Securities sales and trading activities. The liquid nature of these
assets provides the Company with flexibility in managing the size of its balance sheet. The Company s total assets increased to $771,462 million at December 31, 2009 from $676,764 million at December 31, 2008.            Cash used for operating activities primarily related to financial instruments
owned U.S. government and agency securities, securities borrowed, Federal funds sold and securities purchased under agreements to resell. Cash provided by operating activities primarily related to securities loaned, securities sold under
agreements to repurchase and financial instruments owned derivative and other contracts.            Within the sales and trading related assets and liabilities are transactions attributable to securities financing activities. As of December 31, 2009, securities financing assets and liabilities were
$376 billion and $316 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, securities financing assets and liabilities were $269 billion and $236 billion, respectively. Securities financing transactions include repurchase and resale agreements,
securities borrowed and loaned transactions, securities received as collateral and obligation to return securities received, customer receivables/payables and related segregated customer cash.            Securities financing assets and liabilities also include matched book
transactions with minimal market, credit and/or liquidity risk. Matched book transactions accommodate customers, as well as obtain securities for the settlement and financing of inventory positions. The customer receivable portion of the securities
financing transactions includes customer margin loans, collateralized by customer owned securities, and customer cash, which is segregated according to regulatory requirements. The customer payable portion of the securities financing transactions
primarily includes customer payables to the Company s prime brokerage clients. The Company s risk exposure on these transactions is mitigated by collateral maintenance policies that limit the Company s credit exposure to customers.
Included within securities financing assets was $14 billion and $5 billion as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, recorded in accordance with accounting guidance for the transfer of financial assets that represented
equal and offsetting assets and liabilities for fully collateralized non-cash loan transactions.            The Company uses the Tier 1 leverage ratio, risk based capital ratios (see  Regulatory Requirements  herein), Tier 1 common ratio and the balance sheet leverage ratio as indicators of capital
adequacy when viewed in the context of the Company s overall liquidity and capital policies.         

Table of Contents  

   The following table sets forth the Company s total assets and leverage ratios as of December 31,
2009 and December 31, 2008 and average balances during 2009:         
        N/A The Company began calculating its risk weighted assets under Basel I as of March 31, 2009.   

(1)  
  The Company calculates its average balances based upon weekly amounts, except where weekly balances are unavailable, the month-end balances are used.

(3)  
  Tangible common equity equals common equity less goodwill and net intangible assets as defined above. The Company views tangible common equity as a useful measure to
investors because it is a commonly utilized metric and reflects the common equity deployed in the Company s businesses.     

(4)  
  Leverage ratio equals total assets divided by tangible Morgan Stanley shareholders  equity.     

(5)  
  The Tier 1 common ratio equals Tier 1 common equity divided by RWAs. The Company defines Tier 1 common equity as Tier 1 capital less qualifying perpetual preferred
stock, qualifying trust preferred securities and qualifying restricted core capital elements, adjusted for the portion of goodwill and non-servicing assets associated with MSSB s non-controlling interests ( i.e. , Citi s share of
MSSB s goodwill and intangibles). The Company views its definition of the Tier 1 common equity as a useful measure for investors as it reflects the actual ownership structure and economics of the joint venture. This definition of Tier 1 common
equity differs from the Tier 1 common capital measure that was used by the federal bank regulatory agencies in the Supervisory Capital Assessment Program ( SCAP ) conducted during the period February through April 2009. In SCAP, Tier 1
common capital was defined as Tier 1 capital less non-common elements, including qualifying perpetual preferred stock, qualifying minority interest in subsidiaries, and qualifying trust preferred securities. Accordingly, the SCAP measure would not
be adjusted for the $4.5 billion portion of goodwill and non-servicing intangible assets associated with MSSB s non-controlling interests as though the Company had already acquired the remaining 49% interest in MSSB owned by Citi. For a
discussion of RWAs and Tier 1 capital, see  Regulatory Requirements  herein.               Balance Sheet and Funding Activity in 2009.             During 2009, the Company issued notes with a principal amount of approximately $44 billion, including non-U.S. dollar currency notes aggregating approximately $8 billion. In connection with the
note issuances, the Company generally enters into certain transactions to obtain floating interest rates based primarily on short-term London Interbank Offered Rates ( LIBOR ) trading levels. The weighted average maturity of the
Company s long-term borrowings, based upon stated maturity dates, was approximately 5.6 years as of December 31, 2009. Subsequent to December 31, 2009 and through January 31, 2010, the Company s long-term borrowings (net of
repayments) decreased by approximately $0.6 billion.         

Table of Contents  

   As of December 31, 2009, the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Company s senior
indebtedness (as defined in the Company s senior debt indentures) was approximately $179 billion (including guaranteed obligations of the indebtedness of subsidiaries) compared with $172 billion as of December 31, 2008. The increase in the
amount of senior indebtedness was primarily due to new issuances, partially offset by a decrease in commercial paper and other short-term borrowings.             Equity Capital-Related Transactions.             In June 2009, the Company repurchased the 10,000,000 shares of Series D Preferred Stock issued to the U.S. Treasury under the CPP at the liquidation
preference amount plus accrued and unpaid dividends, for an aggregate repurchase price of $10,086 million.            In August 2009, under the terms of the CPP securities purchase agreement, the Company repurchased the Warrant from the U.S. Treasury for $950 million. The Warrant was previously issued to the U.S.
Treasury for the purchase of 65,245,759 shares of the Company s common stock at an exercise price of $22.99 per share. The repayment of the Series D Preferred Stock in the amount of $10.0 billion, completed in June 2009, and the Warrant
repurchase in the amount of $950 million reduced the Company s total equity by $10,950 million in 2009.            During 2009, the Company issued common stock for approximately $6.9 billion in two registered public offerings in May and June 2009. MUFG elected to participate in both offerings, and in one of the
offerings, MUFG received $0.7 billion of common stock in exchange for 640,909 shares of the Company s Series C Preferred Stock.            See Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements for further discussion of these transactions.             Equity Capital Management Policies.             The Company s senior management views equity capital as an important
source of financial strength. The Company actively manages its consolidated equity capital position based upon, among other things, business opportunities, capital availability and rates of return together with internal capital policies, regulatory
requirements and rating agency guidelines and, therefore, in the future may expand or contract its equity capital base to address the changing needs of its businesses. The Company attempts to maintain total equity, on a consolidated basis, at least
equal to the sum of its operating subsidiaries  equity.            As
of December 31, 2009, the Company s equity capital (which includes shareholders  equity and junior subordinated debentures issued to capital trusts) was $57,282 million, a decrease of $1,783 million from December 31, 2008,
primarily due to the repayment of the Series D Preferred Stock and the Warrant repurchase, partially offset by the Company s common stock offerings.            As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $1.6 billion remaining under its current share repurchase program out of the $6 billion
authorized by the Board in December 2006. The share repurchase program is for capital management purposes and considers, among other things, business segment capital needs as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan requirements. Share
repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory approval. During 2009, the Company did not repurchase common stock as part of its capital management share repurchase program (see also  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related
Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  in Part II, Item 5).            The Board determines the declaration and payment of dividends on a quarterly basis. In January 2010, the Company announced that its Board declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.05 (see Note
27 to the consolidated financial statements). The Company also announced that its Board declared a quarterly dividend of $255.56 per share of Series A Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock (represented by depositary shares, each representing
1/1,000th interest in a share of preferred stock and each having a dividend of $0.25556); a quarterly dividend of $25.00 per share of Series B Preferred Stock and a quarterly dividend of $25.00 per share of Series C Preferred Stock.         

Table of Contents  

    Economic Capital.             The Company s economic capital framework estimates the amount of equity capital required to support the businesses over a
wide range of market environments while simultaneously satisfying regulatory, rating agency and investor requirements. The framework continued to evolve over time in response to changes in the business and regulatory environment and to incorporate
enhancements in modeling techniques.            Economic capital is assigned
to each business segment and sub-allocated to product lines. Each business segment is capitalized as if it were an independent operating entity. This process is intended to align equity capital with the risks in each business in order to allow
senior management to evaluate returns on a risk-adjusted basis (such as return on equity and shareholder value added).            Economic capital is based on regulatory capital plus additional capital for stress losses. The Company assesses stress loss capital across various dimensions
of market, credit, business and operational risks. Economic capital requirements are met by regulatory Tier 1 capital. For a further discussion of the Company s Tier 1 capital, see  Regulatory Requirements  herein. The difference
between the Company s Tier 1 capital and aggregate economic capital requirements denotes the Company s unallocated capital position.            The Company uses economic capital to allocate Tier 1 capital and common equity to its business segments. The following table presents the Company s
allocated average Tier 1 capital and average common equity for 2009 and fiscal 2008:         
          Average Tier 1 capital and common equity allocated to the Institutional Securities business segment decreased compared with fiscal 2008 driven by reductions in market and operational risk exposures. In addition, common equity allocated to
the Institutional Securities business segment further decreased due to tightening of the Company s own credit spreads. Average Tier 1 capital and common equity allocated to the Global Wealth Management Group business segment increased from
fiscal 2008 driven by higher operational risk associated with the addition of Smith Barney s business activities in connection with the MSSB transaction. Average common equity increases were also driven by the MSSB-related goodwill and
intangibles. Average Tier 1 capital and common equity allocated to Asset Management decreased from fiscal 2008, primarily due to sales of the segment s investments.       
     The Company generally uses available unallocated capital for prospective regulatory requirements, organic growth, acquisitions and other
capital needs while maintaining adequate capital ratios. For a discussion of risk-based capital ratios, see  Regulatory Requirements  herein.             Liquidity and Funding Management Policies.             The primary goal of the Company s liquidity management and funding activities is to ensure adequate funding over a wide range of market environments.
Given the mix of the Company s business activities, funding requirements are fulfilled through a diversified range of secured and unsecured financing.         

Table of Contents  

   The Company s liquidity and funding risk management policies are designed to mitigate the potential
risk that the Company may be unable to access adequate financing to service its financial obligations without material franchise or business impact. The key objectives of the liquidity and funding risk management framework are to support the
successful execution of the Company s business strategies while ensuring sufficient liquidity through the business cycle and during periods of stressed market conditions.             Liquidity Management Policies.          
  The principal elements of the Company s liquidity management framework are the Contingency Funding Plan ( CFP ) and liquidity reserves.
Comprehensive financing guidelines (secured funding, long-term funding strategy, surplus capacity, diversification and staggered maturities) support the Company s target liquidity profile.              Contingency Funding Plan.      The CFP is the
Company s primary liquidity risk management tool. The CFP models a potential, prolonged liquidity contraction over a one-year time period and sets forth a course of action to effectively manage a liquidity event. The CFP and liquidity risk
exposures are evaluated on an ongoing basis and reported to the FRC, ALCO and other appropriate risk committees.            The Company s CFP model incorporates scenarios with a wide range of potential cash outflows during a range of liquidity stress events, including, but
not limited to, the following: (i) repayment of all unsecured debt maturing within one year and no incremental unsecured debt issuance; (ii) maturity roll-off of outstanding letters of credit with no further issuance and replacement with
cash collateral; (iii) return of unsecured securities borrowed and any cash raised against these securities; (iv) additional collateral that would be required by counterparties in the event of a multi-notch long-term credit ratings
downgrade; (v) higher haircuts on or lower availability of secured funding; (vi) client cash withdrawals; (vii) drawdowns on unfunded commitments provided to third parties; and (viii) discretionary unsecured debt buybacks.
           The CFP is produced on a parent and major subsidiary level to
capture specific cash requirements and cash availability at various legal entities. The CFP assumes that the parent company does not have access to cash that may be held at certain subsidiaries due to regulatory, legal or tax constraints.
             Liquidity Reserves.      The
Company seeks to maintain target liquidity reserves that are sized to cover daily funding needs and meet strategic liquidity targets as outlined in the CFP. These liquidity reserves are held in the form of cash deposits and pools of central bank
eligible unencumbered securities. The parent company liquidity reserve is managed globally and consists of overnight cash deposits and unencumbered U.S. and European government bonds, agencies and agency pass-throughs. The Company believes that
diversifying the form in which its liquidity reserves (cash and securities) are maintained enhances its ability to quickly and efficiently source funding in a stressed environment. The Company s funding requirements and target liquidity
reserves may vary based on changes to the level and composition of its balance sheet, timing of specific transactions, client financing activity, market conditions and seasonal factors.            On December 31, 2009, the parent liquidity reserve was $64 billion, and the total Company liquidity reserve was $163
billion. The average parent liquidity reserve was $61 billion, and the average total Company liquidity reserve was $154 billion for 2009.             Capital Covenants.             In October 2006 and April 2007, the Company executed replacement capital covenants in connection with offerings by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII and
Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII (the  Capital Securities ). Under the terms of the replacement capital covenants, the Company has agreed, for the benefit of certain specified holders of debt, to limitations on its ability to redeem or
repurchase any of the Capital Securities for specified periods of time. For a complete description of the Capital Securities and the terms of the replacement capital covenants, see the Company s Current Reports on Form 8-K dated
October 12, 2006 and April 26, 2007.         

Table of Contents  

    Funding Management Policies.             The Company s funding management policies are designed to provide for financings that are executed in a manner that
reduces the risk of disruption to the Company s operations. The Company pursues a strategy of diversification of secured and unsecured funding sources (by product, by investor and by region) and attempts to ensure that the tenor of the
Company s liabilities equals or exceeds the expected holding period of the assets being financed. Maturities of financings are designed to manage exposure to refinancing risk in any one period.            The Company funds its balance sheet on a global basis through diverse sources.
These sources may include the Company s equity capital, long-term debt, repurchase agreements, securities lending, deposits, commercial paper, letters of credit and lines of credit. The Company has active financing programs for both standard
and structured products in the U.S., European and Asian markets, targeting global investors and currencies such as the U.S. dollar, euro, British pound, Australian dollar and Japanese yen.              Secured Financing.      A substantial portion of
the Company s total assets consists of liquid marketable securities and short-term receivables arising principally from its Institutional Securities sales and trading activities. The liquid nature of these assets provides the Company with
flexibility in financing these assets with collateralized borrowings.            The Company s goal is to achieve an optimal mix of secured and unsecured funding through appropriate use of collateralized borrowings. The Institutional Securities business segment emphasizes the use of collateralized short-term
borrowings to limit the growth of short-term unsecured funding, which is generally more subject to disruption during periods of financial stress. As part of this effort, the Institutional Securities business segment continually seeks to expand its
global secured borrowing capacity.            In addition, the Company,
through several of its subsidiaries, maintains committed credit facilities to support various businesses, including the collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan, derivative contracts, warehouse lending, emerging market loan,
structured product, corporate loan, investment banking and prime brokerage businesses.            The Company also had the ability to access liquidity from the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Fed ) against collateral through a number of lending facilities. The Primary
Dealer Credit Facility ( PDCF ) and the Primary Credit Facility were available to provide daily access to funding for primary dealers and depository institutions, respectively. The Term Securities Lending Facility ( TSLF ) and
the Term Auction Facility were available to primary dealers and depository institutions, respectively, and allowed for the borrowing of longer term funding on a regular basis that was available at auction on pre-announced dates. The PDCF and TSLF
expired on February 1, 2010.              Unsecured
Financing.      The Company views long-term debt and deposits as stable sources of funding for core inventories and illiquid assets. Securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of current
assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate and deposits. The Company uses derivative products (primarily interest rate, currency and equity
swaps) to assist in asset and liability management and to hedge interest rate risk (see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements).             Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program ( TLGP ).     In October 2008, the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury invoked the
systemic risk exception of the FDIC Improvement Act of 1991, and the FDIC announced the TLGP.            Based on the Final Rule adopted on November 21, 2008, the TLGP provides a guarantee, through the earlier of maturity or June 30, 2012, of certain senior unsecured debt issued by participating
Eligible Entities (including the Company) between October 14, 2008 and June 30, 2009. Effective March 23, 2009, the FDIC adopted an Interim Rule that extends the expiration of the FDIC guarantee on debt issued by certain issuers
(including the Company) on or after April 1, 2009 to December 31, 2012. The maximum amount of FDIC-guaranteed debt a participating

Table of Contents  

Eligible Entity (including the Company) may have outstanding is 125% of the entity s senior unsecured debt that was outstanding as of September 30, 2008 that was scheduled to mature on
or before June 30, 2009. The ability of certain Eligible Entities (including the Company) to issue guaranteed debt under this program, under the Interim Rule described above, expired on October 31, 2009.            At December 31, 2009, the Company had $23.8 billion of senior unsecured
debt outstanding under the TLGP. At December 31, 2008, the Company had commercial paper and long-term debt outstanding of $6.4 billion and $9.8 billion, respectively, under the TLGP. The weighted average rate at which the Company issued commercial
paper and long-term debt, including TLGP fees, under the TLGP as of December 31, 2008 was 2.28% and 3.70%, respectively. The weighted average rate at which the Company issued long-term debt under TLGP in the first quarter of 2009, including
TLGP fees was 2.80%. The Company did not issue any commercial paper under the program in the first quarter of 2009. The Company is unable to determine the benefit to operating results, if any, of issuing debt under the TLGP as there are no
appropriate benchmarks due to the disruption in the debt capital markets at that time. There have been no issuances under the TLGP since March 31, 2009. See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on commercial
paper and long-term borrowings.              Short-Term
Borrowings.      The Company s unsecured short-term borrowings may consist of commercial paper, bank loans, bank notes and structured notes with maturities of 12 months or less at issuance.            The table below summarizes the Company s short-term unsecured borrowings:
        
           Commercial Paper Funding Facility.     During 2009, the Company had the ability to access the Commercial Paper Funding Facility ( CPFF ) which provided a liquidity backstop to U.S. issuers of commercial
paper through a special purpose vehicle that purchased three-month unsecured and asset-backed commercial paper directly from eligible issuers. The CPFF program expired on February 1, 2010. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had no
commercial paper outstanding under the CPFF program. As of December 31, 2008, the Company had $4.3 billion outstanding under the CPFF program.              Deposits.      The Company s bank subsidiaries  funding sources include bank deposit sweeps, repurchase agreements,
federal funds purchased, certificates of deposit, money market deposit accounts, commercial paper and Federal Home Loan Bank advances.            Deposits were as follows:         

(2)  
  Certain time deposit accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).           

Table of Contents  

   On November 12, 2009, the FDIC Board of Directors adopted a final rule amending the assessment
regulations to require insured depository institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly regular risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011 and 2012 (the prepayment period) on December 30, 2009, at the
same time that institutions pay their regular quarterly deposit insurance assessments for the third quarter of 2009. The prepaid assessment is recorded as a prepaid expense (asset) as of December 30, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, and each
quarter thereafter, the Company will record an expense (charge to earnings) for its regular quarterly assessment for the quarter and an offsetting credit to the prepaid assessment until the asset is exhausted.            On October 3, 2008, under the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008,
the FDIC temporarily raised the basic limit on federal deposit insurance coverage from $100,000 to $250,000 per depositor. This increased coverage lasts through December 31, 2013 and is in effect for the Company s two U.S. depository
institutions.            Additionally, under the Final Rule extending the
Transaction Account Guarantee Program, the FDIC provides unlimited deposit insurance through June 30, 2010 for certain transaction accounts at FDIC-insured participating institutions. The Company has elected for its FDIC-insured subsidiaries to
participate in the extension of the Transaction Account Guarantee Program.              Long-Term Borrowings.      The Company uses a variety of long-term debt funding sources to generate liquidity, taking into consideration the results of the CFP requirements. In addition, the issuance of
long-term debt allows the Company to reduce reliance on short-term credit sensitive instruments ( e.g. , commercial paper and other unsecured short-term borrowings). Financing transactions are generally structured to ensure staggered
maturities, thereby mitigating refinancing risk, and to maximize investor diversification through sales to global institutional and retail clients. Availability and cost of financing to the Company can vary depending on market conditions, the volume
of certain trading and lending activities, the Company s credit ratings and the overall availability of credit.            During 2009, the Company s long-term financing strategy was driven, in part, by its continued focus on improving its balance sheet strength (evaluated
through enhanced capital and liquidity positions). As a result, for 2009, a principal amount of approximately $44 billion of unsecured debt was issued, including $30 billion of publicly issued senior unsecured notes not guaranteed by the
FDIC.            The Company may from time to time engage in various
transactions in the credit markets (including, for example, debt repurchases) that it believes are in the best interests of the Company and its investors. Maturities and debt repurchases during 2009 were approximately $33 billion in aggregate.
           Long-term borrowings as of December 31, 2009 consisted of
the following (dollars in millions):         
          See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further information on long-term borrowings.             Credit Ratings.             The Company relies on external sources to finance a significant portion of its day-to-day operations. The cost and availability of financing generally are dependent on the Company s short-term and long-term credit ratings. In

Table of Contents  

addition, the Company s debt ratings can have a significant impact on certain trading revenues, particularly in those businesses where longer term counterparty performance is critical, such
as OTC derivative transactions, including credit derivatives and interest rate swaps. Factors that are important to the determination of the Company s credit ratings include the level and quality of earnings, capital adequacy, liquidity, risk
appetite and management, asset quality, business mix and perceived levels of government support.            In connection with certain OTC trading agreements and certain other agreements associated with the Institutional Securities business segment, the Company may be required to provide additional collateral
or immediately settle any outstanding liability balances with certain counterparties in the event of a credit rating downgrade. As of December 31, 2009, the amount of additional collateral or termination payments that could be called by
counterparties under the terms of such agreements in the event of a one-notch downgrade of the Company s long-term credit rating was approximately $1,405 million. A total of approximately $2,523 million in collateral or termination payments
could be called in the event of a two-notch downgrade. A total of approximately $3,417 million in collateral or termination payments could be called in the event of a three-notch downgrade.            As of January 31, 2010, the Company s and Morgan Stanley Bank,
N.A. s senior unsecured ratings were as set forth below:         

Company   
     
   Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.    

Short-Term Debt   
     
   Long-Term Debt   
     
   Rating Outlook   
     
   Short-Term Debt   
     
   Long-Term Debt   
     
   Rating Outlook    
 
    Dominion Bond Rating Service Limited   
     
  R-1 (middle)  
     
  A (high)  
     
  Negative  

Fitch Ratings   
     
  F1  
     
  A  
     
  Stable  
     
  F1  
     
  A+  
     
  Stable   
 
    Moody s Investors Service   
     
  P-1  
     
  A2  
     
  Negative  
     
  P-1  
     
  A1  
     
  Negative   
 
    Rating and Investment Information, Inc.   
     
  a-1  
     
  A+  
     
  Negative  

Standard   Poor s   
     
  A-1  
     
  A  
     
  Negative  
     
  A-1  
     
  A+  
     
  Negative              Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements with Unconsolidated Entities.             The Company enters into various arrangements with unconsolidated entities, including variable interest entities, primarily in connection with its
Institutional Securities business segment.              Institutional
Securities Activities   .     The Company utilizes SPEs primarily in connection with securitization activities. The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and residential mortgage loans,
U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, corporate bonds and loans, municipal bonds and other types of financial assets. The Company may retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization.
These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. Retained interests in
securitized financial assets were approximately $2.0 billion and $1.2 billion at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, substantially all of which were related to U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations, commercial
mortgage loan and residential mortgage loan securitization transactions. For further information about the Company s securitization activities, see Notes 2 and 6 to the consolidated financial statements.            The Company has entered into liquidity facilities with SPEs and other
counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. The Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities
(see Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements).              Guarantees.      Accounting guidance for guarantees requires the Company to disclose information about its obligations under certain guarantee arrangements. The FASB defines guarantees as contracts and
indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in

Table of Contents  

an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange rate, a security or commodity price, an index, or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset,
liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. The FASB also defines guarantees as contracts that contingently require the guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity s failure to perform under an agreement
as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others.            The
table below summarizes certain information regarding the Company s obligations under guarantee arrangements as of December 31, 2009:         

(1)  
  Carrying amounts of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting. For further information on derivative contracts,
see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.     

(2)  
  Amounts include a guarantee to investors in undivided participating interests in claims the Company made against a derivative counterparty that filed for bankruptcy
protection. To the extent, in the future, any portion of the claims is disallowed or reduced by the bankruptcy court in excess of a certain amount, then the Company must refund a portion of the purchase price plus interest. For further information,
see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.     

(3)  
  Approximately $2.0 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the  Commitments  table in primary and secondary lending commitments.
Standby letters of credit are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of financial condition.     

(4)  
  Amounts include guarantees issued by consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company of approximately $2.0 billion. These guarantees relate to obligations
of the fund s investee entities, including guarantees related to capital expenditures and principal and interest debt payments. Accrued losses under these guarantees of approximately $1.1 billion are reflected as a reduction of the
carrying value of the related fund investments, which are reflected in Financial instruments owned investments on the consolidated statement of financial condition.           

Table of Contents  

   The table below summarizes certain information regarding the Company s obligations under guarantee
arrangements as of December 31, 2008:         

(1)  
  Carrying amounts of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting. For further information on derivative contracts,
see Note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.              In the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain
subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. The activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are
included in the Company s consolidated financial statements.            See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements for information on trust preferred securities, indemnities, exchange/clearinghouse member guarantees, general partner guarantees, securitized asset guarantees and other guarantees.

Table of Contents  

    Commitments and Contractual Obligations.             The Company s commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit and
other financial guarantees obtained to satisfy collateral requirements, investment activities, corporate lending and financing arrangements, mortgage lending and margin lending as of December 31, 2009 are summarized below by period of
expiration. Since commitments associated with these instruments may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:         

(1)  
  These commitments are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of
financial condition (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).     

(2)  
  This amount includes commitments to asset-backed commercial paper conduits of $276 million as of December 31, 2009, of which $268 million have maturities of
less than one year and $8 million of which have maturities of one to three years.     

(3)  
  The Company enters into forward starting securities purchased under agreements to resell (agreements that have a trade date as of or prior to December 31, 2009 and
settle subsequent to period-end). These agreements primarily settle within three business days and as of December 31, 2009, $26.6 billion of the $30.2 billion settled within three business days.     

(4)  
  Amount includes a $200 million lending facility to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company.             For further description of these commitments, see Note 11 to the consolidated
financial statements and  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Credit Risk  in Part II, Item 7A.            In the normal course of business, the Company enters into various contractual obligations that may require future cash payments. Contractual obligations
include long-term borrowings, contractual interest payments, operating leases and purchase obligations. The Company s future cash payments associated with its obligations as of December 31, 2009 are summarized below:         

(1)  
  See Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements.           

Table of Contents  

(2)  
  Amounts represent estimated future contractual interest payments related to unsecured long-term borrowings and secured long-term financings based on applicable interest
rates as of December 31, 2009. Includes stated coupon rates, if any, on structured or index-linked notes.     

(3)  
  See Note 11 to the consolidated financial statements.     

(4)  
  Purchase obligations for goods and services include payments for, among other things, consulting, outsourcing, advertising, sponsorship, computer and telecommunications
maintenance agreements, and certain license agreements related to MSSB. Purchase obligations as of December 31, 2009 reflect the minimum contractual obligation under legally enforceable contracts with contract terms that are both fixed and
determinable. These amounts exclude obligations for goods and services that already have been incurred and are reflected on the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition.     

(5)  
  See Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements.     

(6)  
  Amounts exclude unrecognized tax benefits, as the timing and amount of future cash payments are not determinable at this time (see Note 20 to the consolidated financial
statements for further information).               Regulatory
Requirements.             In September 2008, the Company became a
financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act subject to the regulation and oversight of the Fed. The Fed establishes capital requirements for the Company, including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates the Company s
compliance with such capital requirements (see  Supervision and Regulation Financial Holding Company  in Part I, Item 1). The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision establish similar capital
requirements and standards for the Company s national banks and federal savings bank, respectively.            The Company calculates its capital ratios and RWAs in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for financial holding companies adopted by the Fed. These standards are based upon a framework
described in the  International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards,  July 1988, as amended, also referred to as Basel I. In December 2007, the U.S. banking regulators published a final Basel II Accord that requires
internationally active banking organizations, as well as certain of its U.S. bank subsidiaries, to implement Basel II standards over the next several years. The Company will be required to implement these Basel II standards as a result of becoming a
financial holding company.            As of December 31, 2009, the
Company was in compliance with Basel I capital requirements with ratios of Tier 1 capital to RWAs of 15.3% and total capital to RWAs of 16.4% (6% and 10% being well-capitalized for regulatory purposes, respectively). In addition, financial
holding companies are also subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio as defined by the Fed. The Company calculated its Tier 1 leverage ratio as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets (which reflects adjustments for disallowed goodwill,
certain intangible assets and deferred tax assets). The adjusted average total assets are derived using weekly balances for the calendar quarter. This ratio as of December 31, 2009 was 5.8%.         

Table of Contents  

   The following table reconciles the Company s total shareholders  equity to Tier 1 and Total
Capital as defined by the regulations issued by the Fed and presents the Company s consolidated capital ratios at December 31, 2009 (dollars in millions):         
          Total allowable capital is composed of Tier 1
and Tier 2 capital. Tier 1 capital consists predominately of common shareholders  equity as well as qualifying preferred stock, trust preferred securities mandatorily convertible to common equity and qualifying restricted core capital elements
(including other junior subordinated debt issued to trusts and non-controlling interests) less goodwill, non-servicing intangible assets (excluding allowable mortgage servicing rights), net deferred tax assets (recoverable in excess of one year) and
DVA. DVA represents the cumulative change in fair value of certain of the Company s borrowings (for which the fair value option was elected) that was attributable to changes in the Company s own instrument-specific credit spreads and is
included in retained earnings. For a further discussion of fair value, see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements. Tier 2 capital consists principally of qualifying subordinated debt.            As of December 31, 2009, the Company calculated its RWAs in accordance with
the regulatory capital requirements of the Fed, which is consistent with guidelines described under Basel I. RWAs reflect both on and off-balance sheet risk of the Company. The risk capital calculations will evolve over time as the Company enhances
its risk management methodology and incorporates improvements in modeling techniques while maintaining compliance with the regulatory requirements and interpretations.       
     Market RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss resulting from adverse changes in market prices and other
factors. For a further discussion of the Company s market risks and Value-at-Risk ( VaR ) model, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Risk Management  in Part II, Item 7A
herein. Market RWAs incorporate three components: systematic risk, specific risk, and incremental default risk

Table of Contents  

( IDR ). Systematic and specific risk charges are computed using either a Standardized Approach (applying a fixed percentage to the fair value of the assets) or the Company s VaR
model. Capital charges related to IDR are calculated using an IDR model that estimates the loss due to sudden default events affecting traded financial instruments at a 99.9% confidence level. The Company received permission from the Fed for the use
of its market risk models through calendar year 2009 while undergoing the Fed s review. Based on the final outcome of that review, the capital ratios may be lower or higher in 2010.            Credit RWAs reflect capital charges attributable to the risk of loss arising from a borrower or counterparty failing to meet
its financial obligations. For a further discussion of the Company s credit risks, see  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Credit Risk  in Part II, Item 7A, herein. Credit RWAs are determined using
Basel I regulatory capital guidelines for U.S. banking organizations issued by the Fed.             Effects of Inflation and Changes in Foreign Exchange Rates.             The Company s assets to a large extent are liquid in nature and, therefore, are not significantly affected by inflation, although inflation may result
in increases in the Company s expenses, which may not be readily recoverable in the price of services offered. To the extent inflation results in rising interest rates and has other adverse effects upon the securities markets and upon the value
of financial instruments, it may adversely affect the Company s financial position and profitability.            A significant portion of the Company s business is conducted in currencies other than the U.S. dollar, and changes in foreign exchange rates relative to the U.S. dollar can therefore affect the value
of non-U.S. dollar net assets, revenues and expenses. Potential exposures as a result of these fluctuations in currencies are closely monitored, and, where cost-justified, strategies are adopted that are designed to reduce the impact of these
fluctuations on the Company s financial performance. These strategies may include the financing of non-U.S. dollar assets with direct or swap-based borrowings in the same currency and the use of currency forward contracts or the spot market in
various hedging transactions related to net assets, revenues, expenses or cash flows.         

Table of Contents  

      Item 7A.    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
about Market Risk.              Risk Management.              Risk Management Policy and Control Structure.             Risk is an inherent part of the Company s business and activities. The
Company has policies and procedures in place for measuring, monitoring and managing each of the various types of significant risks involved in the activities of its Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management
business segments and support functions as well as at the holding company level. The Company s ability to properly and effectively identify, assess, monitor and manage each of the various types of risk involved in its activities is critical to
its soundness and profitability. The Company s portfolio of business activities helps reduce the impact that volatility in any particular area or related areas may have on its net revenues as a whole. The Company seeks to identify, assess,
monitor and manage, in accordance with defined policies and procedures, the following principal risks involved in the Company s business activities: market, credit, capital and liquidity, operational and compliance and legal risk. Capital and
liquidity risk is discussed in  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Liquidity and Capital Resources  in Part II, Item 7. The Company s currency exposure relating to its
net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries is discussed in Note 13 to the consolidated financial statements.            The cornerstone of the Company s risk management philosophy is the execution of risk-adjusted returns through prudent risk-taking that protects the
Company s capital base and franchise. The Company s risk management philosophy is based on the following principles: comprehensiveness, independence, accountability, defined risk tolerance and transparency. Given the importance of
effective risk management to the Company s reputation, senior management requires thorough and frequent communication and appropriate escalation of risk matters.            Risk management at the Company requires independent Company-level oversight, accountability of the Company s business
segments, constant communication, judgment, and knowledge of specialized products and markets. The Company s senior management takes an active role in the identification, assessment and management of various risks at both the Company and
business segments level. In recognition of the increasingly varied and complex nature of the global financial services business, the Company s risk management philosophy, with its attendant policies, procedures and methodologies, is
evolutionary in nature and subject to ongoing review and modification.            The nature of the Company s risks, coupled with this risk management philosophy, informs the Company s risk governance structure. The Company s risk governance structure includes the Board; the Audit Committee and the Risk
Committee of the Board; the FRC; senior management oversight, including the Chief Executive Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Legal Officer and the Chief Compliance Officer; the Internal Audit Department;
independent risk management functions (including the Market Risk Department, Credit Risk Management, the Corporate Treasury Department and the Operational Risk Department) and Company control groups (including the Human Resources Department, the
Legal and Compliance Division, the Tax Department and the Financial Control Group), and various other risk control managers, committees and groups located within and across the Company s business segments.            The Board has oversight for the Company s enterprise risk management
framework and is responsible for helping to ensure that the Company s risks are managed in a sound manner. Historically, the Board had authorized the Audit Committee, which is comprised solely of independent directors, to oversee risk
management. Effective January 1, 2010, the Board established another standing committee, the Risk Committee, which is comprised solely of non-management directors, to assist the Board in the oversight of (i) the Company s risk governance
structure, (ii) the Company s risk management and risk assessment guidelines and policies regarding market, credit and liquidity and funding risk, (iii) the Company s risk tolerance and (iv) the

Table of Contents  

performance of the Chief Risk Officer. The Audit Committee continues to review the major operational, franchise, reputational, legal and compliance risk exposures of the Company and the steps
management has taken to monitor and control such exposure. The Risk Committee, Audit Committee and Chief Risk Officer report to the full Board on a regular basis.            The Board has also authorized the FRC, a management committee appointed and chaired by the Chief Executive Officer that
includes the most senior officers of the Company, including the Chief Risk Officer, Chief Legal Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to oversee the Company s global risk management structure. The FRC s responsibilities include oversight of
the Company s risk management principles, procedures and limits, and the monitoring of capital levels and material market, credit, liquidity and funding, legal, operational, franchise and regulatory risk matters and other risks, as appropriate,
and the steps management has taken to monitor and manage such risks. The FRC reports to the full Board, the Audit Committee and the Risk Committee through the Company s Chief Risk Officer.            The Chief Risk Officer, a member of the FRC who reports to the Chief Executive
Officer, oversees compliance with Company risk limits; approves certain excessions of Company risk limits; reviews material market, credit and operational risks; and reviews results of risk management processes with the Board, the Audit Committee
and the Risk Committee, as appropriate.            The Internal Audit
Department provides independent risk and control assessment and reports to the Audit Committee and administratively to the Chief Legal Officer. The Internal Audit Department examines the Company s operational and control environment and
conducts audits designed to cover all major risk categories.            The
risk management functions and the Company control groups are independent of the Company s business units, assist senior management and the FRC in monitoring and controlling the Company s risk through a number of control processes. The
Company is committed to employing qualified personnel with appropriate expertise in each of its various administrative and business areas to implement effectively the Company s risk management and monitoring systems and processes.   
        Each business segment has a risk committee that is responsible for helping to
ensure that the business segment, as applicable, adheres to established limits for market, credit, operational and other risks; implements risk measurement, monitoring, and management policies and procedures that are consistent with the risk
framework established by the FRC; and reviews, on a periodic basis, its aggregate risk exposures, risk exception experience, and the efficacy of its risk identification, measurement, monitoring and management policies and procedures, and related
controls.            Each of the Company s business segments also has
designated operations officers, committees and groups to manage and monitor specific risks and report to the business segment risk committee. The Company control groups work with business segment control groups (including the Operations Division and
Information Technology Division) to review the risk monitoring and risk management policies and procedures relating to, among other things, the business segment s market, credit and operational risk profile, sales practices, reputation, legal
enforceability, and operational and technological risks. Participation by the senior officers of the Company and business segment control groups helps ensure that risk policies and procedures, exceptions to risk limits, new products and business
ventures, and transactions with risk elements undergo a thorough review.            The following is a discussion of the Company s risk management policies and procedures for its principal risks (other than capital and liquidity risk). The discussion focuses on the Company s securities activities (primarily its
institutional trading activities) and corporate lending and related activities. The Company believes that these activities generate a substantial portion of its principal risks. This discussion and the estimated amounts of the Company s market
risk exposure generated by the Company s statistical analyses are forward-looking statements. However, the analyses used to assess such risks are not predictions of future events, and actual results may vary significantly from such analyses due
to events in the markets in which the Company operates and certain other factors described below.         

Table of Contents  

    Market Risk.             Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, rates, indices, implied volatilities
(the price volatility of the underlying instrument imputed from option prices), correlations or other market factors, such as market liquidity, will result in losses for a position or portfolio. Generally, the Company incurs market risk as a result
of trading and client facilitation activities, principally within the Institutional Securities business where the substantial majority of the Company s VaR for market risk exposures is generated. In addition, the Company incurs trading-related
market risk within the Global Wealth Management Group. Asset Management incurs non-trading market risk primarily from capital investments in real estate funds and investments in private equity vehicles.            Sound market risk management is an integral part of the Company s culture.
The various business units and trading desks are responsible for ensuring that market risk exposures are well-managed and prudent. The control groups help ensure that these risks are measured and closely monitored and are made transparent to senior
management. The Market Risk Department is responsible for ensuring transparency of material market risks, monitoring compliance with established limits, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. To execute these
responsibilities, the Market Risk Department monitors the Company s risk against limits on aggregate risk exposures, performs a variety of risk analyses, routinely reports risk summaries, and maintains the Company s VaR system. Limits are
designed to control price and market liquidity risk. Market risk is monitored through various measures: statistically (using VaR and related analytical measures); by measures of position sensitivity; and through routine stress testing and scenario
analyses conducted by the Market Risk Department in collaboration with the business units. The material risks identified by these processes are summarized in reports produced by the Market Risk Department that are circulated to and discussed with
senior management, the Risk Committee and the Board.              Risk
and Capital Management Initiatives.              During 2009, the
Company continued to enhance its market risk management framework to address the severe stresses observed in global markets during the recent economic downturn (see  Executive Summary Global Market and Economic Conditions in Fiscal
2009  Part II, Item 7, herein). The Company expanded and improved its risk measurement processes, including stress tests and scenario analysis, and refined its market risk limit framework. In conjunction with these risk measurement
enhancements, a proprietary methodology called Stress VaR ( S-VaR ) was developed to comprehensively measure the Company s market and credit risks. S-VaR simulates many stress scenarios based on more than 25 years of historical data
and attempts to capture the different liquidities of various types of general and specific risks, as well as event and default risks particularly relevant for credit portfolios. S-VaR, while still evolving, is becoming an important metric for the
Company s risk appetite assessment and its capital allocation framework.              Sales and Trading and Related Activities.                Primary Market Risk Exposures and Market Risk Management.      During 2009, the Company had exposures to a wide range of interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange
rates and commodity prices and the associated implied volatilities and spreads related to the global markets in which it conducts its trading activities.            The Company is exposed to interest rate and credit spread risk as a result of its market-making activities and other trading in
interest rate sensitive financial instruments ( e.g.,  risk arising from changes in the level or implied volatility of interest rates, the timing of mortgage prepayments, the shape of the yield curve and credit spreads). The activities from
which those exposures arise and the markets in which the Company is active include, but are not limited to, the following: emerging market corporate and government debt, non-investment grade and distressed corporate debt, investment grade corporate
debt and asset-backed debt (including mortgage-related securities).            The Company is exposed to equity price and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in equity securities and derivatives and maintaining other positions (including positions in non-public entities). Positions in

Table of Contents  

non-public entities may include, but are not limited to, exposures to private equity, venture capital, private partnerships, real estate funds and other funds. Such positions are less liquid,
have longer investment horizons and are more difficult to hedge than listed equities.            The Company is exposed to foreign exchange rate and implied volatility risk as a result of making markets in foreign currencies and foreign currency derivatives, from maintaining foreign exchange
positions and from holding non-U.S. dollar-denominated financial instruments. The Company is exposed to commodity price and implied volatility risk as a result of market-making activities and maintaining positions in physical commodities (such as
crude and refined oil products, natural gas, electricity, and precious and base metals) and related derivatives. Commodity exposures are subject to periods of high price volatility as a result of changes in supply and demand. These changes can be
caused by weather conditions; physical production, transportation and storage issues; or geopolitical and other events that affect the available supply and level of demand for these commodities.            The Company manages its trading positions by employing a variety of risk
mitigation strategies. These strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. Hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a variety of derivative
products ( e.g. , futures, forwards, swaps and options). Hedging activities may not always provide effective mitigation against trading losses due to differences in the terms, specific characteristics or other basis risks that may exist between
the hedge instrument and the risk exposure that is being hedged. The Company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a Company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual product basis. The
Company manages and monitors its market risk exposures in such a way as to maintain a portfolio that the Company believes is well-diversified in the aggregate with respect to market risk factors and that reflects the Company s aggregate risk
tolerance as established by the Company s senior management.            Aggregate market risk limits have been approved for the Company and for its major trading divisions worldwide (equity and fixed income, which includes interest rate products, credit products, foreign exchange and commodities). Additional
market risk limits are assigned to trading desks and, as appropriate, products and regions. Trading division risk managers, desk risk managers, traders and the Market Risk Department monitor market risk measures against limits in accordance with
policies set by senior management.            The Market Risk Department
independently reviews the Company s trading portfolios on a regular basis from a market risk perspective utilizing VaR and other quantitative and qualitative risk measures and analyses. The Company s trading businesses and the Market Risk
Department also use, as appropriate, measures such as sensitivity to changes in interest rates, prices, implied volatilities and time decay to monitor and report market risk exposures.            Net exposure, defined as the potential loss to the Company over a period of time in the event of default of a referenced asset,
assuming zero recovery, is one key risk measure the Company employs to standardize the aggregation of market risk exposures across cash and derivative products. Stress testing, which measures the impact on the value of existing portfolios of
specified changes in market factors for certain products, is performed periodically and is reviewed by trading division risk managers, desk risk managers and the Market Risk Department.              VaR   .  The Company uses the statistical technique known as VaR as one of the tools used to measure,
monitor and review the market risk exposures of its trading portfolios. The Market Risk Department calculates and distributes daily VaR-based risk measures to various levels of management.              VaR Methodology, Assumptions and Limitations   .  The
Company estimates VaR using a model based on historical simulation for major market risk factors and Monte Carlo simulation for name-specific risk in certain equity and fixed income exposures. Historical simulation involves constructing a
distribution of hypothetical daily changes in the value of trading portfolios based on two sets of inputs: historical observation of daily

Table of Contents  

changes in key market indices or other market factors ( market risk factors  and information on the sensitivity of the portfolio values to these market risk factor changes. The
Company s VaR model uses four years of historical data to characterize potential changes in market risk factors. The Company s 95%/one-day VaR corresponds to the unrealized loss in portfolio value that, based on historically observed
market risk factor movements, would have been exceeded with a frequency of 5%, or five times in every 100 trading days, if the portfolio were held constant for one day.       
     The Company s VaR model generally takes into account linear and non-linear exposures to price risk, interest rate risk and credit spread
risk and linear exposures to implied volatility risks. Market risks that are incorporated in the VaR model include equity and commodity prices, interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates and associated implied volatilities. The VaR model
also captures certain correlation risks associated with portfolio credit derivatives, as well as certain basis risks between corporate debt and related credit derivatives. As a supplement to the use of historical simulation for major market risk
factors, the Company s VaR model uses Monte Carlo simulation to capture name-specific risk in equities and credit products ( i.e. , corporate bonds, loans and credit derivatives).            The Company s VaR models evolve over time in response to changes in the
composition of trading portfolios and to improvements in modeling techniques and systems capabilities. The Company is committed to continuous review and enhancement of VaR methodologies and assumptions in order to capture evolving risks associated
with changes in market structure and dynamics. As part of regular process improvement, additional systematic and name-specific risk factors may be added to improve the VaR model s ability to more accurately estimate risks to specific asset
classes or industry sectors.            Among their benefits, VaR models
permit estimation of a portfolio s aggregate market risk exposure, incorporating a range of varied market risks; reflect risk reduction due to portfolio diversification or hedging activities; and can cover a wide range of portfolio assets.
However, VaR risk measures should be interpreted carefully in light of the methodology s limitations, which include the following: past changes in market risk factors may not always yield accurate predictions of the distributions and
correlations of future market movements; changes in portfolio value in response to market movements (especially for complex derivative portfolios) may differ from the responses calculated by a VaR model; VaR using a one-day time horizon does not
fully capture the market risk of positions that cannot be liquidated or hedged within one day; the historical market risk factor data used for VaR estimation may provide only limited insight into losses that could be incurred under market conditions
that are unusual relative to the historical period used in estimating the VaR; and published VaR results reflect past trading positions while future risk depends on future positions. VaR is most appropriate as a risk measure for trading positions in
liquid financial markets and will understate the risk associated with severe events, such as periods of extreme illiquidity. The Company is aware of these and other limitations and, therefore, uses VaR as only one component in its risk management
oversight process. As explained above, this process also incorporates stress testing and scenario analyses and extensive risk monitoring, analysis, and control at the trading desk, division and Company levels.              VaR for 2009   .     The table below
presents the Company s Trading, Non-trading and Aggregate VaR for each of the Company s primary market risk exposures as of December 31, 2009, December 31, 2008 and November 30, 2008, incorporating substantially all
financial instruments generating market risk that are managed by the Company s trading businesses. This measure of VaR incorporates most of the Company s trading-related market risks. However, a small proportion of trading positions
generating market risk is not included in VaR, and the modeling of the risk characteristics of some positions relies upon approximations that, under certain circumstances, could produce significantly different VaR results from those produced using
more precise measures.            Aggregate VaR also incorporates certain
non-trading risks, including (a) the interest rate risk generated by funding liabilities related to institutional trading positions, (b) public company equity positions recorded as investments by the Company and (c) corporate loan
exposures that are awaiting distribution to the market.

Table of Contents  

Investments made by the Company that are not publicly traded are not reflected in the VaR results presented below. Aggregate VaR also excludes the credit spread risk generated by the
Company s funding liabilities and the interest rate risk associated with approximately $7.7 billion of certain funding liabilities primarily related to fixed and other non-trading assets as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. The
credit spread risk sensitivity of the Company s mark-to-market funding liabilities corresponded to an increase in value of approximately $11 million for each +1 basis point (or 1/100th of a percentage point) widening in the Company s
credit spread level as of both December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008.            Since the VaR statistics reported below are estimates based on historical position and market data, VaR should not be viewed as predictive of the Company s future revenues or financial performance or
of its ability to monitor and manage risk. There can be no assurance that the Company s actual losses on a particular day will not exceed the VaR amounts indicated below or that such losses will not occur more than five times in 100 trading
days. VaR does not predict the magnitude of losses which, should they occur, may be significantly greater than the VaR amount.            The table below presents the Company s 95%/one-day VaR:         

(1)  
  Diversification benefit equals the difference between Total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This benefit arises because the simulated one-day
losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each category.              The Company s Trading VaR at December 31, 2009 was $135 million compared with $117 million and $104 million at December
31, 2008 and November 30, 2008, respectively. Non-trading VaR at December 31, 2009 increased to $100 million from $68 million and $67 million at December 31, 2008 and November 30, 2008, respectively. Aggregate VaR at December 31, 2009 was $187
million compared with $144 million and $135 million at December 31, 2008 and November 30, 2008, respectively.            Average Trading VaR for 2009 increased to $119 million from $113 million for the one month ended December 31, 2008 and $98 million for fiscal 2008. Average Non-trading VaR for 2009 increased to $102
million from $73 million for the one month ended December 31, 2008 and $53 million for fiscal 2008. Average Total VaR for 2009 increased to $165 million from $143 million for the one month ended December 31, 2008 and $115 million for fiscal 2008.
           The VaR increases for 2009 were primarily driven by increased
exposure to interest rate and credit sensitive products across the trading and non-trading portfolios. The trading portfolio also experienced increases due to increased equity and foreign currency exposure. Additionally, the Company s VaR for
2009 was affected by higher market volatilities over the period, as explained below.         

Table of Contents  

           VaR Statistics under
Varying Assumptions.              VaR statistics are not readily
comparable across firms because of differences in the breadth of products included in each firm s VaR model, in the statistical assumptions made when simulating changes in market factors, and in the methods used to approximate portfolio
revaluations under the simulated market conditions. The extreme market volatilities in the latter part of 2008 had a significant impact on VaR in 2009. The impact varies depending on the factor history assumptions, the frequency with which the
factor history is updated and the confidence level. As a result, VaR statistics are more reliable and relevant when used as indicators of trends in risk taking rather than as a basis for inferring differences in risk taking across firms.   
        Table 2 presents the VaR statistics that would result if the Company were to
adopt alternative parameters for its calculations, such as the reported confidence level (95% versus 99%) for the VaR statistic or a shorter historical time series (four-year versus one-year) for market data upon which it bases its simulations. Both
the average four-year VaR and the average one-year VaR for 2009 are sensitive to the high market volatilities experienced in the fourth quarter of 2008. However, we expect the one-year VaR to decline relative to the four-year VaR in the coming
months, as the highly volatile period in the fourth quarter of 2008 will remain in the four-year VaR, but will no longer be a factor in the one-year VaR.         

(1)  
  Diversification benefit equals the difference between Total VaR and the sum of the VaRs for the four risk categories. This benefit arises because the simulated one-day
losses for each of the four primary market risk categories occur on different days; similar diversification benefits also are taken into account within each category.           

Table of Contents  

     Distribution of VaR Statistics and Net Revenues for 2009.              As shown in Table 1, the Company s average 95%/one-day Trading VaR
for 2009 was $119 million. The histogram below presents the distribution of the Company s daily 95%/one-day Trading VaR for 2009. The most frequently occurring value was between $112 million and $115 million, while for approximately 93% of
trading days during the year VaR ranged between $103 million and $139 million.         

Table of Contents  

   As shown in Table 1, the Company s average 95%/one-day Trading VaR for the one month ended
December 31, 2008 was $113 million. The histogram below presents the distribution of the Company s daily 95%/one-day Trading VaR for the one month ended December 31, 2008. The most frequently occurring value was between $115 million
and $118 million, while for approximately 70% of trading days during the month VaR ranged between $109 million and $118 million.         

One method of evaluating the reasonableness of
the Company s VaR model as a measure of the Company s potential volatility of net revenue is to compare the VaR with actual trading revenue. Assuming no intra-day trading, for a 95%/one-day VaR, the expected number of times that trading
losses should exceed VaR during the year is 13, and, in general, if trading losses were to exceed VaR more than 21 times in a year, the accuracy of the VaR model could be questioned. Accordingly, the Company evaluates the reasonableness of its VaR
model by comparing the potential declines in portfolio values generated by the model with actual trading results. For days where losses exceed the 95% or 99% VaR statistic, the Company examines the drivers of trading losses to evaluate the VaR
model s accuracy relative to realized trading results.            The
Company incurred daily trading losses in excess of the 95%/one-day Trading VaR on one day during 2009 and three days during the month ended December 31, 2008. The Company bases its VaR calculations on the long term (or unconditional)
distribution with four years of observations and therefore evaluates its risk from an historical perspective. The Company is evaluating enhancements to the VaR model to make it more responsive to more recent market conditions, while maintaining a
longer-term perspective.         

Table of Contents  

   The histograms below show the distribution of daily net trading revenue during 2009 and the one month ended
December 31, 2008, respectively, for the Company s trading businesses (including net interest and non-agency commissions but excluding certain non-trading revenues such as primary, fee-based and prime brokerage revenue credited to the
trading businesses). During 2009 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, the Company experienced net trading losses on 38 days and 14 days, respectively. The loss days observed during December 2008 were driven predominately by increased
levels of volatility realized in the market.         

Table of Contents  

Credit Risk.             Credit risk refers to the risk of loss arising when a borrower, counterparty or
issuer does not meet its financial obligations. The Company is exposed to two distinct types of credit risk in its businesses. The Company incurs  single name  credit risk exposure through the Institutional Securities business and to a
lesser extent through its lending activities in its Global Wealth Management Group. This type of risk requires credit analysis of specific counterparties, both initially and on an ongoing basis. The Company also incurs  individual
consumer  credit risk in the Global Wealth Management Group business segment lending to individual investors, including margin and non-purpose loans collateralized by securities and through single-family residential prime mortgage loans in
jumbo or home equity lines of credit ( HELOC ) form.            The Company has structured its credit risk management framework to reflect that each of its businesses generates unique credit risks, and Credit Risk Management establishes company-wide practices to evaluate, monitor and control credit risk
exposure both within and across business segments. The Credit Limits Framework is one of the primary tools used to evaluate and manage credit risk levels across the Company and is calibrated within the Company s risk tolerance. The Credit
Limits Framework includes single name limits and portfolio concentration limits by country, industry and product type. Credit Risk Management is responsible for ensuring transparency of material credit risks, ensuring compliance with established
limits, approving material extensions of credit, and escalating risk concentrations to appropriate senior management. Credit risk exposure is managed by Credit Risk Management and through various risk committees, whose membership includes Credit
Risk Management. Accordingly, Credit Risk Management also works closely with the Market Risk Department to monitor risk exposures, including margin loans, mortgage loans and credit sensitive, higher risk transactions.         

Table of Contents  

     Institutional Securities Activities.                Corporate Lending   .     In connection
with certain of its Institutional Securities business activities, the Company provides loans or lending commitments (including bridge financing) to selected clients. Such loans and lending commitments can generally be classified as either
 relationship-driven  or  event-driven.              Relationship-driven  loans and lending commitments are generally made to expand business relationships with select clients. The commitments associated with  relationship-driven  activities may not be indicative of the
Company s actual funding requirements, as the commitment may expire unused or the borrower may not fully utilize the commitment. The borrowers of  relationship-driven  lending transactions may be investment grade or non-investment
grade. The Company may hedge its exposures in connection with  relationship-driven  transactions.             Event-driven  loans and lending commitments refer to activities associated with a particular event or transaction, such as to support client merger, acquisition or recapitalization
transactions. The commitments associated with these  event-driven  activities may not be indicative of the Company s actual funding requirements since funding is contingent upon a proposed transaction being completed. In addition, the
borrower may not fully utilize the commitment or the Company s portion of the commitment may be reduced through the syndication process. The borrower s ability to draw on the commitment is also subject to certain terms and conditions,
among other factors. The borrowers of  event-driven  lending transactions may be investment grade or non-investment grade. The Company risk manages its exposures in connection with  event-driven  transactions through various
means, including syndication, distribution and/or hedging.              Securitized Products.      While new activity has been reduced from historical levels, the Company may extend short or long-term funding to clients through loans and lending commitments that are secured by
assets of the borrower and generally provide for over-collateralization, including commercial real estate, loans secured by loan pools, corporate and operating company loans, and secured lines of revolving credit. Credit risk with respect to these
loans and lending commitments arises from the failure of a borrower to perform according to the terms of the loan agreement or a decline in actual or underlying collateral value.              Derivative Contracts.      In the normal course of business, the Company enters into a variety
of derivative contracts related to financial instruments and commodities. The Company uses these instruments for trading and hedging purposes, as well as for asset and liability management. These instruments generally represent future commitments to
swap interest payment streams, exchange currencies, or purchase or sell commodities and other financial instruments on specific terms at specified future dates. Many of these products have maturities that do not extend beyond one year, although
swaps, options and equity warrants typically have longer maturities.            The Company incurs credit risk as a dealer in OTC derivatives. Credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. The Company s exposure to
credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair value of the derivative contracts reported as assets. The fair value of derivatives represents the amount at which the derivative could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between market
participants and is further described in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements. Future changes in interest rates, foreign currency exchange rates, or the fair values of the financial instruments, commodities or indices underlying these
contracts ultimately may result in cash settlements exceeding fair value amounts recognized in the consolidated statements of financial condition.              Other.      In addition to the activities noted above, there are other credit risks managed by Credit Risk Management and
various business areas within Institutional Securities. The Company incurs credit risk through margin and collateral transactions with clearing houses, clearing agencies, exchanges, banks, securities firms and other financial counterparties. Certain
risk management activities as they pertain to establishing appropriate collateral amounts for the Company s prime brokerage and securitized product businesses are primarily monitored within those respective areas in that they determine the
appropriate collateral level for each strategy or position. In addition, a collateral management group monitors collateral levels against requirements and oversees the administration of the collateral function. In addition, certain businesses with
heightened settlement risk monitor compliance with established settlement risk limits.         

Table of Contents  

     Analyzing Credit Risk.      Credit risk management takes place at the
transaction, counterparty and portfolio levels. In order to protect the Company from losses resulting from these activities, Credit Risk Management analyzes all material lending and derivative transactions and ensures that the creditworthiness of
the Company s counterparties and borrowers is reviewed regularly and that credit exposure is actively monitored and managed. Credit Risk Management assigns obligor credit ratings to the Company s counterparties and borrowers. These credit
ratings are intended to assess a counterparty s probability of default and are derived using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies. Credit ratings of  BB+  or below are considered
non-investment grade. Additionally, Credit Risk Management evaluates the relative position of the Company s particular obligation in the borrower s capital structure and relative recovery prospects, as well as collateral (if applicable)
and other structural elements of the particular transaction.              Risk Mitigation.      The Company may seek to mitigate credit risk from its lending and derivatives transactions in multiple ways. At the transaction level, the Company seeks to mitigate risk through
management of key risk elements such as size, tenor, seniority and collateral. The Company actively hedges its lending and derivatives exposure through various financial instruments that may include single name, portfolio and structured credit
derivatives. Additionally, the Company may sell, assign or sub-participate funded loans and lending commitments to other financial institutions in the primary and secondary loan market. In connection with its derivatives trading activities, the
Company generally enters into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. These agreements provide the Company with the ability to offset a counterparty s rights and obligations, request additional collateral when
necessary or liquidate the collateral in the event of counterparty default.              Credit Exposure Corporate Lending.      The following tables present information about the Company s corporate funded loans and lending commitments as of
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. The  total corporate lending exposure  column includes both lending commitments and funded loans. Fair value of corporate lending exposure represents the fair value of loans that have been
drawn by the borrower and lending commitments that were outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. Lending commitments represent legally binding obligations to provide funding to clients as of December 31, 2009 and
December 31, 2008 for both  relationship-driven  and  event-driven  lending transactions. As discussed above, these loans and lending commitments have varying terms, may be senior or subordinated, may be secured or
unsecured, are generally contingent upon representations, warranties and contractual conditions applicable to the borrower, and may be syndicated, traded or hedged by the Company.            As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of investment grade loans was $6.5 billion and
$7.4 billion, respectively, and the aggregate amount of non-investment grade loans was $9.5 billion and $9.4 billion, respectively. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the aggregate amount of lending commitments outstanding was
$47.9 billion and $43.9 billion, respectively. In connection with these corporate lending activities (which include corporate funded loans and lending commitments), the Company had hedges (which include  single name,   sector 
and  index  hedges) with a notional amount of $25.8 billion and $35.7 billion related to the total corporate lending exposure of $64.0 billion and $60.7 billion as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively.

Table of Contents  

   The tables below show the Company s credit exposure from its corporate lending positions and lending
commitments as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. Since commitments associated with these business activities may expire unused, they do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:             Corporate Lending Commitments and Funded Loans at
December 31, 2009          

(1)  
  Obligor credit ratings are determined by Credit Risk Management using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies.

(2)  
  Total corporate lending exposure represents the Company s potential loss assuming the fair value of funded loans and lending commitments were zero.

(3)  
  The Company s corporate lending exposure carried at fair value includes $15.6 billion of funded loans and $0.4 billion of lending commitments recorded in Financial
instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, respectively, in the consolidated statements of financial condition as of December 31, 2009. The Company s corporate lending exposure carried at amortized cost includes
$850 million of funded loans recorded in Receivables other loans in the consolidated statements of financial condition.     

(4)  
  Amounts represent the notional amount of unfunded lending commitments less the amount of commitments reflected in the Company s consolidated statements of
financial condition.               Corporate
Lending Commitments and Funded Loans at December 31, 2008          

(1)  
  Obligor credit ratings are determined by Credit Risk Management using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies.

(2)  
  Total corporate lending exposure represents the Company s potential loss assuming the fair value of funded loans and lending commitments were zero.

(3)  
  The Company s corporate lending exposure at fair value includes $19.9 billion of funded loans and $3.1 billion of lending commitments recorded in Financial
instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, respectively, in the consolidated statements of financial condition as of December 31, 2008.     

(4)  
  Amounts represent the notional amount of unfunded lending commitments less the amount of commitments reflected in the Company s consolidated statements of
financial condition.           

Table of Contents  

     Event-driven  Loans and Lending Commitments as of December 31, 2009 and December 31,
2008.             Included in the total corporate lending exposure
amounts in the table above as of December 31, 2009 is  event-driven  exposure of $5.6 billion composed of funded loans of $2.8 billion and lending commitments of $2.8 billion. Included in the $5.6 billion of  event-driven 
exposure as of December 31, 2009 were $3.7 billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment grade borrowers that were closed.            Included in the total corporate lending exposure amounts in the table above as of December 31, 2008 is  event-driven  exposure of $9.3 billion
composed of funded loans of $3.4 billion and lending commitments of $5.9 billion. Included in the $9.3 billion of  event-driven  exposure as of December 31, 2008 were $5.0 billion of loans and lending commitments to non-investment
grade borrowers that were closed.            Activity associated with the
corporate  event-driven  lending exposure during 2009 was as follows (dollars in millions):         
            Credit
Exposure Derivatives.      The tables below present a summary by counterparty credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the fair value of OTC derivatives in a gain position as of December 31, 2009 and
December 31, 2008. Fair value is presented in the final column net of collateral received (principally cash and U.S. government and agency securities):             OTC Derivative Products Financial Instruments Owned at December 31, 2009(1)          

(1)  
  Fair values shown represent the Company s net exposure to counterparties related to the Company s OTC derivative products. The table does not include listed
derivatives and the effect of any related hedges utilized by the Company. The table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the Company s lending activities.     

(2)  
  Obligor credit ratings are determined by Credit Risk Management using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies.

(3)  
  Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. Receivable and payable balances with
the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.           

Table of Contents  

    OTC Derivative Products Financial Instruments Owned at December 31, 2008(1)  

(1)  
  Fair values shown represent the Company s net exposure to counterparties related to the Company s OTC derivative products. The table does not include listed
derivatives and the effect of any related hedges utilized by the Company. The table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the Company s lending activities.     

(2)  
  Obligor credit ratings are determined by Credit Risk Management using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies.

(3)  
  Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. Receivable and payable balances with
the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.              The following tables summarize the fair values of the Company s OTC
derivative products recorded in Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by product category and maturity as of December 31, 2009, including on a net basis, where applicable, reflecting the fair value of
related non-cash collateral for financial instruments owned:             OTC Derivative Products Financial Instruments Owned at December 31, 2009          

(1)  
  Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. Receivable and payable
balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.

Table of Contents  

    OTC Derivative Products Financial Instruments Sold, Not Yet Purchased at
December 31, 2009(1)          

(1)  
  Since these amounts are liabilities of the Company, they do not result in credit exposures.     

(2)  
  Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. Receivable and payable
balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral paid is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.              The following tables summarize the fair values of the Company s OTC
derivative products recorded in Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased by product category and maturity as of December 31, 2008, including on a net basis, where applicable, reflecting the fair value of
related non-cash collateral for financial instruments owned:             OTC Derivative Products Financial Instruments Owned at December 31, 2008          

(1)  
  Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. Receivable and payable
balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.

Table of Contents  

    OTC Derivative Products Financial Instruments Sold, Not Yet Purchased at
December 31, 2008(1)          

(1)  
  Since these amounts are liabilities of the Company, they do not result in credit exposures.     

(2)  
  Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity and product categories. Receivable and payable
balances with the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within the maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral paid is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.              The Company s derivatives (both listed and OTC), on a net of counterparty
and cash collateral basis, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 are summarized in the table below, showing the fair value of the related assets and liabilities by product category:         
          Each category of derivative products in the above tables includes a variety of instruments, which can differ substantially in their characteristics. Instruments in each category can be denominated in U.S. dollars or in one or more non-U.S.
currencies.            The Company determines the fair values recorded in
the above tables using various pricing models. For a discussion of fair value as it affects the consolidated financial statements, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical
Accounting Policies  in Part II, Item 7, herein and Notes 1 and 4 to the consolidated financial statements.              Credit Derivatives.      A credit derivative is a contract between a seller (guarantor) and buyer (beneficiary) of protection
against the risk of a credit event occurring on a set of debt obligations issued by a specified reference entity. The beneficiary pays a periodic premium (typically quarterly) over the life of the contract and is protected for the period. If a
credit event occurs, the guarantor is required to make payment to the beneficiary based on the terms of the credit derivative contract. Credit events include bankruptcy, dissolution or insolvency of the referenced entity, failure to pay, obligation
acceleration, repudiation and payment moratorium. Debt restructurings are also considered a credit event in some cases. In certain transactions referenced to a portfolio of referenced entities or asset-backed securities, deductibles and caps may
limit the guarantor s obligations.         

Table of Contents  

   The Company trades in a variety of derivatives and may either purchase or write protection on a single name
or portfolio of referenced entities. The Company is an active market-maker in the credit derivatives markets. As a market-maker, the Company works to earn a bid-offer spread on client flow business and manage any residual credit or correlation risk
on a portfolio basis. The Company also trades and takes credit risk in credit default swap form on a proprietary basis. Further, the Company uses credit derivatives to manage its exposure to residential and commercial mortgage loans and
corporate lending exposures during the periods presented.            The
Company actively monitors its counterparty credit risk related to credit derivatives. A majority of the Company s counterparties are banks, broker-dealers, insurance, and other financial institutions and Monolines. Contracts with these
counterparties do not include ratings-based termination events but do include counterparty rating downgrades, which may result in additional collateral being required by the Company. For further information on the Company s exposure to
Monolines, see  Certain Factors Affecting Results of Operations Monoline Insurers  herein. The master agreements with these Monoline counterparties are generally unsecured, and the few ratings-based triggers (if any) generally provide
the Company the ability to terminate only upon significant downgrade. As with all derivative contracts, the Company considers counterparty credit risk in the valuation of its positions and recognizes credit valuation adjustments as appropriate.
           The following table summarizes the key characteristics of the
Company s credit derivative portfolio by counterparty as of December 31, 2009. The fair values shown are before the application of any counterparty or cash collateral netting:         

(1)  
  Amounts shown are presented before the application of any counterparty or cash collateral netting. The Company s credit default swaps are classified in both Level
2 and Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Approximately 16% of receivable fair values and 11% of payable fair values represent Level 3 amounts.     

(2)  
  As part of an industry-wide effort to reduce the total notional amount of outstanding offsetting credit derivative trades, the Company participated in novating credit
default swap contracts with external counterparties to a central clearinghouse during 2009.                Country Exposure.      As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, primarily based on the domicile of the counterparty, approximately 5% and 8%,
respectively, of the Company s credit exposure (for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising from the Company s OTC derivative contracts) was to emerging markets,
and no one emerging market country accounted for more than 1% and 2%, respectively, of the Company s credit exposure.            The Company defines emerging markets to include generally all countries where the economic, legal and political systems are transitional and in the process
of developing into more transparent and accountable systems that are consistent with advanced countries.         

Table of Contents  

   The following tables show the Company s percentage of credit exposure from its primary corporate loans
and lending commitments and OTC derivative products by country as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008:         
       
            Industry
Exposure.      The Company also monitors its credit exposure to individual industries for credit exposure arising from corporate loans and lending commitments as discussed above and current exposure arising from the
Company s OTC derivative contracts.            The following tables
show the Company s percentage of credit exposure from its primary corporate loans and lending commitments and OTC derivative products by industry as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008:         

Table of Contents  

Global Wealth Management Group Activities.
               Margin
Lending.      Customer margin accounts, the primary source of retail credit exposure, are collateralized in accordance with internal and regulatory guidelines. The Company monitors required margin levels and established
credit limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or reduce positions, when necessary. Factors considered in the review of margin loans are the amount of the loan, the intended purpose, the
degree of leverage being employed in the account, and overall evaluation of the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, appropriate liquidity of the underlying collateral or potential hedging strategies
to reduce risk. Additionally, transactions relating to concentrated or restricted positions require a review of any legal impediments to liquidation of the underlying collateral. Underlying collateral for margin loans is reviewed with respect to the
liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, there were approximately $5.3
billion and $4.3 billion, respectively, of customer margin loans outstanding.            The Company, through agreements with Citi relating to the formation of MSSB, retains certain credit risk for margin and non-purpose loans that are held at Citigroup Global Markets Inc. in its capacity as
clearing broker for certain MSSB clients. The related loans are generally subject to the same oversight as similar margin and non-purpose loans held by the Company and its subsidiaries.              Non-purpose Securities-Based Lending.      Non-purpose securities-based
lending allows clients to borrow money against the value of qualifying securities for any suitable purpose other than purchasing, trading, or carrying marketable securities or refinancing margin debt. The
Company establishes approved lines and advance rates against qualifying securities and monitors limits daily and, pursuant to such guidelines, requires customers to deposit additional collateral, or
reduce debt positions, when necessary. Factors considered in the review of non-purpose securities-based lending are amount of the loan, the degree of concentrated or restricted positions, and the overall evaluation of
the portfolio to ensure proper diversification or, in the case of concentrated positions, appropriate liquidity of the underlying collateral or potential hedging strategies. Underlying collateral for non-purpose securities-based loans is
reviewed with respect to the liquidity of the proposed collateral positions, valuation of securities, historic trading range, volatility analysis and an evaluation of industry concentrations.              Commercial Lending.      The Global Wealth
Management Group provides structured credit facilities to high net worth individuals and their small and medium-size domestic businesses, with a suite of products that includes working capital lines of credit, revolving lines of credit,
standby letters of credit, term loans and commercial real estate mortgages. Clients are required to submit a credit application and financial statements to a centralized credit processing platform, and underwriting
professionals recommend a lending structure following an analysis of the borrower, the guarantor, the collateral, cash flow, liquidity, leverage and credit history. For standard transactions, credit requests are approved via
signature of independent credit professionals, and where transactions are of size and higher complexity, approval is secured through a formal loan committee chaired by independent credit professionals. The facility is risk rated and upon credit
approval and loan closing is closely monitored through active account management and covenant compliance certificates.         

Table of Contents  

     Consumer Lending Activities.              With respect to first mortgages and second mortgages, including HELOC ( mortgage lending ), a loan evaluation process
is adopted within a framework of credit underwriting policies and collateral valuation. The Company s underwriting policy is designed to ensure that all borrowers pass an assessment of capacity and willingness to pay, which includes an
analysis of applicable industry standard credit scoring models ( e.g.,  FICO scores), debt ratios and reserves of the borrower. Loan-to-collateral value ratios are determined based on independent third-party property appraisal/valuations, and
security lien position is established through title/ownership reports. Historically all mortgages were originated to be sold or securitized. Eligible conforming loans are currently sold to the government-sponsored enterprises while most jumbo and
HELOC loans will be held for investment in the Company s portfolio.             Operational Risk.             Operational risk refers to the
risk of financial or other loss, or potential damage to a firm s reputation, resulting from inadequate or failed internal processes, people, systems or from external events ( e.g.,  external or internal fraud, legal and compliance risks,
damage to physical assets). The Company may incur operational risk across the full scope of its business activities, including revenue generating activities ( e.g.,  sales and trading) and support functions ( e.g.,  information technology
and facilities management). Legal and compliance risk is included in the scope of operational risk and is discussed below under  Legal Risk.             The goal of the Company s operational risk management framework is to establish company-wide operational risk standards related to risk measurement,
monitoring and management. Operational risk policies establish a framework to reduce the likelihood and/or impact of operational incidents as well as to mitigate legal, regulatory and reputational risks. The framework continually responds to
changing regulatory and business environment landscape. As a foundation for the Basel II Advanced Measurement Approach, an enhanced risk-based capital model has been developed for the calculation of capital related to operational risk. This model
encompasses both quantitative and qualitative elements, including internal and external operational incidents, metrics, risk and control self-assessments, and scenario analysis.            The Operational Risk Oversight Committee, a company-wide committee, is chaired by the Company s Chief Risk Officer and
assists the FRC in executing its responsibilities for oversight of operational risk, including evaluating assessments of risk exposure, reviewing the Company s significant operational risk exposures, recommending and overseeing company-wide
remediation efforts, review and evaluation of current event risk issues, and establishing company-wide operational risk program standards related to risk measurement, monitoring and management.            The Company s Operational Risk Manager oversees, monitors, measures,
analyzes and reports on operational risk across the Company. The Operational Risk Manager is independent of the business segments and is supported by the company-wide Operational Risk Department. The Operational Risk Manager is also responsible for
facilitating, designing, implementing and monitoring the company-wide operational risk program. The Operational Risk Department works with the business segments and control groups to help ensure a transparent, consistent and comprehensive framework
for managing operational risk within each area and across the Company globally.            Primary responsibility for the management of operational risk is with the business segments, the control groups and the business managers therein. The business managers, generally, maintain processes and
controls designed to identify, assess, manage, mitigate and report operational risk. As new products and business activities are developed and processes are designed and modified, operational risks are considered. Each business segment has a
designated operational risk coordinator. The operational risk coordinator regularly reviews operational risk issues and reports with senior management within each business. Each control group also has a designated operational risk coordinator, or
equivalent, and a forum for discussing operational risk matters and/or reports with senior management. Oversight of operational risk is provided by business segment and regional risk committees and the Operational Risk Oversight Committee.

Table of Contents  

   Business Continuity Management is an ongoing program of analysis and planning that helps ensure a recovery
strategy and required resources for the resumption of critical business functions following a disaster or other business interruption. Disaster recovery plans are in place for critical facilities and resources on a company-wide basis, and
redundancies are built into the systems as deemed appropriate. The key components of the Company s disaster recovery plans include: crisis management; business recovery plans; applications/data recovery; work area recovery; and other elements
addressing management, analysis, training and testing.            The
Company maintains an information security program that coordinates the management of information security risks and satisfies regulatory requirements. Information security procedures are designed to protect the Company s information assets
against unauthorized disclosure, modification or misuse. These procedures cover a broad range of areas, including: application entitlements, data protection, incident response, Internet and electronic communications, remote access and portable
devices. The Company has also established policies, procedures and technologies to protect its computers and other assets from unauthorized access.            The Company utilizes the services of external vendors in connection with the Company s ongoing operations. These may include, for example, outsourced
processing and support functions and consulting and other professional services. The Company manages its exposures to the quality of these services through a variety of means, including service level and other contractual agreements, service and
quality reviews, and ongoing monitoring of the vendors  performance. It is anticipated that the use of these services will continue and possibly increase in the future.             Legal Risk.             Legal risk includes the risk of non-compliance with applicable legal and regulatory requirements and standards. Legal risk also includes contractual and
commercial risk such as the risk that a counterparty s performance obligations will be unenforceable. The Company is generally subject to extensive regulation in the different jurisdictions in which it conducts its business (see
 Business Supervision and Regulation  in Part I, Item 1). The Company has established procedures based on legal and regulatory requirements on a worldwide basis that are designed to foster compliance with applicable statutory and
regulatory requirements. The Company, principally through the Legal and Compliance Division, also has established procedures that are designed to require that the Company s policies relating to conduct, ethics and business practices are
followed globally. In connection with its businesses, the Company has and continuously develops various procedures addressing issues such as regulatory capital requirements, sales and trading practices, new products, potential conflicts of interest,
structured transactions, use and safekeeping of customer funds and securities, credit granting, money laundering, privacy and recordkeeping. In addition, the Company has established procedures to mitigate the risk that a counterparty s
performance obligations will be unenforceable, including consideration of counterparty legal authority and capacity, adequacy of legal documentation, the permissibility of a transaction under applicable law and whether applicable bankruptcy or
insolvency laws limit or alter contractual remedies. The legal and regulatory focus on the financial services industry presents a continuing business challenge for the Company.         

Table of Contents  

Item 8.   
   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.                  REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM             To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Morgan Stanley:            We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition
of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows, and changes in total equity for the calendar year ended December 31,
2009, the one month ended December 31, 2008 and the fiscal years ended November 30, 2008 and 2007. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements based on our audits.            We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.         
  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Morgan Stanley and subsidiaries
as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the calendar year ended December 31, 2009, the one month ended December 31, 2008 and the fiscal years ended November 30, 2008 and 2007, in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.            As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed its fiscal year end from November 30 to December 31.            As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 2009, the Company adopted Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) accounting guidance that addresses noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements.            As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 2009, the Company adopted FASB accounting guidance that addresses the computation of Earnings Per Share under the two-class method for share-based payment transactions that are participating securities.            As discussed in Note 2 and Note 20 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company adopted FASB accounting guidance that addresses accounting for uncertainties in income taxes.            We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated February 26, 2010, expresses an
unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting.         

Table of Contents  

      MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition
       (dollars in millions, except share data)          
          See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         

Table of Contents  

    MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition (Continued)        (dollars in millions, except share data)          
          See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.         

Table of Contents  

      MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated Statements of Income        (dollars in millions, except share and per share data)        
  
          See Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.         

Table of Contents  

      MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income
       (dollars in millions)          

(5)  
  Amount is net of provision for income taxes of $6 million.     
 
          See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         

Table of Contents  

      MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows        (dollars in millions)    
           SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW
INFORMATION       Cash payments for interest were $7,605 million, $35,587 million, $59,955 million and $1,111 million for 2009, fiscal 2008,
fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively.      Cash payments for income taxes were $1,028 million, $1,406 million,
$3,404 million and $113 million for 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively.      See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         

Table of Contents  

      MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated Statements of Changes in Total Equity
       (dollars in millions)          
          See Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.         

Table of Contents  

    MORGAN STANLEY              Consolidated Statements of Changes in Total Equity (Continued)        (dollars in millions)          
                See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.         

Table of Contents  

      MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS              1.    Introduction and Basis of Presentation
              The Company.      Morgan
Stanley (or the  Company ), a financial holding company, is a global financial services firm that maintains significant market positions in each of its business segments Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and
Asset Management.            A summary of the activities of each of the
Company s business segments is as follows:             Institutional Securities  includes capital raising; financial advisory services, including advice on mergers and acquisitions, restructurings, real estate and project finance; corporate lending; sales, trading, financing and
market-making activities in equity and fixed income securities and related products, including foreign exchange and commodities; and investment activities.             Global Wealth Management Group , which includes the Company s 51% interest in Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC
( MSSB ) (see Note 3), provides brokerage and investment advisory services to individual investors and small-to-medium sized businesses and institutions covering various investment alternatives; financial and wealth planning services;
annuity and other insurance products; credit and other lending products; cash management services; retirement services; and trust and fiduciary services.             Asset Management  provides global asset management products and services in equity, fixed income, alternative investments, which
includes hedge funds and funds of funds, and merchant banking, which includes real estate, private equity and infrastructure, to institutional and retail clients through proprietary and third-party distribution channels. Asset Management also
engages in investment activities.              Change in Fiscal
Year-End.              On December 16, 2008, the Board of
Directors of the Company approved a change in the Company s fiscal year- end from November 30 to December 31 of each year. This change to the calendar year reporting cycle began January 1, 2009. As a result of the change, the
Company had a one-month transition period in December 2008.            Included in this report is the Company s consolidated statements of financial condition as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008; the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and changes in
total equity for the 12 months ended December 31, 2009 ( 2009 ), November 30, 2008 ( fiscal 2008 ) and November 30, 2007 ( fiscal 2007 ) and the one month ended December 31, 2008.              Discontinued Operations.               Retail Asset Management Business.     On
October 19, 2009, as part of a restructuring of its Asset Management business segment, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell substantially all of its retail asset management business ( Retail Asset Management ),
including Van Kampen Investments, Inc., ( Van Kampen ), to Invesco Ltd. ( Invesco ). This transaction allows the Company s Asset Management business segment to focus on its institutional client base, including corporations,
pension plans, large intermediaries, foundations and endowments, sovereign wealth funds and central banks, among others.            Under the terms of the definitive agreement, Invesco will purchase substantially all of Retail Asset Management, operating under both the Morgan Stanley and
Van Kampen brands, in a stock and cash transaction. The Company will receive a 9.4% minority interest in Invesco. The transaction, which has been approved by the Boards of Directors of both companies, is expected to close in mid-2010, subject
to customary regulatory, client and fund shareholder approvals. The results of Retail Asset Management are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented.       

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    MSCI Inc .    In May 2009, the Company divested all of its remaining ownership
interest in MSCI Inc. ( MSCI ). The results of MSCI are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. The results of MSCI were formerly included within the Institutional Securities business segment.             Crescent.     Discontinued operations in 2009, fiscal
2008 and the one month ended December 31, 2008 include operating results and gains (losses) related to the disposition of Crescent Real Estate Equities Limited Partnership ( Crescent ), a former real estate subsidiary of the Company. The
Company completed the disposition of Crescent in the fourth quarter of 2009, whereby the Company transferred its ownership interest in Crescent to Crescent s primary creditor in exchange for full release of liability on the related loans. The
results of Crescent were formerly included in the Asset Management business segment.             Discover.     On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the spin-off (the  Discover Spin-off ) of its business segment Discover Financial Services ( DFS )
to its shareholders. The results of DFS are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of the Discover Spin-off. Fiscal 2008 included costs related to a legal settlement between DFS, VISA and MasterCard. See Note
27 for further information regarding settlement with DFS.             Quilter Holdings Ltd.     The results of Quilter Holdings Ltd. ( Quilter ), Global Wealth Management Group s former mass affluent business in the United Kingdom ( U.K. ), are also reported
as discontinued operations for all periods presented through its sale to Citigroup Inc. ( Citi ) on February 28, 2007. Citi subsequently contributed Quilter to the MSSB joint venture. The results of MSSB are included within the Global
Wealth Management Group business segment s income from continuing operations effective May 31, 2009.            See Note 23 for additional information on discontinued operations.              Basis of Financial Information.      The consolidated financial statements for 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one
month ended December 31, 2008 are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require the Company to make estimates and assumptions regarding the valuations of certain financial instruments, the valuation
of goodwill, tax matters and other matters that affect the consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. The Company believes that the estimates utilized in the preparation of the consolidated financial statements are prudent and
reasonable. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates.            All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.              Consolidation  .    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company, its wholly owned subsidiaries and other entities in which the Company has a
controlling financial interest, including certain variable interest entities ( VIEs ). The Company adopted accounting guidance for non-controlling interests on January 1, 2009. Accordingly, for consolidated subsidiaries that are less
than wholly owned, the third-party holdings of equity interests are referred to as non-controlling interests. The portion of net income attributable to non-controlling interests for such subsidiaries is presented as Net income (loss) applicable to
non-controlling interests on the consolidated statements of income, and the portion of the shareholders  equity of such subsidiaries is presented as Non-controlling interests in the consolidated statements of financial condition and
consolidated statements of changes in total equity.            For entities
where (1) the total equity investment at risk is sufficient to enable the entity to finance its activities independently and (2) the equity holders bear the economic residual risks of the entity and have the right to make decisions about
the entity s activities, the Company consolidates those entities it controls through a majority voting interest or otherwise. For entities that do not meet these criteria, commonly known as VIEs, the Company consolidates those entities where
the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary when it absorbs a majority of the expected losses or a majority of the expected residual returns, or both, of such entities.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Notwithstanding the above, under accounting guidance prior to January 1, 2010, certain
securitization vehicles, commonly known as qualifying special purpose entities ( QSPEs ), were not consolidated by the Company if they met certain criteria regarding the types of assets and derivatives they could hold, the types of sales
they could engage in and the range of discretion they could exercise in connection with the assets they held (see Note 6).            For investments in entities in which the Company does not have a controlling financial interest but has significant influence over operating and financial
decisions, the Company generally applies the equity method of accounting with net gains and losses recorded within Other revenues. Where the Company has elected to measure certain eligible investments at fair value in accordance with the fair value
option, net gains and losses are recorded within Principal transactions investments (see Note 4).            Equity and partnership interests held by entities qualifying for accounting purposes as investment companies are carried at fair value.            The Company s significant regulated U.S. and international subsidiaries include Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated
( MS Co. ), Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC, Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc ( MSIP ), Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd. ( MSJS ), Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A. and Morgan Stanley Investment
Advisors Inc.              Income Statement
Presentation  .    The Company, through its subsidiaries and affiliates, provides a wide variety of products and services to a large and diversified group of clients and customers, including corporations, governments,
financial institutions and individuals. In connection with the delivery of the various products and services to clients, the Company manages its revenues and related expenses in the aggregate. As such, when assessing the performance of its
businesses, the Company considers its principal trading, investment banking, commissions, and interest and dividend income, along with the associated interest expense, as one integrated activity for each of the Company s separate businesses.
           The Company made an immaterial adjustment to eliminate $1,021
million of interest revenue and interest expense (approximate 2.6% average decrease in each line item) on certain intercompany transactions for fiscal 2008, which had not been eliminated in error. There was no impact on net interest, net revenue or
net income on the consolidated statement of income.             2.    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies.               Revenue Recognition.               Investment Banking.     Underwriting revenues and advisory fees from mergers, acquisitions and restructuring transactions are recorded when services for the transactions are
determined to be substantially completed, generally as set forth under the terms of the engagement. Transaction-related expenses, primarily consisting of legal, travel and other costs directly associated with the transaction, are deferred and
recognized in the same period as the related investment banking transaction revenue. Underwriting revenues are presented net of related expenses. Non-reimbursed expenses associated with advisory transactions are recorded within Non-interest
expenses.             Commissions.     The Company
generates commissions from executing and clearing customer transactions on stock, options and futures markets. Commission revenues are recognized in the accounts on trade date.             Asset Management, Distribution and Administration Fees.     Asset management, distribution and
administration fees are recognized over the relevant contract period. Sales commissions paid by the Company in connection with the sale of certain classes of shares of its open-end mutual fund products are accounted for as deferred commission
assets. The Company periodically tests the deferred commission assets for recoverability based on cash flows expected to be received in future periods. In certain management fee arrangements, the Company is entitled to receive performance-based fees
(also referred to as incentive fees) when the return on assets under management exceeds certain benchmark returns or other performance targets. In such arrangements, performance

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
fee revenue is accrued (or reversed) quarterly based on measuring account/fund performance to date versus the performance benchmark stated in the investment management agreement.
Performance-based fees are recorded within Principal transactions investment revenues or Asset management, distribution and administration fees depending on the nature of the arrangement.             Principal Transactions.     See  Financial
Instruments and Fair Value  below for principal transactions revenue recognition discussions.              Financial Instruments and Fair Value.              A significant portion of the Company s financial instruments is carried at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings each period. A description of the Company s policies
regarding fair value measurement and its application to these financial instruments follows.             Financial Instruments Measured at Fair Value.     All of the instruments within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, are measured at
fair value, either through the fair value option election (discussed below) or as required by other accounting pronouncements. These financial instruments primarily represent the Company s trading and investment activities and include both
cash and derivative products. In addition, Securities received as collateral and Obligation to return securities received as collateral are measured at fair value as required by other accounting pronouncements. Additionally, certain Commercial paper
and other short-term borrowings (primarily structured notes), certain Deposits, Other secured financings and certain Long-term borrowings (primarily structured notes and certain junior subordinated debentures) are measured at fair value through the
fair value option election.            Gains and losses on all of these
instruments carried at fair value are reflected in Principal transactions trading revenues, Principal transactions investment revenues or Investment banking revenues in the consolidated statements of income, except for derivatives
accounted for as hedges (see  Hedge Accounting  section herein and Note 10). Interest income and expense and dividend income are recorded within the consolidated statements of income depending on the nature of the instrument and related
market conventions. When interest and dividends are included as a component of the instruments  fair value, interest and dividends are included within Principal transactions trading revenues or Principal
transactions investment revenues. Otherwise, they are included within Interest and dividend income or Interest expense. The fair value of over-the-counter ( OTC ) financial instruments, including derivative contracts related
to financial instruments and commodities, is presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition on a net-by-counterparty basis, when appropriate. Additionally, the Company nets fair value of cash collateral paid or received
against fair value amounts recognized for net derivative positions executed with the same counterparty under the same master netting arrangement.             Fair Value Option .    The fair value option permits the irrevocable fair value option election on an instrument-by-instrument
basis at initial recognition of an asset or liability or upon an event that gives rise to a new basis of accounting for that instrument. The Company applies the fair value option for eligible instruments, including certain loans and lending
commitments, certain equity method investments, certain structured notes, certain junior subordinated debentures, certain time deposits and certain other secured financings.             Fair Value Measurement Definition and Hierarchy .    Fair value is defined as the price that
would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability ( i.e. , the  exit price ) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date.            In determining fair value, the Company uses various valuation approaches and establishes a hierarchy for inputs used in
measuring fair value that maximizes the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs by requiring that the most observable inputs be used when available. Observable inputs are

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
inputs that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on market data obtained from sources independent of the Company. Unobservable inputs are inputs that
reflect the Company s assumptions about the assumptions other market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed based on the best information available in the circumstances. The hierarchy is broken down into three levels
based on the observability of inputs as follows:         

Level 1 Valuations based on quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access.
Valuation adjustments and block discounts are not applied to Level 1 instruments. Since valuations are based on quoted prices that are readily and regularly available in an active market, valuation of these products does not entail a significant
degree of judgment.            

Level 2 Valuations based on one or more quoted prices in markets that are not active or for which all significant inputs are observable, either
directly or indirectly.            

Level 3 Valuations based on inputs that are unobservable and significant to the overall fair value measurement.               The availability of observable inputs can vary from product to product and is
affected by a wide variety of factors, including, for example, the type of product, whether the product is new and not yet established in the marketplace, the liquidity of markets and other characteristics particular to the transaction. To the
extent that valuation is based on models or inputs that are less observable or unobservable in the market, the determination of fair value requires more judgment. Accordingly, the degree of judgment exercised by the Company in determining fair value
is greatest for instruments categorized in Level 3.            The Company
uses prices and inputs that are current as of the measurement date, including during periods of market dislocation. In periods of market dislocation, the observability of prices and inputs may be reduced for many instruments. This condition could
cause an instrument to be reclassified from Level 1 to Level 2 or Level 2 to Level 3 (see Note 4). In addition, a downturn in market conditions could lead to further declines in the valuation of many instruments.            In certain cases, the inputs used to measure fair value may fall into
different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, for disclosure purposes the level in the fair value hierarchy within which the fair value measurement falls in its entirety is determined based on the lowest level input
that is significant to the fair value measurement in its entirety.             Valuation Techniques .    Many cash and OTC contracts have bid and ask prices that can be observed in the marketplace. Bid prices reflect the highest price that a party is willing to pay for an asset. Ask prices
represent the lowest price that a party is willing to accept for an asset. For financial instruments whose inputs are based on bid-ask prices, the Company does not require that the fair value estimate always be a predetermined point in the bid-ask
range. The Company s policy is to allow for mid-market pricing and adjusting to the point within the bid-ask range that meets the Company s best estimate of fair value. For offsetting positions in the same financial instrument, the same
price within the bid-ask spread is used to measure both the long and short positions.            Fair value for many cash and OTC contracts is derived using pricing models. Pricing models take into account the contract terms (including maturity) as well as multiple inputs, including, where
applicable, commodity prices, equity prices, interest rate yield curves, credit curves, correlation, creditworthiness of the counterparty, option volatility and currency rates. Where appropriate, valuation adjustments are made to account for various
factors such as liquidity risk (bid-ask adjustments), credit quality and model uncertainty. Credit valuation adjustments are applied to both cash instruments and OTC derivatives. For cash instruments, the impact of changes in the Company s own
credit spreads is considered when measuring the fair value of liabilities and the impact of

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
changes in the counterparty s credit spreads is considered when measuring the fair value of assets. For OTC derivatives, the impact of changes in both the Company s and the
counterparty s credit standing is considered when measuring fair value. In determining the expected exposure, the Company considers collateral held and legally enforceable master netting agreements that mitigate the Company s exposure to
each counterparty. All valuation adjustments are subject to judgment, are applied on a consistent basis and are based upon observable inputs where available. The Company generally subjects all valuations and models to a review process initially and
on a periodic basis thereafter.            Fair value is a market-based
measure considered from the perspective of a market participant rather than an entity-specific measure. Therefore, even when market assumptions are not readily available, the Company s own assumptions are set to reflect those that the Company
believes market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date.            See Note 4 for a description of valuation techniques applied to the major categories of financial instruments measured at fair value.             Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis.     Certain of the
Company s assets are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis. The Company incurs impairment charges for any writedowns of these assets to fair value. A downturn in market conditions could result in impairment charges in future periods.
           For assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a
non-recurring basis, fair value is determined by using various valuation approaches. The same hierarchy as described above, which maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs, by generally requiring that the
observable inputs be used when available, is used in measuring fair value for these items.            For further information on financial assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a recurring and non-recurring basis, see Note 4.              Hedge Accounting.              The Company applies hedge accounting using various derivative financial
instruments and non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt used to hedge interest rate and foreign exchange risk arising from assets and liabilities not held at fair value as part of asset and liability management. These derivative financial instruments are
included within Financial instruments owned derivative and other contracts or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased derivative and other contracts in the consolidated statements of financial condition.            The Company s hedges are designated and qualify for accounting purposes as
one of the following types of hedges: hedges of changes in fair value of assets and liabilities due to the risk being hedged (fair value hedges), and hedges of net investments in foreign operations whose functional currency is different from the
reporting currency of the parent company (net investment hedges).            For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 10.              Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows.              For purposes of the consolidated statements of cash flows, cash and cash equivalents consist of Cash and due from banks and Interest bearing deposits with banks, which are highly liquid investments with
original maturities of three months or less and readily convertible to known amounts of cash. The Company s significant non-cash activities include assets acquired of $11.0 billion and assumed liabilities, in connection with business

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
acquisitions, of $3.2 billion in 2009. Fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 included assumed liabilities of $77 million and $7,704 million, respectively. During 2009, the Company consolidated certain real
estate funds sponsored by the Company increasing assets by $600 million, liabilities of $18 million and Non-controlling interests of $582 million. In the fourth quarter of 2009, the Company disposed of Crescent, deconsolidating $2,766 million of
assets and $2,947 million of liabilities (see Note 23). During fiscal 2008, the Company consolidated Crescent assets and liabilities of approximately $4,681 million and $3,881 million, respectively. In connection with the Discover Spin-off, net
assets of approximately $5,558 million were distributed to shareholders in fiscal 2007 (see Note 23). At November 30, 2007, $8,086 million of securities were transferred from Securities available for sale to Financial instruments owned.
             Securitization Activities.              The Company engages in securitization activities related to commercial and
residential mortgage loans, corporate bonds and loans, U.S. agency collateralized mortgage obligations and other types of financial assets (see Note 6). Generally, such transfers of financial assets are accounted for as sales when the Company has
relinquished control over the transferred assets. The gain or loss on sale of such financial assets depends, in part, on the previous carrying amount of the assets involved in the transfer allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests
based upon their respective fair values at the date of sale. Transfers that are not accounted for as sales are treated as secured financings ( failed sales ).       
       Premises, Equipment and Software Costs.              Premises and equipment consist of buildings, leasehold improvements, furniture, fixtures, computer and communications
equipment, power plants, tugs, barges, terminals, pipelines and software (externally purchased and developed for internal use). Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation and amortization
are provided by the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset. Estimated useful lives are generally as follows: buildings 39 years; furniture and fixtures 7 years; computer and communications equipment 3 to 8
years; power plants 15 years; tugs and barges 15 years; and terminals and pipelines 3 to 25 years. Estimated useful lives for software costs are generally 3 to 5 years.            Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the estimated useful life of the asset or, where applicable, the
remaining term of the lease, but generally not exceeding: 25 years for building structural improvements and 15 years for other improvements.            Premises, equipment and software costs are tested for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances suggest that an asset s carrying value may
not be fully recoverable in accordance with current accounting guidance.              Income Taxes.              Income tax expense is
provided for using the asset and liability method, under which deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based upon the temporary differences between the financial statement and income tax bases of assets and liabilities using currently
enacted tax rates.              Earnings per Common Share.
             Basic earnings per common share ( EPS ) is
computed by dividing income available to Morgan Stanley common shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Income available to Morgan Stanley common shareholders represents net income applicable to Morgan
Stanley reduced by preferred stock dividends, amortization and the acceleration of discounts on preferred stock issued and allocations of earnings to participating securities. Common shares outstanding include common stock and vested restricted
stock unit awards where recipients have satisfied either the explicit vesting terms or retirement eligibility requirements. Diluted EPS reflects the assumed conversion of all dilutive securities.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Effective October 13, 2008, as a result of the adjustment to Equity Units sold to a wholly owned
subsidiary of China Investment Corporation Ltd. ( CIC ) (see Note 13), the Company calculates EPS in accordance with accounting guidance for determining EPS for participating securities. The accounting guidance for participating securities
and the two-class method of calculating EPS addresses the computation of EPS by companies that have issued securities other than common stock that contractually entitle the holder to participate in dividends and earnings of the company along with
common shareholders according to a predetermined formula. The two-class method requires the Company to present EPS as if all of the earnings for the period are distributed to Morgan Stanley common shareholders and any participating securities,
regardless of whether any actual dividends or distributions are made. The amount allocated to the participating securities is based upon the contractual terms of their respective contract and is reflected as a reduction to  Net income
applicable to Morgan Stanley common shareholders  for both the Company s basic and diluted EPS calculations (see Note 14). The two-class method does not impact the Company s actual net income applicable to Morgan Stanley or other
financial results. Unless contractually required by the terms of the participating securities, no losses are allocated to participating securities for purposes of the EPS calculation under the two-class method.            In June 2008, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the  FASB )
issued accounting guidance on whether share-based payment transactions are participating securities. This accounting guidance addresses whether instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities prior to vesting
and, therefore, need to be included in the earnings allocation in computing EPS under the two-class method as described in the accounting guidance for calculating EPS. Under this accounting guidance, unvested share-based payment awards that contain
non-forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents (whether paid or unpaid) are participating securities and shall be included in the computation of EPS pursuant to the two-class method. The accounting guidance on whether share-based
payment transactions are participating securities became effective for the Company on January 1, 2009. All prior-period EPS data presented were adjusted retrospectively.              Stock-Based Compensation.              The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with the accounting guidance for equity-based awards. This
accounting guidance requires measurement of compensation cost for equity-based awards at fair value and recognition of compensation cost over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures. The Company determines the fair value of restricted stock
units based on the number of units granted and the grant date fair value of the Company s common stock, measured as the volume-weighted average price on the date of grant. The fair value of stock options is determined using the Black-Scholes
valuation model and the single grant life method. Under the single grant life method, option awards with graded vesting are valued using a single weighted-average expected option life. Compensation expense for stock-based payment awards is
recognized using the graded vesting attribution method. Until its discontinuation on June 1, 2009, the Company s Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  ESPP ) allowed employees to purchase shares of the Company s common
stock at a 15% discount from market value. The Company expensed the 15% discount associated with the ESPP until its discontinuation.            For stock-based awards issued prior to the adoption of current accounting guidance, the Company s accounting policy for awards granted to
retirement-eligible employees is to recognize compensation cost over the service period specified in the award terms. The Company accelerates any unrecognized compensation cost for such awards if and when a retirement-eligible employee leaves the
Company.            The Company recognizes the expense for equity-based
awards over the requisite service period. For anticipated year-end equity awards that are granted to employees expected to be retirement-eligible under the award terms, the Company accrues the estimated cost of these awards over the course of the
current fiscal year. As such, the Company accrued the estimated cost of 2009 year-end awards granted to employees who were retirement- eligible under the award terms over 2009 rather than expensing the awards on the date of grant (which occurred

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
in January 2010). The Company believes that this method of recognition for retirement-eligible employees is preferable because it better reflects the period over which the compensation is earned.
             Translation of Foreign Currencies.              Assets and liabilities of operations having non-U.S. dollar functional
currencies are translated at year-end rates of exchange, and income statement accounts are translated at weighted average rates of exchange for the year. Gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements, net of hedge
gains or losses and related tax effects, are reflected in Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss), a separate component of Morgan Stanley Shareholders  equity on the consolidated statement of financial condition. Gains or losses resulting
from remeasurement of foreign currency transactions are included in net income.              Goodwill and Intangible Assets.              Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are not amortized and are reviewed annually (or more frequently when certain events or circumstances exist) for impairment. Other intangible assets are
amortized over their estimated useful lives and reviewed for impairment.              Securities Available for Sale.              Beginning
in the second quarter of fiscal 2007, the Company purchased certain debt securities that were classified as  securities available for sale  in accordance with accounting guidance for certain investments in debt and equity securities.
During fiscal 2007, the Company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of $437 million in Principal transactions trading revenues in the consolidated statement of income.              Deferred Compensation Arrangements.               Rabbi Trust.     The Company maintains trusts, commonly referred to as rabbi trusts, in connection
with certain deferred compensation plans. Assets of rabbi trusts are consolidated, and the value of the Company s stock held in rabbi trusts is classified in Morgan Stanley Shareholders  equity and generally accounted for in a manner
similar to treasury stock. The Company has included its obligations under certain deferred compensation plans in Employee stock trust. Shares that the Company has issued to its rabbi trusts are recorded in Common stock issued to employee trust. Both
Employee stock trust and Common stock issued to employee trust are components of Morgan Stanley Shareholders  equity. The Company recognizes the original amount of deferred compensation (fair value of the deferred stock award at the date of
grant see Note 18) as the basis for recognition in Employee stock trust and Common stock issued to employee trust. Changes in the fair value of amounts owed to employees are not recognized as the Company s deferred compensation plans do
not permit diversification and must be settled by the delivery of a fixed number of shares of the Company s common stock.             Deferred Compensation Plans.     The Company also maintains various deferred compensation plans for the benefit of certain
employees that provide a return to the participating employees based upon the performance of various referenced investments. The Company often invests directly, as a principal, in such referenced investments related to its obligations to perform
under the deferred compensation plans. Changes in value of such investments made by the Company are recorded primarily in Principal transactions investments. Expenses associated with the related deferred compensation plans are recorded in
Compensation and benefits.              Employee Loans.
             At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008,
the Company had $3.5 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, of loans outstanding to certain employees. These loans are full-recourse, require periodic payment terms and have repayment terms ranging from 4 to 12 years.              Accounting Developments.               Accounting for Uncertainty in Income Taxes.     In
July 2006, the FASB issued accounting guidance which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes recognized in a company s financial statements and prescribes a recognition threshold and measurement attribute for the financial
statement recognition and measurement of a tax position taken or expected to be taken in an income tax return. It also provides guidance on

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
derecognition, classification, interest and penalties, accounting in interim periods, disclosure and transition. As a result of the adoption of this accounting guidance on December 1, 2007,
the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of approximately $92 million as a decrease to the opening balance of Retained earnings as of December 1, 2007 (see Note 20).             Employee Benefit Plans.     In September 2006, the FASB issued accounting guidance for pension and
other post retirement plans. In fiscal 2007, the Company adopted the requirement to recognize the overfunded or underfunded status of its defined benefit and postretirement plans as an asset or liability. In the first quarter of fiscal 2008, the
Company recorded an after-tax charge of approximately $13 million ($21 million pre-tax) to Shareholders  equity upon early adoption of the requirement to use the fiscal year-end date as the measurement date (see Note 19).             Dividends on Share-Based Payment Awards.     In June
2007, the Emerging Issues Task Force reached consensus on accounting for tax benefits of dividends on share-based payment awards to employees. The accounting guidance requires that the tax benefit related to dividend equivalents paid on restricted
stock units that are expected to vest be recorded as an increase to additional paid-in capital. The Company adopted this guidance prospectively effective December 1, 2008. The Company previously accounted for this
tax benefit as a reduction to its income tax provision. The adoption of the accounting guidance did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.             Business Combinations .    In December 2007, the FASB issued accounting guidance that requires the
acquiring entity in a business combination to recognize the full fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction (whether a full or partial acquisition); establishes the acquisition-date fair value as the measurement
objective for all assets acquired and liabilities assumed; requires expensing of most transaction and restructuring costs; and requires the acquirer to disclose to investors and other users all of the information needed to evaluate and understand
the nature and financial effect of the business combination. The accounting guidance applies to all transactions or other events in which the Company obtains control of one or more businesses, including those sometimes referred to as  true
mergers  or  mergers of equals  and combinations achieved without the transfer of consideration, for example, by contract alone or through the lapse of minority veto rights. The Company adopted the accounting guidance prospectively on
January 1, 2009.             Transfers of Financial Assets and
Repurchase Financing Transactions.     In February 2008, the FASB issued implementation guidance for accounting for transfers of financial assets and repurchase financing transactions. Under this guidance, there is a
presumption that an initial transfer of a financial asset and a repurchase financing are considered part of the same arrangement ( i.e ., a linked transaction) for purposes of evaluation. If certain criteria are met, however, the initial
transfer and repurchase financing shall not be evaluated as a linked transaction and shall be evaluated separately. The adoption of the guidance on December 1, 2008 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial
statements.             Determination of the Useful Life of Intangible
Assets.     In April 2008, the FASB issued guidance on the determination of the useful life of intangible assets. The guidance removes the requirement for an entity to consider, when determining the useful life of an acquired
intangible asset, whether the intangible asset can be renewed without substantial cost or material modifications to the existing terms and conditions associated with the intangible asset. The guidance replaces the previous useful-life assessment
criteria with a requirement that an entity shall consider its own experience in renewing similar arrangements. If the entity has no relevant experience, it would consider market participant assumptions regarding renewal. The adoption of the guidance
on January 1, 2009 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Instruments Indexed to an Entity s Own Stock.     In June 2008, the FASB
ratified the consensus reached for determining whether an equity-linked financial instrument (or embedded feature) is indexed to an entity s own stock. The accounting guidance applies to any freestanding financial instrument or embedded feature
that has all of the characteristics of a derivative or freestanding instrument that is potentially settled in an entity s own stock with certain exceptions. To meet the definition of  indexed to own stock,  an instrument s
contingent exercise provisions must not be based on (a) an observable market, other than the market for the issuer s stock (if applicable), or (b) an observable index, other than an index calculated or measured solely by reference to
the issuer s own operations, and the variables that could affect the settlement amount must be inputs to the fair value of a  fixed-for-fixed  forward or option on equity shares. The adoption of the guidance on January 1, 2009
did not change the classification or measurement of the Company s financial instruments.             Subsequent Events.     In May 2009, the FASB issued accounting guidance to establish general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events that occur after the balance
sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. The Company s adoption of this guidance in the quarter ended June 30, 2009 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated
financial statements.             Fair Value
Measurements.     In October 2008, the FASB issued accounting guidance that clarifies the determination of fair value in a market that is not active and provides an example to illustrate key considerations in
determining the fair value of a financial instrument when the market for that financial asset is not active. The adoption of the guidance in fiscal 2008 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial
statements.            In April 2009, the FASB issued guidance on
determining fair value when the volume and level of activity for the asset or liability have significantly decreased and identifying transactions that are not orderly. The guidance provides additional application guidance in determining fair values
when there is no active market or where the price inputs being used represent distressed sales. It reaffirms the objective of fair value measurement to reflect how much an asset would be sold for in an orderly transaction (as opposed to a
distressed or forced transaction) at the date of the financial statements under current market conditions. Specifically, it reaffirms the need to use judgment to ascertain if a formerly active market has become inactive and in determining fair
values when markets have become inactive. The adoption of the guidance in the second quarter of 2009 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.            In August 2009, the FASB issued guidance about measuring liabilities at
fair value. The adoption of the guidance on October 1, 2009 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.            In September 2009, the FASB issued additional guidance about measuring the fair value of certain alternative investments,
such as hedge funds, private equity funds, real estate funds and venture capital funds. The guidance allows companies to determine the fair value of such investments using net asset value ( NAV ) as a practical expedient and also requires
disclosures of the nature and risks of the investments by major category of alternative investments. The Company s adoption on December 31, 2009 did not have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements.             Transfers of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities and
Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities .    In June 2009, the FASB issued accounting guidance which changes the way entities account for securitizations and special-purpose entities. The accounting guidance amends the
accounting for transfers of financial assets and will require additional disclosures about transfers of financial assets, including securitization transactions, and where entities have continuing exposure to the risks related to transferred
financial assets. It eliminates the concept of a QSPE and changes the requirements for derecognizing financial assets.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The accounting guidance also amends the accounting for consolidation and changes how a reporting entity
determines when an entity that is insufficiently capitalized or is not controlled through voting (or similar rights) should be consolidated. The determination of whether a reporting entity is required to consolidate another entity is based on, among
other things, the other entity s purpose and design and the reporting entity s ability to direct the activities of the other entity that most significantly impact the other entity s economic performance. In February 2010, the FASB
finalized a deferral of these accounting changes, effective January 1, 2010, for certain interests in investment companies or in entities qualifying for accounting purposes as investment companies. For the entities included in the deferral, the
Company will continue to analyze consolidation under other existing authoritative guidance; these entities are not included in the impact noted below.            The adoption of this accounting guidance on January 1, 2010 did not have a material impact on the Company s consolidated statement of financial
condition.             3.    Morgan Stanley Smith
Barney Holdings LLC.               Smith
Barney.      On May 31, 2009 (the  Closing Date ), the Company and Citi consummated the combination of the Company s Global Wealth Management Group and the businesses of Citi s Smith Barney in the
U.S., Quilter in the U.K., and Smith Barney Australia ( Smith Barney ). In addition to the Company s contribution of respective businesses to MSSB, the Company paid Citi $2,755 million in cash. The combined businesses operate as
MSSB. Pursuant to the terms of the amended contribution agreement, dated as of May 29, 2009 ( amended contribution agreement ), certain businesses of Smith Barney and Morgan Stanley will be contributed to MSSB subsequent to
May 31, 2009 (the  delayed contribution businesses ). Morgan Stanley and Citi will each own their delayed contribution businesses until they are transferred to MSSB and gains and losses from such businesses will be allocated to the
Company s and Citi s respective share of MSSB s gains and losses.            The Company owns 51% and Citi owns 49% of MSSB, with the Company having appointed four directors to the MSSB board and Citi having appointed two directors. As part of the acquisition, the Company has the
option (i) following the third anniversary of the Closing Date to purchase a portion of Citi s interest in MSSB representing 14% of the total outstanding MSSB interests, (ii) following the fourth anniversary of the Closing Date to
purchase a portion of Citi s interest in MSSB representing an additional 15% of the total outstanding MSSB interests and (iii) following the fifth anniversary of the Closing Date to purchase the remainder of Citi s interest in MSSB.
The Company may call all of Citi s interest in MSSB upon a change in control of Citi. Citi may put all of its interest in MSSB to the Company upon a change in control of the Company or following the later of the sixth anniversary of the Closing
Date and the one-year anniversary of the Company s exercise of the call described in clause (ii) above. The purchase price for the call and put rights described above is the fair market value of the purchased interests determined pursuant
to an appraisal process.            As of May 31, 2009, the Company
included MSSB in its consolidated financial statements. The results of MSSB are included within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment. See Note 13 for further information on MSSB.            The Company accounted for the transaction using the acquisition method of
accounting. The fair value of the total consideration transferred to Citi amounted to approximately $6,087 million and the preliminary fair value of Citi s equity in MSSB was approximately $3,973 million. The acquisition method of accounting
prescribes the full goodwill method even in business combinations in which the acquirer holds less than 100% of the equity interests in the acquiree at acquisition date. Accordingly, the full fair value of Smith Barney was allocated to the fair
value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed to derive the preliminary goodwill amount of approximately $5,210 million, which represents synergies of combining the two businesses.   The Company is still finalizing the valuation of the
intangible assets and the fair value of the Company s contributed businesses into MSSB. When finalized, the amount of total consideration transferred, non-controlling interest, intangible assets and acquisition-related goodwill could change.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table summarizes the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the net assets of
Smith Barney as of May 31, 2009 (dollars in millions).         

(1)  
  Total fair value of Smith Barney is inclusive of control premium.     

(2)  
  Goodwill is recorded within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment. The Company is currently evaluating the amount of goodwill deductible for tax purposes.
              Condensed statement of assets acquired and
liabilities assumed.     The following table summarizes the preliminary fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. The allocation of the purchase price is preliminary and subject to
further adjustment as the valuation of certain intangible assets is still in process.         
          In addition, the Company recorded a receivable of approximately $1.1 billion relating to the fair value of the Smith Barney delayed contribution businesses as of May 31, 2009 from Citi. Such amount is presented in the consolidated
statements of financial condition as a reduction from Non-controlling interests.            Amortizable intangible assets included the following as of May 31, 2009:         
          The Company also recorded an
indefinite-lived intangible asset of approximately $280 million related to the Smith Barney trade name.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Citi Managed Futures.      Citi contributed its managed futures business
and certain related proprietary trading positions to MSSB on July 31, 2009 ( Citi Managed Futures ). The Company paid Citi approximately $300 million in cash in connection with this transfer. As of July 31, 2009, Citi
Managed Futures was wholly-owned and consolidated by MSSB, of which the Company owns 51% and Citi owns 49%.            The Company accounted for this transaction using the acquisition method of accounting. The fair value of the total consideration transferred to Citi was approximately $300 million and the preliminary
increase in fair value of Citi s equity in MSSB was approximately $289 million. The acquisition method of accounting prescribes the full goodwill method even in business combinations in which the acquirer holds less than 100% of the equity
interests in the acquiree at acquisition date. Accordingly, the full fair value of Citi Managed Futures was allocated to the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed to derive the preliminary goodwill amount of approximately $136
million, which represents business synergies of combining the Citi Managed Futures business with MSSB. The Company is still finalizing the valuation of the intangible assets. When finalized, the amount of intangible assets and acquisition-related
goodwill could change.            The following table summarizes the
preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the net assets of Citi Managed Futures as of July 31, 2009 (dollars in millions).         

Total fair value of consideration transferred   
      
  $  
  300   
 
    Total fair value of non-controlling interest   

289   

Total fair value of Citi Managed Futures   

589   
 
    Total fair value of net assets acquired   

453   

Preliminary acquisition-related goodwill(1)   
      
  $  
  136   

(1)  
  Goodwill is recorded within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment. The Company is currently evaluating the amount of goodwill deductible for tax purposes.
              Condensed statement of assets acquired and
liabilities assumed.     The following table summarizes the preliminary fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed as of the acquisition date. The allocation of the purchase price is preliminary and subject to
further adjustment as the valuation of certain intangible assets is still in process.         
          As of July 31, 2009, amortizable intangible assets in the amount of $275 million primarily related to management contracts with an estimated useful life of five to nine years.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Pro forma condensed combined financial information (unaudited).             The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information
presents the results of operations of the Company as they may have appeared if the closing of MSSB and Citi Managed Futures had been completed on January 1, 2009, December 1, 2007 and December 1, 2008 (dollars in millions, except
share data).         
          The unaudited pro forma condensed combined
financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and does not indicate the actual financial results of the Company had the closing of Smith Barney and Citi Managed Futures been completed on January 1,
2009, December 1, 2007, and December 1, 2008, nor is it indicative of the results of operations in future periods. Included in the unaudited pro forma combined financial information for 2009, fiscal 2008, and the one month ended
December 31, 2008 were pro forma adjustments to reflect the results of operations of both Smith Barney and Citi Managed Futures as well as the impact of amortizing certain acquisition accounting adjustments such as amortizable intangible
assets. The pro forma condensed financial information does not indicate the impact of possible business model changes nor does it consider any potential impacts of current market conditions, expense efficiencies or other factors.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    4.    Fair Value Disclosures.               Fair Value Measurements.              A description of the valuation techniques applied to the Company s major
categories of assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis follows.             Financial Instruments Owned and Financial Instruments Sold, Not Yet Purchased              U.S. Government and Agency Securities          

U.S. Treasury Securities .    U.S. treasury securities are valued using quoted market prices. Valuation adjustments are not
applied. Accordingly, U.S. treasury securities are generally categorized in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.            

U.S. Agency Securities .    U.S. agency securities are comprised of two main categories consisting of agency issued debt and
mortgage pass-throughs. Non-callable agency issued debt securities are generally valued using quoted market prices. Callable agency issued debt securities are valued by benchmarking model-derived prices to quoted market prices and trade data for
identical or comparable securities. Mortgage pass-throughs include mortgage pass-throughs and forward settling mortgage pools. Fair value of mortgage pass-throughs are model driven with respect to spreads of the comparable To-be-announced
( TBA ) security. Actively traded non-callable agency issued debt securities are categorized in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Callable agency issued debt securities and mortgage pass-throughs are generally categorized in Level 2 of
the fair value hierarchy.                Other Sovereign Government Obligations          

Foreign sovereign government obligations are valued using quoted prices in active markets when available. To the extent quoted prices are not
available, fair value is determined based on a valuation model that has as inputs interest rate yield curves, cross-currency basis index spreads, and country credit spreads for structures similar to the bond in terms of issuer, maturity and
seniority. These bonds are generally categorized in Levels 1 or 2 of the fair value hierarchy.                Corporate and Other Debt          

State and Municipal Securities .    The fair value of state and municipal securities is estimated using recently executed
transactions, market price quotations and pricing models that factor in, where applicable, interest rates, bond or credit default swap spreads and volatility. These bonds are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.

Residential Mortgage-Backed Securities ( RMBS ), Commercial Mortgage-Backed Securities ( CMBS ), and other Asset-Backed
Securities ( ABS ) .    RMBS, CMBS and other ABS may be valued based on external price or spread data. When position-specific external price data are not observable, the valuation is based on prices of comparable
bonds. Valuation levels of RMBS and CMBS indices are used as an additional data point for benchmarking purposes or to price outright index positions.          
     Fair value for retained interests in securitized financial assets (in the form of one or more tranches of the
securitization) is determined using observable prices or, in cases where observable prices are not available for certain retained interests, the Company estimates fair value based on the present value of expected
future cash flows using its best estimates of the key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, prepayment rates, forward yield curves and discount rates commensurate with the risks involved.            RMBS, CMBS and other ABS, including retained interests in these
securitized financial assets, are categorized in Level 3 if external prices or spread inputs are unobservable or if the comparability assessment involves significant subjectivity related to property type differences, cash flows, performance and
other inputs; otherwise, they are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

Corporate Bonds .    The fair value of corporate bonds is estimated using recently executed transactions, market price
quotations (where observable), bond spreads or credit default swap spreads adjusted for any basis difference between cash and derivative instruments. The spread data used are for the same maturity as the bond. If the spread data does not reference
the issuer, then data that reference a comparable issuer are used. When observable price quotations are not available, fair value is determined based on cash flow models with yield curves, bond or single name credit default swap spreads and recovery
rates as significant inputs. Corporate bonds are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in instances where prices, spreads or any of the other aforementioned key inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in Level 3 of the
fair value hierarchy.            

Collateralized Debt Obligations ( CDOs ) .    The Company holds CDOs where the collateral primarily is synthetic
and references either a basket credit default swap or CDO-squared (a CDO-squared is a special purpose vehicle that issues interests, or tranches, that are backed by tranches issued by other CDOs). The correlation input between reference credits
within the collateral is unobservable and is benchmarked to standardized proxy baskets for which correlation data are available. The other model inputs such as credit spreads, interest rates and recovery rates are observable. CDOs are categorized in
Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy when the correlation input is insignificant. In instances where the correlation input is deemed to be significant, these instruments are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

Corporate Loans and Lending Commitments .    The fair value of corporate loans is estimated using recently executed
transactions, market price quotations (where observable), implied yields from comparable debt, and market observable credit default swap spread levels adjusted for any basis difference between cash and derivative instruments, along with proprietary
valuation models and default recovery analysis where such transactions and quotations are unobservable. The fair value of contingent corporate lending commitments is estimated by using executed transactions on comparable loans and the
anticipated market price based on pricing indications from syndicate banks and customers. The valuation of these commitments also takes into account certain fee income. Corporate loans and lending commitments are generally categorized in Level 2 of
the fair value hierarchy; in instances where prices or significant spread inputs are unobservable, they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.            

Mortgage Loans .    Mortgage loans are valued using prices based on trade data for identical or comparable instruments. Where
observable prices are not available, the Company estimates fair value based on benchmarking to prices and rates observed in the primary market for similar loan or borrower types, or based on the present value of expected future cash flows using its
best estimates of the key assumptions, including forecasted credit losses, prepayment rates, forward yield curves and discount rates commensurate with the risks involved. Due to the subjectivity involved in comparability assessment related to
mortgage loan vintage, geographical concentration, prepayment speed and projected loss assumptions, the majority of loans are classified in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.            

Auction Rate Securities ( ARS ) .    The Company primarily holds investments in Student Loan Auction Rate
Securities ( SLARS ) and Municipal Auction Rate Securities ( MARS ) with interest rates that are reset through periodic auctions. SLARS are ABS backed by pools of student loans. MARS are municipal bonds often
wrapped by municipal bond insurance. ARS were historically traded and valued as floating rate notes, priced at par due to the auction mechanism. Beginning in fiscal 2008, uncertainties in the credit markets have resulted in auctions failing for
certain types of ARS. Once the auctions failed, ARS could no longer be valued using observations of auction market prices. Accordingly, the fair value of ARS is determined using independent external market data where available and an internally
developed methodology to discount for the lack of liquidity and non-performance risk in the current market environment.               Inputs that impact the valuation of SLARS are the underlying collateral types, level of seniority in the capital structure, amount
of leverage in each structure, credit rating and liquidity considerations. Inputs

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
that impact the valuation of MARS are independent external market data, the maximum rate, quality of underlying issuers/insurers and evidence of issuer calls. MARS are generally
categorized in Level 2 as the valuation technique relies on observable external data. The majority of SLARS are generally categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.             Corporate Equities.          

Exchange-Traded Equity Securities .    Exchange-traded equity securities are generally valued based on quoted prices from the
exchange. To the extent these securities are actively traded, valuation adjustments are not applied and they are categorized in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy; otherwise, they are categorized in Level 2.                Derivative and Other Contracts.          

Listed Derivative Contracts .    Listed derivatives that are actively traded are valued based on quoted prices from the
exchange and are categorized in Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy. Listed derivatives that are not actively traded are valued using the same approaches as those applied to OTC derivatives; they are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair
value hierarchy.            

OTC Derivative Contracts .    OTC derivative contracts include forward, swap and option contracts related to interest rates,
foreign currencies, credit standing of reference entities, equity prices or commodity prices.               Depending on the product and the terms of the transaction, the fair value of OTC derivative products can be either observed or modeled using
a series of techniques, and model inputs from comparable benchmarks, including closed-form analytic formulas, such as the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, and simulation models or a combination thereof. Many pricing models do not entail material
subjectivity because the methodologies employed do not necessitate significant judgment, and the pricing inputs are observed from actively quoted markets, as is the case for generic interest rate swaps, certain option contracts and certain credit
default swaps. In the case of more established derivative products, the pricing models used by the Company are widely accepted by the financial services industry. A substantial majority of OTC derivative products valued by the Company using pricing
models fall into this category and are categorized within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.            Other derivative products, including complex products that have become illiquid, require more judgment in the implementation of the valuation
technique applied due to the complexity of the valuation assumptions and the reduced observability of inputs. This includes derivative interests in certain mortgage-related CDO securities, basket credit default swaps, CDO-squared positions and
certain types of ABS credit default swaps where direct trading activity or quotes are unobservable. These instruments involve significant unobservable inputs and are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.            Derivative interests in complex mortgage-related CDOs and
credit default swaps, for which observability of external price data is extremely limited, are valued based on an evaluation of the market and model input parameters sourced from similar positions as indicated by primary and secondary market
activity. Each position is evaluated independently taking into consideration the underlying collateral performance and pricing, behavior of the tranche under various cumulative loss and prepayment scenarios, deal structures ( e.g. ,
non-amortizing reference obligations, call features) and liquidity. While these factors may be supported by historical and actual external observations, the determination of their value as it relates to specific positions nevertheless requires
significant judgment.            For basket credit default
swaps and CDO-squared positions, the correlation input between reference credits is unobservable for each specific swap and is benchmarked to standardized proxy baskets for which correlation data are available. The other model inputs such as credit
spread, interest rates and recovery rates are observable. In instances where the correlation input is deemed to be significant, these instruments are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The Company trades various derivative structures with commodity underlyings. Depending
on the type of structure, the model inputs generally include interest rate yield curves, commodity underlier curves, implied volatility of the underlying commodities and, in some cases, the implied correlation between these inputs. The fair value of
these products is estimated using executed trades and broker and consensus data to provide values for the aforementioned inputs. Where these inputs are unobservable, relationships to observable commodities and data points, based on historic and/or
implied observations, are employed as a technique to estimate the model input values. Commodity derivatives are generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; in instances where significant inputs are unobservable, they are
categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.            For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 10.             Investments.          

The Company s investments include direct private equity investments and investments in private equity funds, real estate funds and hedge funds.
Initially, the transaction price is generally considered by the Company as the exit price and is the Company s best estimate of fair value.               After initial recognition, in determining the fair value of internally and externally managed funds, the
Company considers the net asset value of the fund provided by the fund manager to be the best estimate of fair value. For direct private equity investments and privately held investments within internally managed funds, fair value after initial
recognition is based on an assessment of each underlying investment, considering rounds of financing and third-party transactions, discounted cash flow analyses and market-based information, including comparable company transactions, trading
multiples and changes in market outlook, among other factors.            Investments in private equity and real estate funds are generally categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. Investments in hedge funds that are redeemable at the measurement date or in the near
future, are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy; otherwise they are categorized in Level 3.            Physical Commodities.          

The Company trades various physical commodities, including crude oil and refined products, natural gas, base and precious metals and agricultural
products. Fair value for physical commodities is determined using observable inputs, including broker quotations and published indices. Physical commodities are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.                Commercial Paper and Other Short-term Borrowings/Long-Term
Borrowings.          

Structured Notes .    The Company issues structured notes that have coupons or repayment terms linked to the performance of
debt or equity securities, indices, currencies or commodities. Fair value of structured notes is estimated using valuation models for the derivative and debt portions of the notes. These models incorporate observable inputs referencing identical or
comparable securities, including prices that the notes are linked to, interest rate yield curves, option volatility, and currency, commodity or equity rates. Independent, external and traded prices for the notes are also considered. The impact of
the Company s own credit spreads is also included based on the Company s observed secondary bond market spreads. Most structured notes are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.                Deposits.          

Time Deposits .    The fair value of certificates of deposit is estimated using third-party quotations. These deposits are
generally categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy.               The following fair value hierarchy tables present information about the Company s assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2009 and December 31,
2008. See Note 2 for a discussion of the Company s policies regarding this fair value hierarchy.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis as of December 31, 2009  

(1)  
    Approximately $3.0 billion of assets is included in Corporate and other debt and approximately $2.6 billion of related liabilities is included in
Other secured financings related to consolidated VIEs or non-consolidated VIEs (in the cases where the assets were transferred by the Company to the VIE and the transfers were accounted for as secured financings). The Company cannot unilaterally

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

remove the assets from the VIEs as these assets are not generally available to the Company. The related liabilities issued by these VIEs are non-recourse to the Company. Approximately
$1.9 billion of these assets and approximately $1.3 billion of these liabilities are included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. See Note 6 for additional information on consolidated and non-consolidated VIEs, including retained
interests in these entities that the Company holds.      

(2)  
  The Company holds or sells short for trading purposes, equity securities issued by entities in diverse industries and of varying size.     

(3)  
  For positions with the same counterparty that cross over the levels of the fair value hierarchy, both counterparty netting and cash collateral netting are included in
the column titled  Counterparty and Cash Collateral Netting.  For contracts with the same counterparty, counterparty netting among positions classified within the same level is included within that level. For further information on
derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 10.     

(4)  
  Amount represents mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ) accounted for at fair value. See Note 6 for further information on MSRs.              Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis as of
December 31, 2008          

(1)  
  Approximately $8.9 billion of assets is included in Corporate and other debt and approximately $7.9 billion of related liabilities is included in Other
secured financings related to consolidated VIEs or non-consolidated VIEs (in the cases where the assets were transferred by the Company to the VIE and the transfers were accounted for as secured financings). The Company cannot unilaterally remove
the assets from the VIEs; these assets are not generally available to the Company. The related liabilities issued by these VIEs are non-recourse to the Company. Approximately $8.1 billion of these assets and approximately $5.9 billion of
these liabilities are included in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. See Note 6 for additional information on consolidated and non-consolidated VIEs, including retained interests in these entities that the Company holds.     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(2)  
  For positions with the same counterparty that cross over the levels of the fair value hierarchy, both counterparty netting and cash collateral netting are included in
the column titled  Counterparty and Cash Collateral Netting.  For contracts with the same counterparty, counterparty netting among positions classified within the same level is included within that level. For further information on
derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 10.     

(3)  
  Amount represents MSRs accounted for at fair value. See Note 6 for further information on MSRs.              The following tables present additional information about Level 3 assets and
liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis for 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008. Level 3 instruments may be hedged with instruments classified in Level 1 and Level 2. As a result,
the realized and unrealized gains (losses) for assets and liabilities within the Level 3 category presented in the tables below do not reflect the related realized and unrealized gains (losses) on hedging instruments that
have been classified by the Company within the Level 1 and/or Level 2 categories. Additionally, both observable and unobservable inputs may be used to determine the fair value of positions that the Company has classified within
the Level 3 category. As a result, the unrealized gains (losses) during the period for assets and liabilities within the Level 3 category presented in the tables below may include changes in fair value
during the period that were attributable to both observable ( e.g. , changes in market interest rates) and unobservable ( e.g. , changes in unobservable long-dated volatilities) inputs.            The following tables reflect gains (losses) for all assets and liabilities
categorized as Level 3 for 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively. For assets and liabilities that were transferred into Level 3 during the period, gains (losses) are presented as if the assets or
liabilities had been transferred into Level 3 as of the beginning of the period; similarly, for assets and liabilities that were transferred out of Level 3 during the period, gains (losses) are presented as if the assets or liabilities had been
transferred out as of the beginning of the period.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis for 2009  

(1)  
  Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) are primarily included in Principal transactions trading in the consolidated statements of income except for $(1,418)
million related to Financial instruments owned investments, which is included in Principal transactions investments.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(3)  
  Net derivative and other contracts represent Financial instruments owned derivative and other contracts net of Financial instruments sold, not yet
purchased derivative and other contracts. For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 10.               Financial instruments owned Corporate and other debt .    The net losses in Level 3 Corporate and other debt were
primarily driven by certain corporate loans and certain commercial mortgage-backed securities, partially offset by gains in certain other debt and collateralized debt obligations.            During 2009, the Company reclassified approximately $6.8 billion of certain Corporate and other debt from Level 3 to Level
2. The reclassifications were primarily related to certain corporate loans and bonds, state and municipal securities, CMBS and other debt. For certain corporate loans, more liquidity re-entered the market and external prices and/or spread inputs for
these instruments became observable. For corporate bonds and CMBS, the reclassifications were primarily due to an increase in market price quotations for these or comparable instruments, or available broker quotes, such that observable inputs were
utilized for the fair value measurement of these instruments. For certain other debt, as the unobservable inputs became insignificant in the overall valuation, the fair value of these instruments became highly correlated with similar instruments in
an observable market. For state and municipal securities, certain SLARS were reclassified as there was increased activity in the SLARS market and restructuring activity of the underlying trusts.            During 2009, the Company also reclassified approximately $3.3 billion of certain
Corporate and other debt from Level 2 to Level 3. The reclassifications were primarily related to certain corporate loans and were generally due to a reduction in market price quotations for these or comparable instruments, or a lack of available
broker quotes, such that unobservable inputs had to be utilized for the fair value measurement of these instruments. The key unobservable inputs are assumptions to establish comparability to other instruments with observable spread levels.
            Financial instruments owned Net derivative and other
contracts .    The net losses in Net derivative and other contracts were primarily driven by tightening of credit spreads on underlying reference entities of single name and basket credit default swaps.            During 2009, the Company reclassified approximately $10.2 billion of
certain Derivatives and other contracts from Level 3 to Level 2, primarily related to single name subprime and CMBS credit default swaps as well as tranched-indexed corporate credit default swaps. Certain single name subprime and CMBS credit default
swaps were reclassified primarily because the values associated with the unobservable inputs, such as correlation, were no longer deemed significant to the fair value measurement of these derivative contracts due to market deterioration. Increased
availability of transaction data, broker quotes and/or consensus pricing resulted in the reclassifications of certain tranche-indexed corporate credit default swaps. The Company reclassified approximately $0.4 billion of certain Derivatives and
other contracts from Level 2 to Level 3 as certain inputs became unobservable.             Financial instruments owned Investments .    The net losses from investments were primarily related to investments associated with the Company s real estate products.
           The Company reclassified investments in certain hedge funds from
Level 3 to Level 2 because they were redeemable at the measurement date or in the near future.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis for the Fiscal
Year Ended November 30, 2008          

(1)  
  Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) are primarily included in Principal transactions trading in the consolidated statements of income except for $(3,324)
million related to Financial instruments owned investments, which is included in Principal transactions investments.     

(2)  
  Amounts represent unrealized gains (losses) for fiscal 2008 related to assets and liabilities still outstanding at November 30, 2008.     

(3)  
  Net derivative and other contracts represent Financial instruments owned derivative and other contracts net of Financial instruments sold, not yet
purchased derivative and other contracts.               Financial instruments owned Corporate and other debt .    The net losses in Level 3 Corporate and other debt were primarily driven by certain asset-backed securities, including residential and commercial
mortgage loans, certain collateralized debt obligations (including collateralized bond obligations and collateralized loan obligations), certain commercial whole loans and by certain corporate loans and lending commitments.            During fiscal 2008, the Company reclassified approximately $17.3 billion of
certain Corporate and other debt from Level 2 to Level 3. The reclassifications were primarily related to residential and commercial mortgage-backed securities, commercial whole loans and corporate loans. The reclassifications were due to a
reduction in the volume of recently executed transactions and market price quotations for these instruments, or a lack of

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
available broker quotes, such that unobservable inputs had to be utilized for the valuation of these instruments. These unobservable inputs include, depending upon the position, assumptions to
establish comparability to bonds, loans or swaps with observable price/spread levels, default recovery rates, forecasted credit losses and prepayment rates.            During fiscal 2008, the Company reclassified approximately $7.5 billion of certain Corporate and other debt from Level 3 to Level 2. These reclassifications
primarily related to ABS and corporate loans as some liquidity re-entered the market for these specific positions and external prices and spread inputs for these instruments became observable.             Financial instruments owned Net derivative and other
contracts .    The net gains in Level 3 Net derivative and other contracts were primarily driven by widening of credit spreads on underlying reference entities of certain basket default swaps, single name default swaps and
tranche-indexed credit default swaps where the Company was long protection.            The Company reclassified certain Net derivative contracts from Level 2 to Level 3. The reclassifications were primarily related to tranche-indexed credit default swaps. The reclassifications were due to a
reduction in the volume of recently executed transactions and market price quotations for these instruments, or a lack of available broker quotes, such that unobservable inputs had to be utilized for the fair value measurement. These unobservable
inputs include assumptions of comparability to similar instruments with observable market levels and correlation.             Financial instruments owned Investments .    The net losses from investments were primarily related to investments associated
with the Company s real estate products and private equity portfolio.            The Company reclassified investments from Level 3 to Level 2 because it was determined that certain significant inputs for the fair value measurement were observable.             Intangible assets .    The Company reclassified MSRs from Level 2 to Level 3 as significant inputs to
the valuation model became unobservable during the period.             Other secured financings.     The Company reclassified Other secured financings from Level 2 to Level 3 because it was determined that certain significant inputs for the fair value measurement were unobservable.
            Long-term borrowings.     Amounts
included in the Purchases, sales, other settlements and issuances, net column primarily relates to the issuance of junior subordinated debentures related to the CIC investment (see Note 13).         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis for the Fiscal
Year Ended November 30, 2007          

(1)  
  Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) are included in Principal transactions trading in the consolidated statements of income except for $2,538 million
related to Financial instruments owned investments, which is included in Principal transactions investments and $32 million related to Other assets associated with DFS and included in discontinued operations.     

(2)  
  Amounts represent unrealized gains (losses) for fiscal 2007 related to assets and liabilities still outstanding at November 30, 2007.     

(3)  
  Net derivative and other contracts represent Financial instruments owned derivative and other contracts net of Financial instruments sold, not yet
purchased derivative and other contracts.     

(4)  
  Other assets were disposed of in connection with the Discover Spin-off.               Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased Corporate and other
debt .    The net losses in Level 3 Corporate and other debt were primarily driven by certain asset-backed securities, including residential and commercial mortgage loans, and by corporate loans and lending commitments.
           The Company reclassified certain Corporate and other debt from
Level 2 to Level 3 because certain significant inputs for the fair value measurement became unobservable. These reclassifications included transfers in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2007 primarily related to the continued market and liquidity
deterioration in the mortgage markets. The most material transfers into Level 3 were in commercial whole loans, residuals from residential securitizations and interest-only commercial mortgage and agency bonds.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Financial instruments owned Net derivative and other contracts .    The
net gains in Level 3 Net derivative contracts were primarily driven by certain credit default swaps and other instruments associated with the Company s credit products and securitized products activities. The Company recorded offsetting net
losses in Level 2 Net derivative contracts, which were primarily associated with the Company s credit products and securitized products activities.            The Company reclassified certain Net derivative contracts from Level 2 to Level 3 because certain significant inputs for the fair value measurement became
unobservable. The most material transfers into Level 3 were commercial and residential credit default swaps.             Financial instruments owned Investments.     The net gains from Financial instruments owned investments were primarily related to investments associated with the
Company s real estate products and private equity portfolio.             Changes in Level 3 Assets and Liabilities Measured at Fair Value on a Recurring Basis for the One Month Ended December 31, 2008          

(1)  
  Total realized and unrealized gains (losses) are primarily included in Principal transactions trading in the consolidated statements of income except for $(169)
million related to Financial instruments owned investments, which is included in Principal transactions investments.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(2)  
  Amounts represent unrealized gains (losses) for the one month ended December 31, 2008 related to assets and liabilities still outstanding at December 31,
2008.     

(3)  
  Net derivative and other contracts represent Financial instruments owned derivative and other contracts net of Financial instruments sold, not yet
purchased derivative and other contracts. For further information on derivative instruments and hedging activities, see Note 10.               Financial instruments owned Net derivative and other contracts .    The net losses in Net derivative and other contracts were
primarily driven by tightening of credit spreads on underlying reference entities of certain basket credit default swaps, single name credit default swaps and corporate tranche-indexed credit default swaps.            The Company reclassified certain Net derivative contracts from Level 3 to Level
2. The reclassifications were primarily related to corporate tranche-indexed credit default swaps. The reclassifications were due to an increase in transaction data, available broker quotes and/or available consensus pricing, such that significant
inputs for the fair value measurement were observable.              Fair
Value of Investments that Calculate Net Asset Value.              The
following table presents information about the Company s investments in private equity funds, real estate funds and hedge funds measured at fair value based on NAV as of December 31, 2009.         

(1)  
  Fixed income/credit-related hedge funds, event-driven hedge funds, and multi-strategy hedge funds are redeemable at least on a quarterly basis with a notice period of
ninety days or less. Approximately 36% of the fair value amount of long-short equity hedge funds is redeemable at least quarterly, 15% is redeemable every six months and 49% of these funds have a redemption frequency of greater than six months. The
notice period for long-short equity hedge funds is primarily ninety days or less.               Private Equity Funds.     Amount includes several private equity funds that pursue multiple strategies including leveraged buyouts, venture and infrastructure growth capital,
distressed investments, and mezzanine capital. In addition, the funds may be structured with a focus on specific domestic or foreign geographic regions. These investments are generally not redeemable with the funds. Instead, the nature of the
investments in this category is that distributions are received through the liquidation of the underlying assets of the fund. It is estimated that 32% of fair value of the funds will be liquidated within the next five years, another 29% of the fair
value of the funds will be liquidated between five to ten years and the remaining 39% of the fair value of the funds have a remaining life of greater than ten years.             Real Estate Funds.     Amount includes several real estate funds that invest in real estate assets
such as commercial office buildings, retail properties, multi-family residential properties, developments, or hotels. In addition, the funds may be structured with a focus on specific geographic domestic or foreign regions. These investments
are generally not redeemable with the funds. Distributions from each fund will be received as the underlying investments of the funds are liquidated. It is estimated that a majority of real estate funds have a remaining life of greater than 10
years.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Hedge Funds .    Investments in hedge funds may be subject to initial period
lock-up restrictions or gates. A hedge fund lock-up provision is a provision which provides that, during a certain initial period, an investor may not make a withdrawal from the fund. The purpose of a gate is to restrict the level of redemptions
that an investor in a particular hedge fund can demand on any redemption date.         

Long-short Equity Hedge Funds.     Amount includes investments in hedge funds that invest, long/short, in equities. Equity
value and growth hedge funds purchase stocks perceived to be undervalued and sell stocks perceived to be overvalued. Investments representing approximately 38% of the fair value of the investments in this category cannot be redeemed currently
because the investments include certain initial period lock-up restrictions. The remaining restriction period for 45% of investments subject to lock-up restrictions ranged from one to three years at December 31, 2009. The remaining restriction
period for the other 55% of investments subject to lock-up restrictions was estimated to be greater than three years at December 31, 2009. Investments representing approximately 50% of the fair value of the investments in long-short equity hedge
funds cannot be redeemed currently because an exit restriction has been imposed by the hedge fund manager. The restriction period for 86% of investments subject to an exit restriction is expected to be less than a year at December 31, 2009.

Fixed Income/Credit-Related Hedge Funds.     Amount includes investments in hedge funds that invest in long-short,
distressed, and relative value securities in order to benefit from undervalued or over-valued securities that are primarily debt or credit related. Investments representing approximately 95% of the fair value of the investments in fixed
income/credit-related hedge funds cannot be redeemed currently because the investments include certain initial period lock-up restrictions. The remaining restriction period for these investments was three years or less at December 31, 2009.

Event-Driven Hedge Funds.     Amount includes investments in hedge funds that invest in event-driven situations such as
mergers, hostile takeovers, reorganizations, or leveraged buyouts. This may involve the simultaneous purchase of stock in companies being acquired, and the sale of stock in its acquirer, hoping to profit from the spread between the current market
price and the ultimate purchase price of the target company. Investments representing approximately 100% of the value of the investments in this category cannot be redeemed currently because the investments include certain initial period lock-up
restrictions. The remaining restriction period for these investments was three years or less at December 31, 2009.            

Multi-strategy Hedge Funds.     Amount includes investments in hedge funds that pursue multiple strategies to realize short
and long-term gains. Management of the hedge funds has the ability to overweight or underweight different strategies to best capitalize on current investment opportunities. Investments representing approximately 44% of the fair value of the
investments in this category cannot be redeemed currently because the investments include certain initial period lock-up restrictions. The remaining restriction period for 63% of investments subject to lock-ups was three years or less at
December 31, 2009. In addition, investments representing approximately 27% of the fair value of the investments in this category cannot be redeemed currently because an exit restriction has been imposed by the hedge fund manager. The redemption
restriction for all investments subject to an exit restriction has been in place for less than two years at December 31, 2009 and the time at which the redemption restriction may lapse cannot be estimated.            

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Fair Value Option.              The Company elected the fair value option for certain eligible instruments that are risk managed on a fair value basis. The
following tables present net gains (losses) due to changes in fair value for items measured at fair value pursuant to the fair value option election for 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008.         
          In addition to the amounts in the above table, as discussed in Note 2, all of the instruments within Financial instruments owned or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased are measured at fair
value, either through the election of the fair value option, or as required by other accounting pronouncements.            The following table presents information on the Company s short-term and long-term borrowings (including structured notes and junior subordinated
debentures), loans and unfunded lending commitments for which the fair value option was elected:             (Losses) Gains Due to Changes in Instrument Specific Credit Spreads          

(1)  
  Gains (losses) were attributable to widening or (tightening), respectively, of the Company s credit spreads and were determined based upon observations of the
Company s secondary bond market spreads. The remainder of changes in overall fair value of the short-term and long-term borrowings is attributable to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates and movements in the reference
price or index for structured notes.     

(2)  
  Instrument-specific credit gains or (losses) were determined by excluding the non-credit components of gains and losses, such as those due to changes in interest rates.

(3)  
  Gains (losses) were generally determined based on the differential between estimated expected client and contractual yields at each respective period end.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Amount by Which Contractual Principal Amount Exceeds Fair Value          

(1)  
  These amounts do not include structured notes where the repayment of the initial principal amount fluctuates based on changes in the reference price or index.

(2)  
  The majority of this difference between principal and fair value amounts emanates from the Company s distressed debt trading business, which purchases distressed
debt at amounts well below par.     
           Assets and Liabilities Measured at
Fair Value on a Non-Recurring Basis.              2009.
            Certain assets were measured at fair value on a
non-recurring basis and are not included in the tables above. These assets may include loans, equity method investments, premises and equipment, intangible assets and real estate investments.            The following tables present, by caption on the consolidated statement of
financial position, the fair value hierarchy for those assets measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis for which the Company recognized an impairment charge for 2009 and fiscal 2008, respectively.         

(1)  
  Impairment losses are recorded within Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income except for impairment losses related to Receivables other loans and
Other investments, which are included in Other revenues.     

(2)  
  Impairment losses for loans were calculated based upon the fair value of the underlying collateral. The fair value of the collateral was determined using internal
expected recovery models.     

(3)  
  Impairment losses recorded were determined primarily using discounted cash flow models.     

(4)  
  Impairment losses related to the Institutional Securities business segment s fixed income business.     

(5)  
  These impairment losses relate to buildings and properties held in the Asset Management business segment and are a result of the continued adverse impact of economic
conditions on domestic real estate markets. Fair values were generally determined using discounted cash flow models or third-party appraisals and valuations.         
     In addition to the impairment losses included in the table above, impairment losses of approximately $466 million (of which $45 million
related to Other investments, $12 million related to Intangible assets, and $409 million related to Other assets) were included in discontinued operations related to Crescent (see Note 23).

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
Impairment losses of approximately $24 million were also included in discontinued operations related to premises and equipment of an entity sold by the Company in 2009.            There were no liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis during
2009.            There were no assets or liabilities measured at fair value
on a non-recurring basis for which the Company recognized an impairment charge during the one month ended December 31, 2008.             Fiscal 2008.          

(1)  
  Impairment losses are recorded within Other expenses in the consolidated statement of income except for impairment losses related to Receivables Other loans and
Other investments, which are included in Other revenues.     

(2)  
  Impairment losses for loans held for investment were calculated based upon the fair value of the underlying collateral. The fair value of the collateral was determined
using external indicative bids, if available, or internal expected recovery models.     

(3)  
  Impairment losses recorded were determined primarily using discounted cash flow models.     

(4)  
  The impairment charge relates to the fixed income business, which is a reporting unit within the Institutional Securities business segment.     

(5)  
  The impairment charge relates to the fixed income business, which is a reporting unit within the Institutional Securities business segment. The fair value of the fixed
income business was estimated by comparison to similar companies using their publicly traded price-to-book multiples as the basis for valuation. The impairment charge resulted from declines in the credit and mortgage markets in general, which caused
significant declines in the stock market capitalization in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, and hence, a decline in the fair value of the fixed income business (see Note 7).     

(6)  
  Impairment losses of $21 million recorded within the Institutional Securities business segment primarily related to intellectual property rights. Impairment losses of
$25 million recorded within the Asset Management business segment primarily related to management contract intangibles (see Note 7).     

(7)  
  Buildings and property were written down to their fair value resulting in an impairment charge of $30 million. Fair values were generally determined using discounted
cash flow models or third-party appraisals and valuations. A deferred commission asset associated with certain mutual fund sales commissions was written down to its fair value, resulting in an impairment of $14 million. The fair value was determined
using a discounted cash flow model. These charges relate to the Asset Management business segment.              In addition to the impairment losses included in the table above, impairment losses of approximately $277 million (of which, $34 million related to Other
investments, $6 million related to Intangible assets and $237 million related to Other assets) were included in discontinued operations related to Crescent (see Note 23).       
     There were no liabilities measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis during fiscal 2008.              Financial Instruments Not Measured at Fair Value.              Some of the Company s financial instruments are not measured at fair value
on a recurring basis but nevertheless are recorded at amounts that approximate fair value due to their liquid or short-term nature. Such financial assets and financial liabilities include: Cash and due from banks, Interest bearing deposits with
banks, Cash deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements, Federal funds sold

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
and Securities purchased under agreements to resell, Securities borrowed, Securities sold under agreements to repurchase, Securities loaned, Receivables customers, Receivables brokers,
dealers and clearing organizations, Payables customers, Payables brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, certain Commercial paper and other short-term borrowings, and certain Deposits.            The Company s long-term borrowings are recorded at amortized amounts unless
elected under the fair value option or designated as a hedged item in a fair value hedge. For long-term borrowings not measured at fair value, the fair value of the Company s long-term borrowings was estimated using either quoted market prices
or discounted cash flow analyses based on the Company s current borrowing rates for similar types of borrowing arrangements. As of December 31, 2009, the carrying value of the Company s long-term borrowings was approximately $1.4
billion higher than fair value. As of December 31, 2008, the carrying value of the Company s long-term borrowings was approximately $25.6 billion higher than fair value.             5.    Collateralized Transactions.             Securities purchased under agreements to resell ( reverse repurchase agreements ) and Securities sold under
agreements to repurchase ( repurchase agreements ), principally government and agency securities, are carried at the amounts at which the securities subsequently will be resold or reacquired as specified in the respective agreements; such
amounts include accrued interest. Reverse repurchase agreements and repurchase agreements are presented on a net-by-counterparty basis, when appropriate. The Company s policy is generally to take possession of securities purchased under
agreements to resell. Securities borrowed and Securities loaned are carried at the amounts of cash collateral advanced and received in connection with the transactions. Other secured financings include the liabilities related to transfers of
financial assets that are accounted for as financings rather than sales, consolidated VIEs where the Company is deemed to be the primary beneficiary, and certain equity-referenced securities and loans where in all instances these liabilities are
payable solely from the cash flows of the related assets accounted for as Financial instruments owned (see Note 6).            The Company pledges its financial instruments owned to collateralize repurchase agreements and other securities financings. Pledged financial instruments
that can be sold or repledged by the secured party are identified as Financial instruments owned (pledged to various parties) in the consolidated statements of financial condition. The carrying value and classification of financial instruments owned
by the Company that have been loaned or pledged to counterparties where those counterparties do not have the right to sell or repledge the collateral were as follows:         
          The Company enters into reverse repurchase agreements, repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions to, among other things, acquire securities to cover short positions and settle other securities
obligations, to accommodate customers  needs and to finance the Company s inventory positions. The Company also engages in securities financing transactions for customers through margin lending. Under these

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
agreements and transactions, the Company either receives or provides collateral, including U.S. government and agency securities, other sovereign government obligations, corporate and other debt,
and corporate equities. The Company receives collateral in the form of securities in connection with reverse repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and derivative transactions, and customer margin loans. In many cases, the Company is permitted
to sell or repledge these securities held as collateral and use the securities to secure repurchase agreements, to enter into securities lending and derivative transactions or for delivery to counterparties to cover short positions. As of
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the fair value of financial instruments received as collateral where the Company is permitted to sell or repledge the securities was $429 billion and $290 billion, respectively, and the fair value
of the portion that had been sold or repledged was $311 billion and $214 billion, respectively.            The Company additionally receives securities as collateral in connection with certain securities for securities transactions in which the Company is the lender. In instances where the Company is permitted
to sell or repledge these securities, the Company reports the fair value of the collateral received and the related obligation to return the collateral in the consolidated statements of financial condition. As of December 31, 2009
and December 31, 2008, $14 billion and $5 billion, respectively, were reported as Securities received as collateral and an Obligation to return securities received as collateral in the consolidated statements of financial condition.
Collateral received in connection with these transactions that was subsequently repledged was approximately $13 billion and $4 billion as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively.            The Company manages credit exposure arising from reverse repurchase agreements,
repurchase agreements, securities borrowed and securities loaned transactions by, in appropriate circumstances, entering into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties that provide the Company, in the event of a
customer default, the right to liquidate collateral and the right to offset a counterparty s rights and obligations. The Company also monitors the fair value of the underlying securities as compared with the related receivable or payable,
including accrued interest, and, as necessary, requests additional collateral to ensure such transactions are adequately collateralized. Where deemed appropriate, the Company s agreements with third parties specify its rights to request
additional collateral. Customer receivables generated from margin lending activity are collateralized by customer-owned securities held by the Company. For these transactions, adherence to the Company s collateral policies significantly limits
the Company s credit exposure in the event of customer default. The Company may request additional margin collateral from customers, if appropriate, and, if necessary, may sell securities that have not been paid for or purchase securities sold
but not delivered from customers.            The Company is subject to
concentration risk by holding large positions in certain types of securities, loans or commitments to purchase securities of a single issuer, including sovereign governments and other entities, issuers located in a particular country or geographic
area, public and private issuers involving developing countries, or issuers engaged in a particular industry. Financial instruments owned by the Company include U.S. government and agency securities and securities issued by other sovereign
governments (principally the U.K., Japan, South Korea and Brazil), which, in the aggregate, represented approximately 11% of the Company s total assets as of December 31, 2009. In addition, substantially all of the collateral held by the
Company for resale agreements or bonds borrowed, which together represented approximately 30% of the Company s total assets as of December 31, 2009, consist of securities issued by the U.S. government, federal agencies or other sovereign
government obligations. Positions taken and commitments made by the Company, including positions taken and underwriting and financing commitments made in connection with its private equity, principal investment and lending activities, often involve
substantial amounts and significant exposure to individual issuers and businesses, including non-investment grade issuers. In addition, the Company may originate or purchase certain residential and commercial mortgage loans that could contain
certain terms and features that may result in additional credit risk as compared with more traditional types of mortgages. Such terms and features may include loans made to borrowers subject to payment increases or loans with high loan-to-value
ratios.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, cash and securities deposited with clearing
organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements were as follows:         

(1)  
  Securities deposited with clearing organizations or segregated under federal and other regulations or requirements are sourced from Federal funds sold and securities
purchased under agreements to resell and Financial instruments owned in the consolidated statements of financial condition.               6.    Securitization Activities and Variable Interest Entities.               Securitization Activities and Qualifying Special Purpose Entities.               Securitization Activities.     In a securitization
transaction, the Company transfers assets (generally commercial or residential mortgage loans or U.S. agency securities) to a special purpose entity (an  SPE ), sells to investors most of the beneficial interests, such as notes or
certificates, issued by the SPE and in many cases retains other beneficial interests. In many securitization transactions involving commercial mortgage loans, the Company transfers a portion of the assets to the SPE with unrelated parties
transferring the remaining assets.            The purchase of the
transferred assets by the SPE is financed through the sale of these interests. In some of these transactions, primarily involving residential mortgage loans in the U.S. and Europe and commercial mortgage loans in Europe, the Company acts as servicer
for some or all of the transferred loans. In many securitizations, particularly involving residential mortgage loans, the Company also enters into derivative transactions, primarily interest rate swaps or interest rate caps, with the SPE.
           In most of these transactions, the SPE met the criteria to be a
QSPE under the accounting guidance effective prior to January 1, 2010 for the transfer and servicing of financial assets. The Company did not consolidate QSPEs if they met certain criteria regarding the types of assets and derivatives they may
hold, the activities in which they may engage and the range of discretion they may exercise in connection with the assets they hold. The determination of whether an SPE met the criteria to be a QSPE required considerable judgment, particularly in
evaluating whether the permitted activities of the SPE were significantly limited and in determining whether derivatives held by the SPE were passive and not excessive.       
     The primary risk retained by the Company in connection with these transactions generally was limited to the beneficial interests issued by the
SPE that were owned by the Company, with the risk highest on the most subordinate class of beneficial interests. Where the QSPE criteria were met, these beneficial interests generally were included in Financial instruments owned corporate and
other debt and were measured at fair value. The Company did not provide additional support in these transactions through contractual facilities, such as liquidity facilities, guarantees, or similar derivatives.            Although not obligated, the Company generally makes a market in the securities
issued by SPEs in these transactions. As a market maker, the Company offers to buy these securities from, and sell these securities to, investors. Securities purchased through these market-making activities are not considered to be retained
interests, although these beneficial interests generally are included in Financial instruments owned corporate and other debt and are measured at fair value.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The Company enters into derivatives, generally interest rate swaps and interest rate caps with a senior
payment priority in many securitization transactions. The risks associated with these and similar derivatives with SPEs are essentially the same as similar derivatives with non-SPE counterparties and are managed as part of the Company s overall
exposure.            See Note 10 for further information on derivative
instruments and hedging activities.             QSPEs .    The following tables present information as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 regarding QSPEs to which the Company, acting as principal, had transferred assets and received sales
treatment, and QSPEs sponsored by the Company to which the Company had not transferred assets (dollars in millions):         

(1)  
  Amounts include $56.6 billion of assets transferred to the QSPEs by unrelated transferors.           

(1)  
  Amounts include $57.8 billion of assets transferred to the QSPEs by unrelated transferors.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Transferred assets are carried at fair value prior to securitization, and any changes in fair value are
recognized in the consolidated statements of income. The Company may act as underwriter of the beneficial interests issued by securitization vehicles. Underwriting net revenues are recognized in connection with these transactions. The Company may
retain interests in the securitized financial assets as one or more tranches of the securitization. These retained interests are included in the consolidated statements of financial condition at fair value. Any changes in the fair value of such
retained interests are recognized in the consolidated statements of income. Net gains at the time of securitization were $104 million in 2009. Net gains at the time of securitization were not material in fiscal 2008 and in the one month ended
December 31, 2008.            During 2009 and fiscal 2008, the Company
received proceeds from new securitization transactions of $8.6 billion and $7.1 billion, respectively. The Company did not receive any proceeds from new securitization transactions during the one month ended December 31, 2008. During 2009,
fiscal 2008 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, the Company received proceeds from cash flows from retained interests in securitization transactions of $2.1 billion, $3.1 billion and $153 million, respectively.            The Company provides representations and warranties that certain assets
transferred in securitization transactions conform to specific guidelines (see Note 11).             Mortgage Servicing Rights.     The Company may retain servicing rights to certain mortgage loans that are sold through its securitization activities. These transactions create an
asset referred to as MSRs, which totaled approximately $137 million and $184 million as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, and are included within Intangible assets and carried at fair value in the consolidated
statements of financial condition.             SPE Mortgage Servicing
Activities.     The Company services residential mortgage loans in the U.S. and Europe and commercial mortgage loans in Europe owned by SPEs, including SPEs sponsored by the Company and SPEs not sponsored by the Company. Most
of these SPEs met the requirements for QSPEs. The Company generally holds retained interests in Company-sponsored QSPEs. In some cases, as part of its market making activities, the Company may own some beneficial interests issued by both
Company-sponsored and non-Company sponsored SPEs.            The Company
provides no credit support as part of its servicing activities. The Company is required to make servicing advances to the extent that it believes that such advances will be reimbursed. Reimbursement of servicing advances is a senior obligation of
the SPE, senior to the most senior beneficial interests outstanding. Outstanding advances are included in Other assets and are recorded at cost. Advances as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 totaled approximately $2.2 billion and
$2.4 billion, respectively, net of reserves of $23 million as of December 31, 2009 and $10 million as of December 31, 2008.            The following tables present information about the Company s mortgage servicing activities for SPEs to which the Company transferred loans as of
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 (dollars in millions):         

(1)  
  Includes loans that are at least 90 days contractually delinquent, loans for which the borrower has filed for bankruptcy, loans in foreclosure and real estate owned.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(1)  
  Includes loans that are at least 90 days contractually delinquent, loans for which the borrower has filed for bankruptcy, loans in foreclosure and real estate owned.
             The Company also serviced residential and
commercial mortgage loans for SPEs sponsored by unrelated parties with unpaid principal balances totaling $20 billion and $25 billion as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively.              Variable Interest Entities.      Accounting
guidance for consolidation of VIEs applied to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without
additional subordinated financial support from other parties. QSPEs were not subject to consolidation prior to January 1, 2010, but are subject to consolidation requirements for VIEs beginning on that date. Under the guidance effective prior to
January 1, 2010, the primary beneficiary of a VIE was the party that absorbed a majority of the entity s expected losses, received a majority of its expected residual returns or both, as a result of holding variable interests. The Company
consolidated entities of which it was the primary beneficiary. Under the guidance adopted on January 1, 2010, the primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that both has the power to make decisions that most significantly affect the economic
performance of the VIE and has the right to receive benefits or obligation to absorb losses that in either case could potentially be significant to the VIE.            The Company is involved with various entities in the normal course of business that may be deemed to be VIEs. The Company s variable interests in VIEs
include debt and equity interests, commitments, guarantees and derivative instruments. The Company s involvement with VIEs arises primarily from:         

Interests purchased in connection with market making and retained interests held as a result of securitization activities.

Guarantees issued and residual interests retained in connection with municipal bond securitizations.            

Loans and investments made to VIEs that hold debt, equity, real estate or other assets.            

Derivatives entered into with VIEs.            

Structuring of credit-linked notes ( CLNs ) or other asset-repackaged notes designed to meet the investment objectives of clients.

Other structured transactions designed to provide tax-efficient yields to the Company or its clients.               The Company determined whether it was the primary beneficiary of a VIE upon its
initial involvement with the VIE. This determination was based upon an analysis of the design of the VIE, including the VIE s structure and activities and the variable interests owned by the Company.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Under the accounting guidance effective prior to January 1, 2010, the Company was required to
reassess whether it was the primary beneficiary of a VIE only upon the occurrence of certain reconsideration events. Under the guidance adopted on January 1, 2010, the Company is required to reassess whether it is the primary beneficiary on an
ongoing basis and not just upon the occurrence of certain events.            If the Company s initial assessment resulted in a determination that it was not the primary beneficiary of a VIE, then under the guidance effective prior to January 1, 2010, the Company reassessed this determination upon the
occurrence of:         

Changes to the VIE s governing documents or contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocated the obligation to absorb the expected losses or
the right to receive the expected residual returns of the VIE between the primary beneficiary at that time and the other variable interest holders, including the Company.            

Acquisition by the Company of additional variable interests in the VIE.               If the Company s initial assessment resulted in a determination that it was the primary beneficiary, then under the
guidance effective prior to January 1, 2010, the Company reassessed this determination upon the occurrence of:         

Changes to the VIE s governing documents or contractual arrangements in a manner that reallocated the obligation to absorb the expected losses or
the right to receive the expected residual returns of the VIE between the primary beneficiary at that time and the other variable interest holders.            

A sale or disposition by the Company of all or part of its variable interests in the VIE to parties unrelated to the Company.

The issuance of new variable interests by the VIE to parties unrelated to the Company.               Except for consolidated VIEs included in other structured financings in the
tables below, the Company accounts for the assets held by the entities primarily in Financial instruments owned and the liabilities of the entities as Other secured financings in the consolidated statements of financial condition. The Company
includes assets held by consolidated VIEs included in other structured financings in the tables below primarily in Receivables, Premises, equipment and software costs and Other assets and the liabilities primarily as Other liabilities and accrued
expenses and Payables in the consolidated statements of financial condition. Except for consolidated VIEs included in other structured financings, the assets and liabilities are measured at fair value, with changes in fair value reflected in
earnings.            The assets owned by many consolidated VIEs cannot be
removed unilaterally by the Company and are not generally available to the Company. The related liabilities issued by many consolidated VIEs are non-recourse to the Company. In certain other consolidated VIEs, the Company has the unilateral right to
remove assets or provides additional recourse through derivatives such as total return swaps, guarantees or other forms of involvement.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following tables present information as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 about
VIEs which the Company consolidates (dollars in millions):         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following tables present information about non-consolidated VIEs in which the Company had
significant variable interests or served as the sponsor and had any variable interest as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 (dollars in millions):         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The Company s maximum exposure to loss often differs from the carrying value of the VIE s
assets. The maximum exposure to loss is dependent on the nature of the Company s variable interest in the VIEs and is limited to the notional amounts of certain liquidity facilities, other credit support, total return swaps, written put
options, and the fair value of certain other derivatives and investments the Company has made in the VIEs. Liabilities issued by VIEs generally are non-recourse to the Company. Where notional amounts are utilized in quantifying maximum exposure
related to derivatives, such amounts do not reflect fair value writedowns already recorded by the Company.            The Company s maximum exposure to loss does not include the offsetting benefit of any financial instruments that the Company may utilize to hedge these risks associated with the Company s
variable interests.             Municipal Tender Option Bond
Trusts.     In a municipal tender option bond transaction, the Company, on behalf of a client, transfers a municipal bond to a trust. The trust issues short-term securities which the Company as the remarketing agent sells to
investors. The client retains a residual interest. The short-term securities are supported by a liquidity facility pursuant to which the investors may put their short-term interests. In some programs, the Company provides this liquidity facility; in
most programs, a third-party provider will provide such liquidity facility. The Company may purchase short-term securities in its role either as remarketing agent or liquidity provider. The client can generally terminate the transaction at any time.
The liquidity provider can generally terminate the transaction upon the occurrence of certain events. When the transaction is terminated, the municipal bond is generally sold or returned to the client. Any losses suffered by the liquidity provider
upon the sale of the bond are the responsibility of the client. This obligation generally is collateralized. In prior periods, the Company established trusts in connection with its proprietary trading activities and consolidated those trusts. As of
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, no proprietary trusts were outstanding.             Credit Protection Purchased Through CLNs.     In a CLN transaction, the Company transfers assets (generally high quality securities or money market investments) to an SPE, enters
into a derivative transaction in which the SPE writes protection on an unrelated reference asset or group of assets through a credit default swap, a total return swap or similar instrument, and sells to investors the securities issued by the SPE. In
some transactions, the Company may also enter into interest rate or currency swaps with the SPE. Upon the occurrence of a credit event related to the reference asset, the SPE will sell the collateral securities in order to make the payment to the
Company. The Company is generally exposed to price changes on the collateral securities in the event of a credit event and subsequent sale. These transactions are designed to transfer the credit risk on the reference asset to investors. In some
transactions, the assets and liabilities of the SPE are recognized in the Company s consolidated financial statements. In other transactions, the transfer of the collateral securities is accounted for as a sale of assets and the SPE is not
consolidated. The structure of the transaction determines the accounting treatment.            The derivatives in CLN transactions consist of total return swaps, credit default swaps or similar contracts in which the Company has purchased protection on a reference asset or group of assets. Payments
by the SPE are collateralized. The risks associated with these and similar derivatives with SPEs are essentially the same as similar derivatives with non-SPE counterparties and are managed as part of the Company s overall exposure.   
         Other Structured Financings .    The Company
primarily invests in equity interests issued by entities that develop and own low income communities (including low income housing projects) and entities that construct and own facilities that will generate
energy from renewable resources. The equity interests entitle the Company to its share of tax credits and tax losses generated by these projects. In addition, the Company has issued guarantees to investors in certain low-income
housing funds. The guarantees are designed to return an investor s contribution to a fund and the investor s share of tax losses and tax credits expected to be generated by the fund. The Company is also involved with entities designed to
provide tax-efficient yields to the Company or its clients.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Collateralized Loan and Debt Obligations.     A collateralized loan obligation
( CLO ) or a CDO is an SPE that purchases a pool of assets, consisting of corporate loans, corporate bonds, asset-backed securities or synthetic exposures on similar assets through derivatives and issues multiple tranches of debt and
equity securities to investors. In the Asset Management business segment, the Company manages CLOs with assets of $2.2 billion and $2.1 billion as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, and receives a management fee for
these services. The Company s maximum exposure to loss on these managed CLOs was immaterial as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. The Company s maximum exposure to loss on other CLOs and CDOs is $1.5 billion and $3.0 billion as of
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively.             Equity-Linked Notes.     In an equity-linked note transaction included in the tables above, the Company typically transfers to an SPE either (1) a note issued by the Company, the payments on which are linked
to the performance of a specific equity security, equity index or other index or (2) debt securities issued by other companies and a derivative contract, the terms of which will relate to the performance of a specific equity security, equity
index or other index. These transactions are designed to transfer to investors the risks related to the specific equity security, equity index or other index.         
   Asset Management Investment Funds.     The tables above do not include certain investments made by the Company held by entities
qualifying for accounting purposes as investment companies.            See
Note 11 for information on a lending facility provided to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company. The Company provided this facility in response to the fund s increased liquidity needs resulting from the downturn in the global real
estate markets.              Failed Sales.              In order to be treated as a sale of assets for accounting purposes, a
transaction must meet all of the criteria stipulated in the accounting guidance for the transfer of financial assets. If the transfer fails to meet these criteria, that transfer is treated as a failed sale. In such case, the Company continues to
recognize the assets in Financial instruments owned and the Company recognizes the associated liabilities in Other secured financings in the consolidated statements of financial condition.            The assets transferred to many unconsolidated VIEs in transactions accounted for
as failed sales cannot be removed unilaterally by the Company and are not generally available to the Company. The related liabilities issued by many unconsolidated VIEs are non-recourse to the Company. In certain other failed sale transactions, the
Company has the unilateral right to remove assets or provides additional recourse through derivatives such as total return swaps, guarantees or other forms of involvement.       
     The following tables present information about transfers of assets treated by the Company as secured financings as of December 31, 2009
and December 31, 2008:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

           7.    Goodwill and Net Intangible Assets.             Goodwill and net intangible assets increased during 2009 primarily due to the acquisition of Smith Barney and Citi Managed Futures (see Note 3).   
        The Company tests goodwill for impairment on an annual basis and on an
interim basis when certain events or circumstances exist. The Company tests for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is generally one level below its business segments. Goodwill impairment is determined by comparing the estimated fair value
of a reporting unit with its respective book value. If the estimated fair value exceeds the book value, goodwill at the reporting unit level is not deemed to be impaired. If the estimated fair value is below book value, however, further analysis is
required to determine the amount of the impairment.            The estimated
fair values of the reporting units are generally determined utilizing methodologies that incorporate price-to-book, price-to-earnings and assets under management multiples of certain comparable companies.            The Company completed its annual goodwill impairment testing as of June 1,
2009 and June 1, 2008, which did not result in any goodwill impairment. During the quarter ended September 30, 2009, the Company changed the date of its annual goodwill impairment testing to July 1 as a result of the Company s
change in its fiscal year-end from November 30 to December 31 of each year. The change to the annual goodwill impairment testing date was to move the impairment testing outside of the Company s normal second quarter-end reporting
process to a date in the third quarter, consistent with the testing date prior to the change in the fiscal year-end. The Company believes that the resulting change in accounting principle related to the annual testing date will not delay,
accelerate, or avoid an impairment charge. Goodwill impairment tests performed as of July 1, 2009 concluded that no impairment charges were required as of that date. The Company determined that the change in accounting principle related to the
annual testing date is preferable under the circumstances and did not result in adjustments to the Company s consolidated financial statements when applied retrospectively.            Due to the financial market and economic events that occurred in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company performed an
interim impairment test for goodwill subsequent to its annual testing date of June 1, 2008. The interim impairment test resulted in a noncash goodwill impairment charge of approximately $673 million. The charge related to the fixed income
business, which is a reporting unit within the Institutional Securities business segment. The fair value of the fixed income business was calculated by comparison with similar companies using their publicly traded price-to-book multiples as the
basis for valuation. The impairment charge resulted from declines in the credit and mortgage markets in general, which caused significant declines in the stock market capitalization in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 and, hence, a decline in the
fair value of the fixed income business.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Due to the continued deterioration in the financial markets, the Company performed an interim impairment
test of goodwill in the one month ended December 31, 2008, which did not result in impairment.              Goodwill.              Changes in the carrying amount of the Company s goodwill, net of accumulated impairment losses for 2009, fiscal 2008 and the one month ended December 31, 2008 were as follows:         

(2)  
  Global Wealth Management Group activity primarily represents goodwill disposed of in connection with the Company s sale of Morgan Stanley Wealth Management S.V.,
S.A.U. (see Note 17).     

(3)  
  Impairment losses are recorded within Other expenses in the consolidated statements of income.     

(4)  
  Global Wealth Management Group business segment activity primarily represents goodwill acquired in connection with Smith Barney and Citi Managed Futures (see Note 3).

(5)  
  Institutional Securities business segment activity primarily represents goodwill disposed of in connection with MSCI (see Note 23).     

(6)  
  The Asset Management business segment amount at December 31, 2009 included approximately $404 million related to Retail Asset Management.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Net Intangible Assets.              Changes in the carrying amount of the Company s intangible assets for 2009, fiscal 2008 and the one month ended
December 31, 2008 were as follows:         

(3)  
  Asset Management business segment activity primarily represents intangible assets related to the Company s consolidation of Crescent.     

(4)  
  Institutional Securities business segment activity primarily represents intangible assets disposed of in connection with the Company s sale of a controlling
interest in a previously consolidated commodities subsidiary.     

(6)  
  Impairment losses recorded within the Institutional Securities business segment primarily related to intellectual property rights. Impairment losses recorded
within the Asset Management business segment primarily related to management contract intangibles.     

(7)  
  Impairment losses are recorded within Other expenses in the consolidated statements of income.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(8)  
  Global Wealth Management Group business segment activity primarily represents intangible assets acquired in connection with Smith Barney and Citi Managed Futures (see
Note 3).     

(9)  
  Institutional Securities business segment activity primarily represents intangible assets disposed of in connection with MSCI, and Asset Management business segment
activity represents intangible assets disposed of in connection with Crescent (see Note 23).     

(10)  
  Impairment losses recorded within the Asset Management business segment related to the disposition of Crescent and are included in discontinued operations.
             Amortizable intangible assets were as follows:

(1)  
  The balances for 2009 include the Company s share of MSSB s amortizable intangible assets.              Amortization expense associated with intangible assets is estimated to be
approximately $343 million per year over the next five years.             8.    Deposits.             Deposits
were as follows:         

(2)  
  Certain time deposit accounts are carried at fair value under the fair value option (see Note 4).              The weighted average interest rates of interest bearing deposits outstanding
during 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008 were 1.3%, 2.1%, 4.0% and 1.3%, respectively.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   As of December 31, 2009, interest bearing deposits maturing over the next five years were as
follows (dollars in millions):         

(1)  
  Amount includes approximately $57 billion of savings deposits, which have no stated maturity and approximately $2 billion of time deposits.              As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the Company had $110
million and $64 million, respectively, of time deposits in denominations of $100,000 or more.             9.    Borrowings.               Commercial Paper and Other Short-Term Borrowings.              The table below summarizes certain information regarding commercial paper and other short-term borrowings:         

(1)  
  Average balances are calculated based upon weekly balances for 2009.     

(2)  
  Average balances are calculated based upon month-end balances for the one month ended December 31, 2008.     

(3)  
  Amounts at December 31, 2008 include commercial paper issued under the Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program ( TLGP ).     

(4)  
  These borrowings included bank loans, bank notes and structured notes with maturities of 12 months or less.     

(5)  
  Certain structured short-term borrowings are carried at fair value under the fair value option. See Note 4 for additional information.                Long-Term Borrowings.                Maturities and Terms.      Long-term borrowings
consisted of the following (dollars in millions):         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(1)  
  Weighted average coupon was calculated utilizing non-U.S. dollar interest rates.     

(2)  
  U.S. dollar contractual floating rate borrowings bear interest based on a variety of money market indices, including London Interbank Offered Rates ( LIBOR )
and Federal Funds rates. Non-U.S. dollar contractual floating rate borrowings bear interest based primarily on Euribor floating rates.     

(3)  
  Amounts include borrowings that are equity linked, credit linked, commodity linked or linked to some other index.     

(4)  
  Amounts include long-term borrowings issued under the TLGP.     

(6)  
  Amounts include a decrease of approximately $1.9 billion as of December 31, 2009 to the carrying amounts of certain of the Company s long-term borrowings for
which the fair value option was elected (see Note 4).              The Company s long-term borrowings included the following components:         
          During 2009, the Company issued notes with a principal amount of approximately $44 billion. The amount included non-U.S. dollar currency notes aggregating approximately $8 billion. These notes include the public issuance of
approximately $30 billion of senior unsecured notes that were not guaranteed by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ). During 2009, approximately $33 billion of notes were repaid.            During fiscal 2008, $56.1 billion of notes were repaid. Included in these
repayments were approximately $12.1 billion of fixed rate and floating-rate long-term debt repurchases by the Company in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 resulting in a gain of approximately $2.3 billion. In connection with these repurchases, the
Company de-designated certain swaps used to hedge the debt. These swaps were no longer considered hedges once the related debt was repurchased by the Company ( i.e ., the swaps were  de-designated  as hedges).            During the one month ended December 31, 2008, the Company issued notes with
a principal amount of approximately $13 billion. The amount included non-U.S. dollar currency notes aggregating approximately $17 million. During the one month ended December 31, 2008, approximately $5.7 billion of notes were repaid.
           Senior debt securities often are denominated in various non-U.S.
dollar currencies and may be structured to provide a return that is equity-linked, credit-linked, commodity-linked or linked to some other index ( e.g.,  the consumer price index). Senior debt also may be structured to be callable by the
Company or extendible at the option of holders of the senior debt securities. Debt containing provisions that effectively allow the holders to put or extend the notes aggregated $63 million as of December 31, 2009 and $160 million as of
December 31, 2008. Subordinated debt and junior subordinated debentures generally are issued to meet the capital requirements of the Company or its regulated subsidiaries and primarily are U.S. dollar denominated.              Senior Debt Structured Borrowings.      The
Company s index-linked, equity-linked or credit-linked borrowings include various structured instruments whose payments and redemption values are linked to the performance of a specific index ( e.g.,  Standard   Poor s 500),
a basket of stocks, a specific equity security, a credit exposure or basket of credit exposures. To minimize the exposure resulting from movements in the underlying index, equity, credit or other position, the Company has entered into various swap
contracts and purchased options that

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
effectively convert the borrowing costs into floating rates based upon LIBOR. These instruments are included in the preceding table at their redemption values based on the performance of the
underlying indices, baskets of stocks, or specific equity securities, credit or other position or index. The Company carries either the entire structured borrowing at fair value or bifurcates the embedded derivative and carries it at fair value. The
swaps and purchased options used to economically hedge the embedded features are derivatives and also are carried at fair value. Changes in fair value related to the notes and economic hedges are reported in Principal transactions trading
revenues.              Subordinated Debt and Junior Subordinated
Debentures   .     Included in the Company s long-term borrowings are subordinated notes (including the Series F notes issued by MS Co. discussed below) of $3,983 million having a contractual weighted average
coupon of 4.78% at December 31, 2009 and $4,342 million having a weighted average coupon of 4.78% at December 31, 2008. Junior subordinated debentures outstanding by the Company were $10,594 million at December 31, 2009 and $10,312
million at December 31, 2008 having a contractual weighted average coupon of 6.17% at December 31, 2009 and 6.17% at December 31, 2008. Maturities of the subordinated and junior subordinated notes range from fiscal 2011 to fiscal
2046. Maturities of certain junior subordinated debentures can be extended to 2067 at the Company s option.            At December 31, 2009, MS Co. had a $25 million 7.82% fixed rate subordinated Series F note outstanding. The note matures in fiscal 2016. The terms
of the note contain restrictive covenants that require, among other things, MS Co. to maintain specified levels of Consolidated Tangible Net Worth and Net Capital, each as defined therein.              Asset and Liability Management.      In general,
securities inventories not financed by secured funding sources and the majority of assets are financed with a combination of short-term funding, floating rate long-term debt or fixed rate long-term debt swapped to a floating rate. Fixed assets are
generally financed with fixed rate long-term debt. The Company uses interest rate swaps to more closely match these borrowings to the duration, holding period and interest rate characteristics of the assets being funded and to manage interest rate
risk. These swaps effectively convert certain of the Company s fixed rate borrowings into floating rate obligations. In addition, for non-U.S. dollar currency borrowings that are not used to fund assets in the same currency, the Company has
entered into currency swaps that effectively convert the borrowings into U.S. dollar obligations. The Company s use of swaps for asset and liability management affected its effective average borrowing rate as follows:         

(1)  
  Included in the weighted average and effective average calculations are non-U.S. dollar interest rates.              Subsequent to December 31, 2009 and through January 31, 2010, the
Company s long-term borrowings (net of repayments) decreased by approximately $0.6 billion.              Other.      The Company, through several of its subsidiaries, maintains funded and unfunded committed credit facilities to support various businesses, including the
collateralized commercial and residential mortgage whole loan, derivative contracts, warehouse lending, emerging market loan, structured product, corporate loan, investment banking and prime brokerage businesses.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     FDIC s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program.              At December 31, 2009, the Company had long-term debt outstanding of $23.8
billion under the TLGP. At December 31, 2008, the Company had commercial paper and long-term debt outstanding of $6.4 billion and $9.8 billion, respectively, under the TLGP. These borrowings are senior unsecured debt obligations of the Company
and guaranteed by the FDIC under the TLGP. The FDIC has concluded that the guarantee is backed by the full faith and credit of the U.S. government.             10.    Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.             The Company trades, makes markets and takes proprietary positions globally in listed futures, OTC swaps, forwards, options and
other derivatives referencing, among other things, interest rates, currencies, investment grade and non-investment grade corporate credits, loans, bonds, U.S. and other sovereign securities, emerging market bonds and loans, credit indices,
asset-backed security indices, property indices, mortgage-related and other asset-backed securities and real estate loan products. The Company uses these instruments for trading, foreign currency exposure management, and asset and liability
management.            The Company manages its trading positions by
employing a variety of risk mitigation strategies. These strategies include diversification of risk exposures and hedging. Hedging activities consist of the purchase or sale of positions in related securities and financial instruments, including a
variety of derivative products ( e.g. , futures, forwards, swaps and options). The Company manages the market risk associated with its trading activities on a Company-wide basis, on a worldwide trading division level and on an individual
product basis.            The Company incurs credit risk as a dealer in OTC
derivatives. Credit risk with respect to derivative instruments arises from the failure of a counterparty to perform according to the terms of the contract. The Company s exposure to credit risk at any point in time is represented by the fair
value of the derivative contracts reported as assets. The fair value of a derivative represents the amount at which the derivative could be exchanged in an orderly transaction between market participants, and is further described in Notes 2 and
4.            In connection with its derivative activities, the Company
generally enters into master netting agreements and collateral arrangements with counterparties. These agreements provide the Company with the ability to offset a counterparty s rights and obligations, request additional collateral when
necessary or liquidate the collateral in the event of counterparty default.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The tables below present a summary by counterparty credit rating and remaining contract maturity of the
fair value of OTC derivatives in a gain position as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Fair value is presented in the final column net of collateral received (principally cash and U.S. government and agency
securities):             OTC Derivative
Products Financial Instruments Owned at December 31, 2009(1)          

(1)  
  Fair values shown represent the Company s net exposure to counterparties related to the Company s OTC derivative products. The table does not include listed
derivatives and the effect of any related hedges utilized by the Company. The table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the Company s lending activities.     

(2)  
  Obligor credit ratings are determined by the Credit Risk Management Department using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies.

(3)  
  Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. Receivable and payable balances with
the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.               OTC Derivative Products Financial Instruments Owned at
December 31, 2008(1)          

(1)  
  Fair values shown represent the Company s net exposure to counterparties related to the Company s OTC derivative products. The table does not include listed
derivatives and the effect of any related hedges utilized by the Company. The table also excludes fair values corresponding to other credit exposures, such as those arising from the Company s lending activities.     

(2)  
  Obligor credit ratings are determined by the Credit Risk Management Department using methodologies generally consistent with those employed by external rating agencies.

(3)  
  Amounts represent the netting of receivable balances with payable balances for the same counterparty across maturity categories. Receivable and payable balances with
the same counterparty in the same maturity category are netted within such maturity category, where appropriate. Cash collateral received is netted on a counterparty basis, provided legal right of offset exists.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Hedge Accounting.              The Company applies hedge accounting using various derivative financial instruments and non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt used
to hedge interest rate and foreign exchange risk arising from assets and liabilities not held at fair value as part of asset and liability management and foreign currency exposure management.            The Company s hedges are designated and qualify for accounting purposes as
one of the following types of hedges: hedges of changes in fair value of assets and liabilities due to the risk being hedged (fair value hedges) and hedges of net investments in foreign operations whose functional currency is different from the
reporting currency of the parent company (net investment hedges).            For all hedges where hedge accounting is being applied, effectiveness testing and other procedures to ensure the ongoing validity of the hedges are performed at least monthly.              Fair Value Hedges Interest Rate Risk   .     The Company s designated fair value
hedges consisted primarily of interest rate swaps designated as fair value hedges of changes in the benchmark interest rate of fixed rate senior long-term borrowings. The Company uses regression analysis to perform an ongoing prospective and
retrospective assessment of the effectiveness of these hedging relationships ( i.e. , the Company applies the  long-haul  method of hedge accounting). A hedging relationship is deemed effective if the fair values of the hedging
instrument (derivative) and the hedged item (debt liability) change inversely within a range of 80% to 125%. The Company considers the impact of valuation adjustments related to the Company s own credit spreads and counterparty credit spreads
to determine whether they would cause the hedging relationship to be ineffective.            For qualifying fair value hedges of benchmark interest rates, the changes in the fair value of the derivative and the changes in the fair value of the hedged liability provide offset of one another and,
together with any resulting ineffectiveness, are recorded in Interest expense. When a derivative is de-designated as a hedge, any basis adjustment remaining on the hedged liability is amortized to Interest expense over the remaining life of the
liability using the effective interest method.              Net
Investment Hedges   .     The Company may utilize forward foreign exchange contracts and non-U.S. dollar-denominated debt to manage the currency exposure relating to its net investments in non-U.S. dollar functional
currency operations. No hedge ineffectiveness is recognized in earnings since the notional amounts of the hedging instruments equal the portion of the investments being hedged, and, where forward contracts are used, the currencies being exchanged
are the functional currencies of the parent and investee; where debt instruments are used as hedges, they are denominated in the functional currency of the investee. The gain or loss from revaluing hedges of net investments in foreign operations at
the spot rate is deferred and reported within Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) in Equity, net of tax effects. The forward points on the hedging instruments are recorded in Interest and dividend revenues.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following tables summarize the fair value of derivative instruments designated as accounting hedges
and the fair value of derivative instruments not designated as accounting hedges by type of derivative contract on a gross basis as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. Fair values of derivative contracts in an asset position are
included in Financial instruments owned derivative and other contracts. Fair values of derivative contracts in a liability position are reflected in Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased derivative and other contracts.   

(1)  
  Notional amounts include net notionals related to long and short futures contracts of $434 billion and $696 billion, respectively. The variation margin on these futures
contracts (excluded from the table above) of $601 million and $27 million is included in Receivables brokers, dealers and clearing organizations and Payables brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, respectively, on the consolidated
statements of financial condition.                 

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(1)  
  The notional amount for foreign currency debt instruments designated as net investment hedges represents the principal amount at current exchange rates.

(2)  
  Notional amounts include net notionals related to long and short futures contracts of $247 billion and $717 billion, respectively. The variation margin on these futures
contracts (excluded from the table above) of $1,927 million and $77 million is included in Receivables brokers, dealers and clearing organizations and Payables brokers, dealers and clearing organizations, respectively, on the consolidated
statements of financial condition.              The following
tables summarize the gains or losses reported on derivative instruments designated and qualifying as accounting hedges for 2009 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively.             Derivatives Designated as Fair Value Hedges.             The following table presents gains (losses) reported on derivative instruments
and the related hedge item as well as the hedge ineffectiveness included in Interest expense in the consolidated statements of income from interest rate contracts:         
          In addition, a gain of $17 million during fiscal
2008 and a gain of $132 million during fiscal 2007 were recognized in income related to hedge ineffectiveness.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
          Derivatives Designated
as Net Investment Hedges.          

(1)  
  No gains (losses) related to net investment hedges were reclassified from Other comprehensive income ( OCI ) into income during 2009 and the one month ended
December 31, 2008, respectively.     

(2)  
  A loss of $6 million and a loss of $17 million were recognized in income related to amounts excluded from hedge effectiveness testing during 2009 and the one month
ended December 31, 2008, respectively. In addition, the amount excluded from the assessment of hedge effectiveness for fiscal 2008 was not material.         
     The table below summarizes gains (losses) on derivative instruments not designated as accounting hedges for 2009 and the one month ended
December 31, 2008, respectively:         

(1)  
  Gains (losses) on derivative contracts not designated as hedges are primarily included in Principal transactions trading.     

(2)  
  Gains (losses) associated with derivative contracts that have physically settled are excluded from the table above. Gains (losses) on these contracts are reflected with
the associated cash instruments, which are also included in Principal transactions trading.              The Company also has certain embedded derivatives that have been bifurcated from the related structured borrowings. Such derivatives are classified in Long-term borrowings and had a net fair value of $110
million and $269 million, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, and a notional of $3,442 million and $4,601 million, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. The Company recognized
losses of $76 million and $97 million related to changes in the fair value of its bifurcated embedded derivatives for 2009 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively.            As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the amount of payables associated with cash collateral received that
was netted against derivative assets was $62.7 billion and $88.1 billion, respectively. The amount of receivables in respect of cash collateral paid that was netted against derivative liabilities was $31.7 billion and $50.9 billion, respectively.
Cash collateral receivables and payables of $62 million and $227 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2009, and $1.3 billion and $92 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2008, were not offset against certain contracts that did
not meet the definition of a derivative.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Credit-Risk-Related Contingencies.              In connection with certain OTC trading agreements, the Company may be required
to provide additional collateral or immediately settle any outstanding liability balances with certain counterparties in the event of a credit ratings downgrade. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the aggregate fair value of
derivative contracts that contain credit-risk-related contingent features that are in a net liability position totaled $23,052 million and $39,871 million, respectively, for which the Company has posted collateral of $20,607 million and $31,779
million, respectively, in the normal course of business. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the amount of additional collateral or termination payments that could be called by counterparties under the terms of such agreements
in the event of a one-notch downgrade of the Company s long-term credit rating was approximately $717 million and $928 million, respectively. Additional collateral or termination payments of approximately $975 million and $1,898 million
could be called by counterparties in the event of a two-notch downgrade, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Of these amounts, $1,203 million and $1,738 million, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31,
2008, respectively, related to bilateral arrangements between the Company and other parties where upon the downgrade of one party, the downgraded party must deliver incremental collateral to the other party. These bilateral downgrade arrangements
are a risk management tool used extensively by the Company as credit exposures are reduced if counterparties are downgraded.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Credit Derivatives and Other Credit Contracts.              The Company enters into credit derivatives, principally through credit default
swaps, under which it provides counterparties protection against the risk of default on a set of debt obligations issued by a specified reference entity or entities. A majority of the Company s counterparties are banks, broker-dealers,
insurance and other financial institutions, and monoline insurers. The table below summarizes certain information regarding protection sold through credit default swaps and credit-linked notes as of December 31, 2009:         

(1)  
  Fair value amounts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting.     

(2)  
  Fair value amounts of certain credit default swaps where the Company sold protection have an asset carrying value because credit spreads of the underlying reference
entity or entities tightened during 2009.     

(3)  
  Other credit contracts are credit default swaps that are considered hybrid instruments.     

(4)  
  Fair value amount shown represents the fair value of the hybrid instruments.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The table below summarizes certain information regarding protection sold through credit default swaps
and credit-linked notes as of December 31, 2008:         

(1)  
  Fair value amounts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting.     

(2)  
  Other credit contracts are credit default swaps that are considered hybrid instruments.     

(3)  
  Fair value amount shown represents the fair value of the hybrid instruments.         
       Single Name Credit Default Swaps.      A credit default swap protects the buyer against the loss of principal
on a bond or loan in case of a default by the issuer. The protection buyer pays a periodic premium (generally quarterly) over the life of the contract and is protected for the period. The Company in turn will have to perform under a credit default
swap if a credit event as defined under the contract occurs. Typical credit events include bankruptcy, dissolution or insolvency of the referenced entity, failure to pay and restructuring of the obligations of the referenced entity. In order to
provide an indication of the current payment status or performance risk of the credit default swaps, the external credit ratings, primarily Moody s credit ratings, of the underlying reference entity of the credit default swaps are disclosed.
             Index and Basket Credit Default
Swaps.      Index and basket credit default swaps are credit default swaps that reference multiple names through underlying baskets or portfolios of single name credit default swaps. Generally, in the event of a default on
one of the underlying names, the Company will have to pay a pro rata portion of the total notional amount of the credit default index or basket contract. In order to provide an indication of the current payment status or performance risk of these
credit default swaps, the weighted average external credit ratings, primarily Moody s credit ratings, of the underlying reference entities comprising the basket or index were calculated and disclosed.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The Company also enters into index and basket credit default swaps where the credit protection provided
is based upon the application of tranching techniques. In tranched transactions, the credit risk of an index or basket is separated into various portions of the capital structure, with different levels of subordination. The most junior tranches
cover initial defaults, and once losses exceed the notional of the tranche, they are passed on to the next most senior tranche in the capital structure. As external credit ratings are not always available for tranched indices and baskets, credit
ratings were determined based upon an internal methodology.              Credit Protection Sold Through CLNs.      The Company has invested in CLNs, which are hybrid instruments containing embedded derivatives, in which credit protection has been sold to the issuer of the note. If
there is a credit event of a reference entity underlying the CLN, the principal balance of the note may not be repaid in full to the Company.              Purchased Credit Protection.      For single name credit default swaps and non-tranched index and basket credit default
swaps, the Company has purchased protection with a notional amount of approximately $1.9 trillion and $2.7 trillion as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, compared with a notional amount of approximately $2.1 trillion
and $3.0 trillion, as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, of credit protection sold with identical underlying reference obligations. In order to identify purchased protection with the same underlying reference
obligations, the notional amount for individual reference obligations within non-tranched indices and baskets was determined on a pro rata basis and matched off against single name and non-tranched index and basket credit default swaps where credit
protection was sold with identical underlying reference obligations. The Company may also purchase credit protection to economically hedge loans and lending commitments. In total, not considering whether the underlying reference obligations are
identical, the Company has purchased credit protection of $2.5 trillion with a positive fair value of $65 billion compared with $2.4 trillion of credit protection sold with a negative fair value of $44 billion as of December 31, 2009. In
total, not considering whether the underlying reference obligations are identical, the Company has purchased credit protection of $3.7 trillion with a positive fair value of $458 billion compared with $3.6 trillion of credit protection sold with a
negative fair value of $430 billion as of December 31, 2008.            The purchase of credit protection does not represent the sole manner in which the Company risk manages its exposure to credit derivatives. The Company manages its exposure to these derivative contracts through a variety of risk mitigation
strategies, which include managing the credit and correlation risk across single name, non-tranched indices and baskets, tranched indices and baskets, and cash positions. Aggregate market risk limits have been established for credit derivatives, and
market risk measures are routinely monitored against these limits. The Company may also recover amounts on the underlying reference obligation delivered to the Company under credit default swaps where credit protection was sold.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    11.    Commitments, Guarantees and Contingencies.               Commitments.              The Company s commitments associated with outstanding letters of credit
and other financial guarantees obtained to satisfy collateral requirements, investment activities, corporate lending and financing arrangements, mortgage lending and margin lending as of December 31, 2009 are summarized below by period of
expiration. Since commitments associated with these instruments may expire unused, the amounts shown do not necessarily reflect the actual future cash funding requirements:         

(1)  
  These commitments are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of
financial condition (see Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements).     

(2)  
  This amount includes commitments to asset-backed commercial paper conduits of $276 million as of December 31, 2009, of which $268 million have maturities of
less than one year and $8 million of which have maturities of one to three years.     

(3)  
  The Company enters into forward starting securities purchased under agreements to resell (agreements that have a trade date as of or prior to December 31, 2009 and
settle subsequent to period-end.) These agreements primarily settle within three business days and as of December 31, 2009, $26.6 billion of the $30.2 billion settled within three business days.     

(4)  
  Amount includes a $200 million lending facility to a real estate fund sponsored by the Company.              Letters of Credit and Other Financial Guarantees Obtained to Satisfy
Collateral Requirements .    The Company has outstanding letters of credit and other financial guarantees issued by third-party banks to certain of the Company s counterparties. The Company is contingently liable for
these letters of credit and other financial guarantees, which are primarily used to provide collateral for securities and commodities borrowed and to satisfy various margin requirements in lieu of depositing cash or securities with these
counterparties.             Investment
Activities.     The Company enters into commitments associated with its real estate, private equity and principal investment activities, which include alternative products.             Lending Commitments.     Primary lending commitments
are those which are originated by the Company whereas secondary lending commitments are purchased from third parties in the market. The commitments include lending commitments that are made to investment grade and non-investment grade companies in
connection with corporate lending and other business activities.             Commitments for Secured Lending Transactions.     Secured lending commitments are extended by the Company to companies and are secured by real estate or other physical assets of the borrower. Loans made under these
arrangements typically are at variable rates and generally provide for over-collateralization based upon the creditworthiness of the borrower.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Forward Starting Reverse Repurchase Agreements .    The Company has entered
into forward starting securities purchased under agreements to resell (agreements that have a trade date as of or prior to December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, and settle subsequent to period-end) that are primarily
secured by collateral from U.S. government agency securities and other sovereign government obligations.             Commercial and Residential Mortgage-Related Commitments.     The Company enters into forward purchase contracts involving residential mortgage loans, residential mortgage lending
commitments to individuals and residential home equity lines of credit. In addition, the Company enters into commitments to originate commercial and residential mortgage loans.             Underwriting Commitments .    The Company provides underwriting commitments in connection with its
capital raising sources to a diverse group of corporate and other institutional clients.               Other Commitments .    Other commitments include a binding contingent lending commitment on behalf of a client in connection with the Company s Institutional Securities
business segment. Other commitments generally include commercial lending commitments to small businesses and commitments related to securities-based lending activities in connection with the Company s Global Wealth Management Group business
segment.            The Company sponsors several nonconsolidated investment
funds for third-party investors where the Company typically acts as general partner of, and investment adviser to, these funds and typically commits to invest a minority of the capital of such funds with subscribing third-party investors
contributing the majority. The Company s employees, including its senior officers, as well as the Company s directors may participate on the same terms and conditions as other investors in certain of these funds that the Company forms
primarily for client investment, except that the Company may waive or lower applicable fees and charges for its employees. The Company has contractual capital commitments, guarantees, lending facilities and counterparty arrangements with
respect to these investment funds.             Premises and
Equipment.     The Company has non-cancelable operating leases covering premises and equipment (excluding commodities operating leases, shown separately). As of December 31, 2009, future minimum rental commitments under
such leases (net of subleases, principally on office rentals) were as follows (dollars in millions):         
          The total of minimum rentals to be received in the future under non-cancelable operating subleases as of December 31, 2009 was $112 million.            Occupancy lease agreements, in addition to base rentals, generally provide for
rent and operating expense escalations resulting from increased assessments for real estate taxes and other charges. Total rent expense, net of sublease rental income, was $707 million, $619 million, $599 million and $56 million in 2009, fiscal
2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   In connection with its commodities business, the Company enters into operating leases for both crude oil
and refined products storage and for vessel charters. These operating leases are integral parts of the Company s commodities risk management business. As of December 31, 2009, future minimum rental commitments under such leases were as
follows (dollars in millions):         
            Guarantees.              The table below summarizes certain information regarding the Company s obligations under guarantee arrangements as of December 31, 2009:         

(1)  
  Carrying amount of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting. For further information on derivative contracts see
Note 10.     

(2)  
  Amounts include a guarantee to investors in undivided participating interests in claims the Company made against a derivative counterparty that filed for bankruptcy
protection. To the extent, in the future, any portion of the claims is disallowed or reduced by the bankruptcy court in excess of a certain amount, then the Company must refund a portion of the purchase price plus interest. For further information
see Note 16 to the consolidated financial statements.     

(3)  
  Approximately $2.0 billion of standby letters of credit are also reflected in the  Commitments  table above in primary and secondary lending commitments.
Standby letters of credit are recorded at fair value within Financial instruments owned or Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased in the consolidated statements of financial condition.     

(4)  
  Amounts include guarantees issued by consolidated real estate funds sponsored by the Company of approximately $2.0 billion. These guarantees relate to obligations of
the fund s investee entities, including guarantees related to capital expenditures and principal and interest debt payments. Accrued losses under these guarantees of approximately $1.1 billion are reflected as a reduction of the carrying value
of the related fund investments, which are reflected in Financial instruments owned investments on the consolidated statement of financial condition.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The table below summarizes certain information regarding the Company s obligations under guarantee
arrangements as of December 31, 2008:         

(1)  
  Carrying amount of derivative contracts are shown on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting. For further information on derivative contracts,
see Note 10.              The Company has obligations under
certain guarantee arrangements, including contracts and indemnification agreements that contingently require a guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on changes in an underlying measure (such as an interest or foreign exchange
rate, security or commodity price, an index or the occurrence or non-occurrence of a specified event) related to an asset, liability or equity security of a guaranteed party. Also included as guarantees are contracts that contingently require the
guarantor to make payments to the guaranteed party based on another entity s failure to perform under an agreement, as well as indirect guarantees of the indebtedness of others. The Company s use of guarantees is described below by type of
guarantee:             Derivative
Contracts.     Certain derivative contracts meet the accounting definition of a guarantee, including certain written options, contingent forward contracts and credit default swaps (see Note 10 regarding credit derivatives in
which the Company has sold credit protection to the counterparty). Although the Company s derivative arrangements do not specifically identify whether the derivative counterparty retains the underlying asset, liability or equity security, the
Company has disclosed information regarding all derivative contracts that could meet the accounting definition of a guarantee. The maximum potential payout for certain derivative contracts, such as written interest rate caps and written foreign
currency options, cannot be estimated, as increases in interest or foreign exchange rates in the future could possibly be unlimited. Therefore, in order to provide information regarding the maximum potential amount of future payments that the
Company could be required to make under certain derivative contracts, the notional amount of the contracts has been disclosed. In certain situations, collateral may be held by the Company for those contracts that meet the definition of a guarantee.
Generally, the Company sets collateral requirements by counterparty so that the collateral covers various transactions and products and is not allocated specifically to individual contracts. Also, the Company may recover amounts related to the
underlying asset delivered to the Company under the derivative contract.            The Company records all derivative contracts at fair value. Aggregate market risk limits have been established, and market risk measures are routinely monitored against these limits. The Company also manages its exposure to these derivative
contracts through a variety of risk mitigation strategies, including, but not limited to, entering into offsetting economic hedge positions. The Company believes that the notional amounts of the derivative contracts generally overstate its exposure.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Standby Letters of Credit and other Financial Guarantees Issued.     In
connection with its corporate lending business and other corporate activities, the Company provides standby letters of credit and other financial guarantees to counterparties. Such arrangements represent obligations to make payments to third parties
if the counterparty fails to fulfill its obligation under a borrowing arrangement or other contractual obligation. A majority of the Company s standby letters of credit is provided on behalf of counterparties that are investment grade.
            Market Value Guarantees.     Market
value guarantees are issued to guarantee timely payment of a specified return to investors in certain affordable housing tax credit funds. These guarantees are designed to return an investor s contribution to a fund and the investor s
share of tax losses and tax credits expected to be generated by a fund. From time to time, the Company may also guarantee return of principal invested, potentially including a specified rate of return, to fund investors.             Liquidity Facilities.     The Company has entered into
liquidity facilities with SPEs and other counterparties, whereby the Company is required to make certain payments if losses or defaults occur. Primarily, the Company acts as liquidity provider to municipal bond securitization SPEs and for standalone
municipal bonds in which the holders of beneficial interests issued by these SPEs or the holders of the individual bonds, respectively, have the right to tender their interests for purchase by the Company on specified dates at a specified price. The
Company often may have recourse to the underlying assets held by the SPEs in the event payments are required under such liquidity facilities as well as make-whole or recourse provisions with the trust sponsors. Primarily all of the underlying assets
in the SPEs are investment grade.             Whole loan sale
  guarantees.     The Company provides representations and warranties that certain assets sold as whole loans conform to specified guidelines. The Company may be required to repurchase such assets or indemnify the
purchaser against losses if the assets do not meet certain conforming guidelines. Due diligence is performed by the Company to ensure that asset guideline qualifications are met, and, to the extent the Company has acquired such assets from other
parties, the Company seeks to obtain its own representations and warranties regarding the assets. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make would be equal to the current outstanding balances of assets
transferred by the Company that are subject to its representations and warranties.             General Partner Guarantees.     As a general partner in certain private equity and real estate partnerships, the Company receives distributions from the partnerships according to
the provisions of the partnership agreements. The Company may, from time to time, be required to return all or a portion of such distributions to the limited partners in the event the limited partners do not achieve a certain return as specified in
various partnership agreements, subject to certain limitations.             ARS Guarantees.     Under the terms of various agreements entered into with government agencies and the terms of the Company s announced offer to repurchase, the Company agreed to repurchase at par certain ARS
held by retail clients that were purchased through the Company. In addition, the Company agreed to reimburse retail clients who have sold certain ARS purchased through the Company at a loss. The Company s maximum exposure as it relates to these
repurchase obligations was based on the Company s best estimate of the outstanding ARS eligible under the repurchase program. At December 31, 2008, the Company recorded a liability at fair value related to these ARS purchase obligations.
The Company had no ARS purchase obligation at December 31, 2009.             Other Guarantees and Indemnities.             In the normal
course of business, the Company provides guarantees and indemnifications in a variety of commercial transactions. These provisions generally are standard contractual terms. Certain of these guarantees and indemnifications are described below.

Trust Preferred Securities .    The Company has established Morgan Stanley Capital Trusts for the limited purpose of
issuing trust preferred securities to third parties and lending the proceeds to the Company in

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

exchange for junior subordinated debentures. The Company has directly guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the holders thereof to the extent that the Company has made
payments to a Morgan Stanley Capital Trust on the junior subordinated debentures. In the event that the Company does not make payments to a Morgan Stanley Capital Trust, holders of such series of trust preferred securities would not be able to rely
upon the guarantee for payment of those amounts. The Company has not recorded any liability in the consolidated financial statements for these guarantees and believes that the occurrence of any events ( i.e. , non-performance on the part of the
paying agent) that would trigger payments under these contracts is remote. See Note 13 for details on the Company s junior subordinated debentures.          

Indemnities .    The Company provides standard indemnities to counterparties for certain contingent exposures and taxes,
including U.S. and foreign withholding taxes, on interest and other payments made on derivatives, securities and stock lending transactions, certain annuity products and other financial arrangements. These indemnity payments could be required based
on a change in the tax laws or change in interpretation of applicable tax rulings or a change in factual circumstances. Certain contracts contain provisions that enable the Company to terminate the agreement upon the occurrence of such events. The
maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make under these indemnifications cannot be estimated. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the consolidated financial statements for these
indemnifications and believes that the occurrence of any events that would trigger payments under these contracts is remote.            

Exchange/Clearinghouse Member Guarantees .    The Company is a member of various U.S. and non-U.S. exchanges and
clearinghouses that trade and clear securities and/or derivative contracts. Associated with its membership, the Company may be required to pay a proportionate share of the financial obligations of another member who may default on its obligations to
the exchange or the clearinghouse. While the rules governing different exchange or clearinghouse memberships vary, in general the Company s guarantee obligations would arise only if the exchange or clearinghouse had previously exhausted its
resources. The maximum potential payout under these membership agreements cannot be estimated. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the consolidated financial statements for these agreements and believes that any potential
requirement to make payments under these agreements is remote.            

Guarantees on Securitized Assets.     As part of the Company s Institutional Securities securitization and related
activities, the Company provides representations and warranties that certain assets transferred in securitization transactions conform to specified guidelines. The Company may be required to repurchase such assets or indemnify the purchaser against
losses if the assets do not meet certain conforming guidelines. Due diligence is performed by the Company to ensure that asset guideline qualifications are met, and, to the extent the Company has acquired such assets from other parties, the Company
seeks to obtain its own representations and warranties regarding the assets. In many securitization transactions, some, but not all, of the original asset sellers provide the representations and warranties directly to the purchaser, and the Company
makes representations and warranties only with respect to other assets. The maximum potential amount of future payments the Company could be required to make would be equal to the current outstanding balances of assets transferred by the Company
that are subject to its representations and warranties. The Company has not provided any contingent liability in the consolidated financial statements for representations and warranties made in connection with securitization transactions, and it
believes that the probability of any payments under those arrangements is remote.            

Merger and Acquisition Guarantees .    The Company may, from time to time, in its role as investment banking advisor be
required to provide guarantees in connection with certain European merger and acquisition transactions. If required by the regulating authorities, the Company provides a guarantee that the acquirer in the merger and acquisition transaction has or
will have sufficient funds to complete the transaction and would then be required to make the acquisition payments in the event the acquirer s funds are insufficient at the completion date of the transaction. These arrangements generally cover
the time

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

frame from the transaction offer date to its closing date and, therefore, are generally short term in nature. The maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to
make cannot be estimated. The Company believes the likelihood of any payment by the Company under these arrangements is remote given the level of the Company s due diligence associated with its role as investment banking advisor.

Guarantees on Morgan Stanley Stable Value Program .    On September 30, 2009, the Company entered into an agreement with
the investment manager for the Stable Value Program ( SVP ), a fund within the Company s 401(k) plan, and certain other third parties. Under the agreement, the Company contributed $20 million to the SVP
on October 15, 2009. The Company recorded the contribution in Compensation and benefits expense on the consolidated statement of income for 2009. Additionally, the Company may have a future obligation to make
a payment of $40 million to the SVP following the third anniversary of the agreement, after which the SVP would be wound down over a period of time. The future obligation is contingent upon whether the market-to-book value ratio of the
portion of the SVP that is subject to certain book-value stabilizing contracts has fallen below a specific threshold and the Company and the other parties to the agreement all decline to make payments to restore the SVP to such
threshold as of the third anniversary of the agreement. The Company has not recorded a liability for this guarantee in the consolidated financial statements.               In the ordinary course of business, the Company guarantees the debt and/or certain trading obligations (including obligations
associated with derivatives, foreign exchange contracts and the settlement of physical commodities) of certain subsidiaries. These guarantees generally are entity or product specific and are required by investors or trading counterparties. The
activities of the subsidiaries covered by these guarantees (including any related debt or trading obligations) are included in the Company s consolidated financial statements.              Contingencies.               Legal.     In the normal course of business, the Company has been named, from time to time, as a defendant in various legal
actions, including arbitrations, class actions and other litigation, arising in connection with its activities as a global diversified financial services institution. Certain of the actual or threatened legal actions include claims for substantial
compensatory and/or punitive damages or claims for indeterminate amounts of damages. In some cases, the issuers that would otherwise be the primary defendants in such cases are bankrupt or are in financial distress.            The Company is also involved, from time to time, in other reviews,
investigations and proceedings (both formal and informal) by governmental and self-regulatory agencies regarding the Company s business, including, among other matters, accounting and operational matters, certain of which may result in adverse
judgments, settlements, fines, penalties, injunctions or other relief.            The Company contests liability and/or the amount of damages as appropriate in each pending matter. In view of the inherent difficulty of predicting the outcome of such matters, particularly in cases where claimants seek substantial or
indeterminate damages or where investigations and proceedings are in the early stages, the Company cannot predict with certainty the loss or range of loss, if any, related to such matters; how or if such matters will be resolved; when they will
ultimately be resolved; or what the eventual settlement, fine, penalty or other relief, if any, might be. Subject to the foregoing, the Company believes, based on current knowledge and after consultation with counsel, that the outcome of such
pending matters will not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated statement of financial condition of the Company, although the outcome of such matters could be material to the Company s operating results and cash flows for a
particular future period, depending on, among other things, the level of the Company s revenues, income or cash flows for such period. Legal reserves have been established in accordance with the requirements for accounting for contingencies.
Once established, reserves are adjusted when there is more information available or when an event occurs requiring a change.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    12.    Regulatory Requirements.              Morgan Stanley.     In September 2008, the Company
became a financial holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act subject to the regulation and oversight of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the  Fed ). The Fed establishes capital requirements for the Company,
including well-capitalized standards, and evaluates the Company s compliance with such capital requirements. The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Office of Thrift Supervision establish similar capital requirements and standards
for the Company s national banks and federal savings bank, respectively.            The Company calculates its capital ratios and risk-weighted assets ( RWAs ) in accordance with the capital adequacy standards for financial holding companies adopted by the Fed. These standards
are based upon a framework described in the  International Convergence of Capital Measurement and Capital Standards,  July 1988, as amended, also referred to as Basel I. In December 2007, the U.S. banking regulators published a final Basel
II Accord that requires internationally active banking organizations, as well as certain of its U.S. bank subsidiaries, to implement Basel II standards over the next several years. The Company will be required to implement these Basel II
standards as a result of becoming a financial holding company.            As
of December 31, 2009, the Company was in compliance with Basel I capital requirements with ratios of Tier 1 capital to RWAs of 15.3% and total capital to RWAs of 16.4% (6% and 10% being well-capitalized for regulatory purposes, respectively).
In addition, financial holding companies are also subject to a Tier 1 leverage ratio as defined by the Fed. The Company calculated its Tier 1 leverage ratio as Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets (which reflects adjustments for
disallowed goodwill, certain intangible assets and deferred tax assets). The adjusted average total assets are derived using weekly balances for the calendar quarter. This ratio as of December 31, 2009 was 5.8%.            The following table summarizes the capital measures for the Company at
December 31, 2009:         
           The Company s Significant U.S. Bank Operating Subsidiaries.     The Company s domestic bank operating subsidiaries are subject to various regulatory capital
requirements as administered by U.S. federal banking agencies. Failure to meet minimum capital requirements can initiate certain mandatory, and possibly additional, discretionary actions by regulators that, if undertaken, could have a direct
material effect on the Company s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries  financial statements. Under capital adequacy guidelines and the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action, the Company s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries must
meet specific capital guidelines that involve quantitative measures of the Company s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries  assets, liabilities and certain off-balance sheet items as calculated under regulatory accounting practices.   
        As of December 31, 2009, the Company s U.S. bank operating
subsidiaries met all capital adequacy requirements to which they are subject.            As of December 31, 2009, the Company s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries exceeded all regulatorily mandated and targeted minimum regulatory capital requirements to be well-capitalized. There are
no conditions or events that management believes have changed the Company s U.S. bank operating subsidiaries  category.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The table below sets forth the Company s significant U.S. bank operating subsidiaries  capital
as of December 31, 2009.         
          Under regulatory capital requirements adopted by the U.S. federal banking agencies, U.S. depository institutions, in order to be considered well-capitalized, must maintain a capital ratio of
Tier 1 capital to RWAs of 6%, a ratio of total capital to RWAs of 10%, and a ratio of Tier 1 capital to average book assets (leverage ratio) of 5%. Each U.S. depository institution subsidiary of the Company must be
well-capitalized in order for the Company to continue to qualify as a financial holding company and to continue to engage in the broadest range of financial activities permitted to financial holding companies. As of December 31,
2009, the Company s three U.S. depository institutions maintained capital at levels in excess of the universally mandated well-capitalized levels. These subsidiary depository institutions maintain capital at levels sufficiently
in excess of the  well-capitalized  requirements to address any additional capital needs and requirements identified by the federal banking regulators.             MS Co. and Other Broker-Dealers.     MS Co. is a registered broker-dealer and registered
futures commission merchant and, accordingly, is subject to the minimum net capital requirements of the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority and the Commodity Futures Trading Commission. MS Co. has consistently operated with capital
in excess of its regulatory capital requirements. MS Co. s net capital totaled $7,854 million and $9,216 million as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively, which exceeded the amount required by $6,758 million and
$8,366 million, respectively. Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC is a registered broker-dealer and registered futures commission merchant, introducing business to MS Co. and Citi, and has operated with capital in excess of its regulatory capital
requirements. MSIP, a London-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial Services Authority, and MSJS, a Tokyo-based broker-dealer subsidiary, is subject to the capital requirements of the Financial
Services Agency. MSIP and MSJS have consistently operated in excess of their respective regulatory capital requirements.            MS Co. is required to hold tentative net capital in excess of $1 billion and net capital in excess of $500 million in accordance with the market and
credit risk standards of Appendix E of Rule 15c3-1. MS Co. is also required to notify the SEC in the event that its tentative net capital is less than $5 billion. As of December 31, 2009, MS Co. had tentative net capital in excess of
the minimum and the notification requirements.             Other Regulated
Subsidiaries.     Certain other U.S. and non-U.S. subsidiaries are subject to various securities, commodities and banking regulations, and capital adequacy requirements promulgated by the regulatory and exchange authorities of
the countries in which they operate. These subsidiaries have consistently operated in excess of their local capital adequacy requirements.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc. ( MSDP ), a derivative products subsidiary rated Aa2
by Moody s Investors Service, Inc. ( Moody s ) and AAA by Standard   Poor s Ratings Services, a Division of the McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. ( S P )  , maintains certain operating restrictions that have
been reviewed by Moody s and S P. On December 21, 2009, MSDP was downgraded from a triple-A rating to Aa2 rating by Moody s but maintained its AAA rating by S P. The downgrade did not significantly impact the Company s
results of operations or financial condition. MSDP is operated such that creditors of the Company should not expect to have any claims on the assets of MSDP, unless and until the obligations to its own creditors are satisfied in full. Creditors of
MSDP should not expect to have any claims on the assets of the Company or any of its affiliates, other than the respective assets of MSDP.            The regulatory capital requirements referred to above, and certain covenants contained in various agreements governing indebtedness of the Company, may
restrict the Company s ability to withdraw capital from its subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, approximately $14.7 billion and $13.6 billion, respectively, of net assets of consolidated subsidiaries may be
restricted as to the payment of cash dividends and advances to the parent company.             13.    Total Equity.              Morgan Stanley Shareholders  Equity.               Common Stock.      Changes in shares of common stock outstanding for 2009, fiscal 2008 and the one month ended December 31, 2008 were as follows (share data in
millions):         

(1)  
  Treasury stock purchases includes repurchases of common stock for employee tax withholding.                Treasury Shares.      In December 2006, the Company announced that its Board of Directors had
authorized the repurchase of up to $6 billion of the Company s outstanding common stock. The share repurchase program considers, among other things, business segment capital needs, as well as equity-based compensation and benefit plan
requirements. During 2009 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, the Company did not purchase any of its common stock as part of its share repurchase program. During fiscal 2008, the Company repurchased $711 million of the common stock
as part of the share repurchase program at an average cost of $18.14 per share. As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $1.6 billion remaining under its current share repurchase authorization. Share repurchases by the Company are
subject to regulatory approval.              CIC
Investment.      In December 2007, the Company sold Equity Units that included contracts to purchase Company common stock (see  Stock Purchase Contracts  herein) to a wholly owned subsidiary of CIC for
approximately $5,579 million. As a result of the transaction with Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. ( MUFG ) described under  Stock Purchase Contracts  below, upon settlement of the Equity Units, CIC will be entitled to
receive 116,062,911 shares of the Company s common stock, subject to anti-dilution adjustments. In

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
June 2009, to maintain its pro rata share in the Company s share capital, CIC participated in the Company s registered public offering of 85,890,277 shares by purchasing 45,290,576
shares of the Company s common stock. CIC is a passive financial investor and has no special rights of ownership nor a role in the management of the Company. A substantial portion of the investment proceeds from the offering of the Equity Units
was treated as Tier 1 capital for regulatory capital purposes.            As
described below, the Equity Units consist of interests in trust preferred securities issued by Morgan Stanley Capital Trust A ( Series A Trust ), Morgan Stanley Capital Trust B ( Series B Trust ) or Morgan Stanley Capital Trust C
( Series C Trust ) (each a  Morgan Stanley Capital Trust  and, collectively, the  Trusts ) and stock purchase contracts issued by the Company. The only assets held by the Trusts are junior subordinated debentures issued
by the parent company.             Equity Units.             Each Equity Unit has a stated amount of $1,000 per unit consisting of:

(i)  
  an undivided beneficial ownership interest in a trust preferred security of Series A Trust, Series B Trust or Series C Trust with an initial liquidation amount of
$1,000; and           

(ii)  
  a stock purchase contract relating to the common stock, par value of $0.01 per share, of the Company.               Junior Subordinated Debentures Issued to Support Trust Common and Trust
Preferred Securities.             In the first quarter of fiscal 2008,
the Company issued junior subordinated debt securities due no later than February 17, 2042 for a total of $5,579,173,000 in exchange for $5,579,143,000 in aggregate proceeds from the sale of the trust preferred securities by the Trusts and
$30,000 in trust common securities issued equally by the Trusts. The Company elected to fair value the junior subordinated debentures pursuant to the fair value option accounting guidance. The common and trust preferred securities of the Trusts,
totaling approximately $5,579 million, represent undivided beneficial ownership interests in the assets of the Trusts, have no stated maturity and must be redeemed upon the redemption or maturity of the corresponding series of junior subordinated
debt securities the sole assets of the respective Trusts. The Trusts will make quarterly distributions on the trust common and trust preferred securities at an annual rate of 6%.            The trust common securities, which are held by the Company, represent an interest in the Trusts and are recorded as an equity
method investment in the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition. The Trusts are VIEs in accordance with current accounting guidance, and the Company does not consolidate its interests in the Trusts as it is not the primary
beneficiary of any of the Trusts.            The Company has directly
guaranteed the repayment of the trust preferred securities to the holders thereof to the extent that there are funds available in the Trusts. If the Company does not make payments on the junior subordinated debentures owned by a Morgan Stanley
Capital Trust, such Morgan Stanley Capital Trust will not be able to pay any amounts payable in respect of the trust preferred securities issued by it and will not have funds legally available for that purpose. In that event, holders of such series
of trust preferred securities would not be able to rely upon the guarantee for payment of those amounts. The guarantee will remain in place until the redemption price of all of the trust preferred securities is paid, the amounts payable with respect
to the trust preferred securities upon liquidation of the Morgan Stanley Capital Trusts are paid or the junior subordinated debentures are distributed to the holders of all the trust preferred securities. The trust preferred securities held by the
Equity Unit holders are pledged to the Company to collateralize the obligations of the Equity Unit holders under the related stock purchase contracts. The Equity Unit holders may substitute certain zero-coupon treasury securities in place of the
trust preferred securities as collateral under the stock purchase contracts.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Stock Purchase Contracts.             Each stock purchase contract requires the holder to purchase, and the Company to sell, on the stock purchase date a number of
newly issued or treasury shares of the Company s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, equal to the settlement rate.            On October 13, 2008, the Company sold to MUFG certain preferred stock for an aggregate purchase price of $9 billion (see below for further discussion).
As a result of this transaction, and as contractually required by the terms of the securities purchase agreement for the sale of Equity Units to CIC, the threshold appreciation price of $57.6840 was reduced to the reference price of $48.07. As a
result, the Company will issue 116,062,911 shares of common stock (subject to adjustment for certain anti-dilution provisions and participation in certain dividends as described below) upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts on
August 17, 2010.            The initial quarterly distributions on the
Series A, Series B and Series C trust preferred securities of 6%, combined with the contract adjustment payments on the stock purchase contracts of 3%, result in a 9% yield on the Equity Units. If the Company defers any of the contract adjustment
payments on the stock purchase contracts, then it will accrue additional amounts on the deferred amounts at the annual rate of 9% until paid, to the extent permitted by law.            The present value of the future contract adjustment payments due under the stock purchase contracts was approximately $400
million and was recorded in Other liabilities and accrued expenses with a corresponding decrease recorded in Paid-in capital, a component of Morgan Stanley shareholders  equity in the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition
in the first quarter of fiscal 2008. The other liability balance related to the stock purchase contracts accretes over the term of the stock purchase contract using the effective yield method with a corresponding charge to Interest expense. When the
contract adjustment payments are made under the stock purchase contracts, they will reduce the other liability balance.             Earnings per Share.             Prior to October 13, 2008, the impact of the Equity Units was reflected in the Company s earnings per diluted common share using the treasury stock
method. Under the treasury stock method, the number of shares of common stock included in the calculation of earnings per diluted common share was calculated as the excess, if any, of the number of shares expected to be issued upon settlement of the
stock purchase contract based on the average market price for the last 20 days of the reporting period, less the number of shares that could be purchased by the Company with the proceeds to be received upon settlement of the contract at the average
closing price for the reporting period.            Dilution of net income
per share occurred (i) in reporting periods when the average closing price of common shares was over $57.6840 per share or (ii) in reporting periods when the average closing price of common shares for a reporting period was between
$48.0700 and $57.6840 and was greater than the average market price for the last 20 days ending three days prior to the end of such reporting period.            Effective October 13, 2008, as a result of the adjustment to the Equity Units as described above, the Equity Units are deemed to be  participating
securities  in that the Equity Units have the ability to participate in any dividends the Company declares on common shares above $0.27 per share during any quarterly reporting period via an increase in the number of common shares to be
delivered upon settlement of the stock purchase contracts. The Equity Units are reflected, prospectively from October 13, 2008, in the Company s earnings per share calculation using the two-class method. During 2009, the one month ended
December 31, 2008 and fiscal 2008, no dividends above $0.27 per share were declared during any quarterly reporting period.            The Equity Units do not share in any losses of the Company for purposes of calculating EPS. Therefore, if the Company incurs a loss in any reporting period,
losses will not be allocated to the Equity Units in the EPS calculation.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   See Note 2 for further discussion on the two-class method and Note 14 for the dilutive impact for 2009,
fiscal 2008 and the one month ended December 31, 2008.              Common Equity Offerings.      During 2009, the Company issued common stock for approximately $6.9 billion in two registered public offerings. MUFG elected to participate in both offerings, and in one of the
offerings, MUFG received $0.7 billion of common stock in exchange for 640,909 shares of the Company s Series C Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Preferred Stock ( Series C Preferred Stock ).              Rabbi Trusts.      The Company has established
rabbi trusts (the  Rabbi Trusts ) to provide common stock voting rights to certain employees who hold outstanding restricted stock units. The assets of the Rabbi Trusts are consolidated with those of the Company, and the value of the
Company s stock held in the Rabbi Trusts is classified in Morgan Stanley shareholders  equity and generally accounted for in a manner similar to treasury stock.       
       Preferred Stock and Warrant   .             The Company s preferred stock outstanding consisted of the following:         

(1)  
  During 2009, 640,909 shares were redeemed with an aggregate price equal to the aggregate price exchanged by MUFG for approximately $0.7 billion of common stock
resulting in a negative adjustment of approximately $202 million in calculating earnings per basic and diluted share (see Note 14).               Series A Preferred Stock.     In July 2006, the Company issued 44,000,000 Depositary Shares, in an aggregate
of $1,100 million. Each Depositary Share represents 1/1,000th of a Share of Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A, $0.01 par value ( Series A Preferred Stock ). The Series A Preferred Stock is redeemable at
the Company s option, in whole or in part, on or after July 15, 2011 at a redemption price of $25,000 per share (equivalent to $25 per Depositary Share). The Series A Preferred Stock also has a preference over the Company s common
stock upon liquidation. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $255.56 per share of Series A Preferred Stock that was paid on January 15, 2010 to preferred shareholders of record on December 31,
2009.             Series B and Series C Preferred
Stock.     On October 13, 2008, the Company issued to MUFG 7,839,209 shares of Series B Non-Cumulative Non-Voting Perpetual Convertible Preferred Stock ( Series B Preferred Stock ) and 1,160,791 shares of Series C
Preferred Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $9 billion. The Series B Preferred Stock is convertible at MUFG s option (at a conversion price of $25.25) into 310,464,033 shares of the Company s common shares, subject to certain
anti-dilution adjustments. Subject to any applicable New York Stock Exchange stockholder approval requirements, one-half of the Series B Preferred Stock will mandatorily convert into the Company s common shares when, at any time on or after
October 13, 2009, the market price of

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
the Company s common shares exceeds 150% of the then-applicable conversion price (initially $25.25) for twenty trading days within any period of thirty consecutive trading days beginning
after October 13, 2009 (subject to certain ownership limits on MUFG and its affiliates). The remainder of the Series B Preferred Stock will mandatorily convert on the same basis on or after October 13, 2010.            The Series B Preferred Stock pays a non-cumulative dividend, as and if declared
by the Board of Directors of the Company, in cash, at the rate of 10% per annum of the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share, except under certain circumstances (as set forth in the securities purchase agreement for the sale of the Series
B Preferred Stock and the Series C Preferred Stock to MUFG). Subsequent to December 31, 2009, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $25.00 per share of Series B Preferred Stock that was paid on January 15, 2010 to preferred
shareholders of record on December 31, 2009.            The Series C
Preferred Stock is redeemable by the Company, in whole or in part, on or after October 15, 2011 at a redemption price of $1,100 per share. Dividends on the Series C Preferred Stock are payable, on a non-cumulative basis, as and if declared by
the Board of Directors of the Company, in cash, at the rate of 10% per annum of the liquidation preference of $1,000 per share. Subsequent to December 31, 2009, the Company declared a quarterly dividend of $25.00 per share of Series C
Preferred Stock that was paid on January 15, 2010 to preferred shareholders of record on December 31, 2009.            The $9 billion in proceeds was allocated to the Series B Preferred Stock and the Series C Preferred Stock based on their relative fair values at issuance
(approximately $8.1 billion was allocated to the Series B Preferred Stock and approximately $0.9 billion to the Series C Preferred Stock). Upon redemption by the Company, the excess of the redemption value of $1,100 per share over the carrying value
of the Series C Preferred Stock ($0.9 billion allocated at inception or approximately $784 per share) will be charged to Retained earnings ( i.e.,  treated in a manner similar to the treatment of dividends paid). The amount charged to Retained
earnings will be deducted from the numerator in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share during the related reporting period in which the Series C Preferred Stock is redeemed by the Company (See Note 14 for additional details).   
         Series D Preferred Stock and Warrant.     On
October 3, 2008, the Emergency Economic Stabilization Act of 2008 (initially introduced as TARP) was enacted. On October 14, 2008, the U.S. Treasury announced its intention to inject capital into nine large U.S. financial institutions,
including the Company, under the Capital Purchase Program ( CPP ). The Company was part of the initial group of financial institutions participating in the CPP, and on October 26, 2008 entered into a Securities Purchase
Agreement Standard Terms with the U.S. Treasury pursuant to which, among other things, the Company sold to the U.S. Treasury for an aggregate purchase price of $10 billion, 10 million shares of Series D Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual
Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, of the Company ( Series D Preferred Stock ) and warrant to purchase 65,245,759 shares of the Company s common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the  Warrant ), of the Company.
           The $10 billion in proceeds was allocated to the Series D
Preferred Stock and the Warrant based on their relative fair values at issuance (approximately $9 billion was allocated to the Series D Preferred Stock and approximately $1 billion to the Warrant). The difference between the initial value allocated
to the Series D Preferred Stock of approximately $9 billion and the liquidation value of $10 billion was to be charged to Retained earnings over the first five years of the contract as an adjustment to the dividend yield using the effective yield
method. The amount charged to Retained earnings was deducted from the numerator in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share during the related reporting period (see Note 14).            In June 2009, the Company repurchased the 10,000,000 shares of the Series D Preferred Stock from the U.S. Treasury, at the
liquidation preference amount plus accrued and unpaid dividends, for an aggregate repurchase price of $10,086 million.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   As a result of the Company s repurchase of the Series D Preferred Stock, the Company incurred a
negative adjustment of $850 million in its calculation of basic and diluted EPS (reduction to earnings (losses) applicable to the Company s common shareholders) for 2009 due to the accelerated amortization of the issuance discount on the Series
D Preferred Stock.            In August 2009, under the terms of the CPP
securities purchase agreement, the Company repurchased the Warrant from the U.S. Treasury in the amount of $950 million. The repurchase of the Series D Preferred Stock, in the amount of $10.0 billion and the Warrant in the amount of $950 million,
reduced the Company s total equity by $10,950 million in 2009.            The Company s preferred stock qualifies as Tier 1 capital in accordance with regulatory capital requirements (see Note 12).              Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss.      As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the components of the
Company s Accumulated other comprehensive loss are as follows (dollars in millions):         
           Cumulative Foreign Currency Translation
Adjustments.     Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments include gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency financial statements from their respective functional currencies to U.S. dollars, net of
hedge gains or losses and related tax effects. The Company uses foreign currency contracts and designates certain non-U.S. dollar currency debt as hedges to manage the currency exposure relating to its net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar
functional currency subsidiaries. Increases or decreases in the value of the Company s net foreign investments generally are tax deferred for U.S. purposes, but the related hedge gains and losses are taxable currently. The Company attempts to
protect its net book value from the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates on its net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar subsidiaries by selling the appropriate non-U.S. dollar currency in the forward market. Under some
circumstances, however, the Company may elect not to hedge its net monetary investments in certain foreign operations due to market conditions, including the availability of various currency contracts at acceptable costs. Information as of
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 relating to the hedging of the Company s net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries and their effects on cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments is
summarized below:         

At     December 31, 2009   

At     December 31, 2008   

(dollars in millions)   

Net monetary investments in non-U.S. dollar functional currency subsidiaries   
      
  $  
  9,325  

$  
  7,903  

Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from net investments in subsidiaries with a non-U.S. dollar
functional currency   
      
  $  
  254  

$  
  (339  
  )    
 
    Cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments resulting from realized or unrealized losses on hedges, net of
tax   

(280  
  )   

197  

Total cumulative foreign currency translation adjustments, net of tax   
      
  $  
  (26  
  )   
     
  $  
  (142  
  )    

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Non-controlling Interests.               Deconsolidation of Subsidiaries.         
     During 2009, the Company deconsolidated MSCI in connection with the Company s disposition of its remaining ownership interest in MSCI and
recognized an after-tax gain of approximately $279 million. The Company did not retain any investments in MSCI upon deconsolidation. See Note 23 for further information on discontinued operations.            During fiscal 2008, the Company deconsolidated certain subsidiaries and
recognized gains of approximately $70 million, included in Other revenues on the consolidated statements of income.              Changes in the Company s Ownership Interest in Subsidiaries.              The following table presents the effect on the Company s shareholders  equity from changes in ownership of
subsidiaries resulting from transactions with non-controlling interests.         

2009    

(dollars in millions)    
 
    Net income applicable to Morgan Stanley   
      
  $  
  1,346   
 
    Transfers from non-controlling interests:   

Increase in paid-in capital in connection with MSSB   

1,711   

Net transfers from non-controlling interests   

1,711   

Change from net income attributable to Morgan Stanley and transfers from non-controlling interests   
      
  $  
  3,057   

The increase in paid-in capital results from Citi s equity interest in MSSB, to which the Company had contributed certain businesses associated with the Company s Global Wealth Management Group. The excess of the preliminary net
fair value received by the Company over the increase in non-controlling interest associated with Smith Barney is reflected as an increase in paid-in capital. See Note 3 for further information regarding the MSSB transaction.            The impact on the Company s shareholders  equity from transactions
with non-controlling interests was not material for fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008.            During fiscal 2008, the Company recorded pre-tax gains of approximately $1.5 billion, in connection with sales of its shares in MSCI as part of secondary
offerings. Such gains are included in discontinued operations (see Note 23). During fiscal 2007, the Company recorded $239 million as an addition to paid-in capital associated with the initial public offering ( IPO ) of MSCI.   

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    14.    Earnings per Common Share.             Basic EPS is computed by dividing income available to Morgan Stanley common
shareholders by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Common shares outstanding include common stock and vested restricted stock unit awards where recipients have satisfied either the explicit vesting terms or
retirement eligibility requirements. Diluted EPS reflects the assumed conversion of all dilutive securities. The Company calculates EPS using the two-class method (see Note 2) and determines whether instruments granted in share-based payment
transactions are participating securities. The following table presents the calculation of basic and diluted EPS (in millions, except for per share data):         

(1)  
  Restricted stock units that are considered participating securities participate in all of the earnings of the Company in the computation of basic EPS, and therefore,
such restricted stock units are not included as incremental shares in the diluted calculation.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following securities were considered antidilutive and, therefore, were excluded from the computation
of diluted EPS:         

(1)  
  The Equity Units participate in substantially all of the earnings of the Company ( i.e. , any earnings above $0.27 per quarter) in basic EPS (assuming a full
distribution of earnings of the Company), and therefore, the Equity Units generally would not be included as incremental shares in the diluted calculation.         
      15.    Interest and Dividends and Interest Expense.             Details of Interest and dividends revenue and Interest expense were as follows (in millions):         

(1)  
  Interest income and expense and dividend income are recorded within the consolidated statements of income depending on the nature of the instrument and related market
conventions. When interest and dividends are included as a component of the instrument s fair value, interest and dividends are included within Principal transactions trading revenues or Principal transactions investment revenues.
Otherwise, they are included within Interest and dividends income or Interest expense.     

(2)  
  Interest expense on Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased is reported as a reduction to Interest and dividends revenues.     

(3)  
  The Company considers its principal trading, investment banking, commissions, and interest and dividend income, along with the associated interest expense, as one
integrated activity for each of the Company s separate businesses, and therefore, prior to December 2008, was unable to further breakout Interest and dividends and Interest expense (see Note 1).           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    16.    Sale of Bankruptcy Claims Related to a Derivative Counterparty.
            During 2009, the Company entered into multiple participation
agreements with certain investors whereby the Company sold undivided participating interests representing 81% (or $1,105 million) of its claims totaling $1,362 million, pursuant to International Swaps and Derivatives Association ( ISDA )
master agreements, against a derivative counterparty that filed for bankruptcy protection. The Company received cash proceeds of $429 million and recorded a gain on sale of $319 million in 2009. The gain is reflected in the consolidated statement of
income in Principal transactions-trading revenues within the Institutional Securities business segment.            As a result of the bankruptcy of the derivative counterparty, the Company, as contractually entitled, exercised remedies as the non-defaulting party and determined the value of the claims under the ISDA
master agreements in a commercially reasonable manner. The Company filed its claims with the bankruptcy court. In connection with the sale of the undivided participating interests in a portion of the claims, the Company provided certain
representations and warranties related to the allowance of the amount stated in the claims submitted to the bankruptcy court. The bankruptcy court will be evaluating all of the claims filed against the derivative counterparty. To the extent, in the
future, any portion of the stated claims is disallowed or reduced by the bankruptcy court in excess of a certain amount, then the Company must refund a portion of the purchase price plus interest from the date of the participation agreements to the
repayment date. The maximum amount that the Company could be required to refund is the total proceeds of $429 million plus interest. The Company recorded a liability for the fair value of this possible disallowance. The fair value was determined by
assessing mid-market values of the underlying transactions, where possible, prevailing bid-offer spreads around the time of the bankruptcy filing, and applying valuation adjustments related to estimating unwind costs. The investors, however, bear
full price risk associated with the allowed claims as it relates to the liquidation proceeds from the bankruptcy estate. The Company also agreed to service the claims and, as such, recorded a liability for the fair value of the servicing obligation.
The Company will continue to measure these obligations at fair value with changes in fair value recorded in earnings. These obligations are reflected in the consolidated statement of financial condition as Financial instruments sold, not yet
purchased derivatives and other contracts, in Note 4 as Level 3 instruments, and in Note 10 as Derivatives not designated as accounting hedges. The disallowance obligation is also reflected in Note 11 in the guarantees table.             17.    Other Revenues.             Details of Other revenues were as follows:         

(1)  
  In the second quarter of fiscal 2008, the Company sold Morgan Stanley Wealth Management S.V., S.A.U. ( MSWM S.V. ), its Spanish onshore mass affluent wealth
management business. The Company recognized a pre-tax gain of approximately $687 million, net of transaction-related charges of approximately $50 million. The results of MSWM S.V. are included within the Global Wealth Management Group business
segment through the date of sale.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    18.    Employee Stock-Based Compensation Plans.             The accounting guidance for stock-based compensation requires measurement of
compensation cost for equity-based awards at fair value and recognition of compensation cost over the service period, net of estimated forfeitures (see Note 2).         
  The components of the Company s stock-based compensation expense (net of cancellations) are presented below:         

(1)  
  The Company discontinued the Employee Stock Purchase Plan effective June 1, 2009.     

(2)  
  Amounts for 2009 include $198 million primarily related to equity awards that were granted in 2010 to employees who are retirement-eligible under the award terms.
Amounts for fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 include $90 million and $345 million of accrued stock-based compensation expense primarily related to year-end equity awards granted in December 2008 and December 2007, respectively, to employees who are
retirement-eligible under the award terms. Amounts for the one month ended December 31, 2008 include $2 million primarily related to equity awards that were granted in 2010 to employees who are retirement-eligible under the award terms.
             The table above excludes stock-based compensation
expense recorded in discontinued operations, which was approximately $11 million, $40 million, $30 million and $2 million for 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively. See Note 23 for additional
information on discontinued operations.            The tax benefit for
stock-based compensation expense related to deferred stock and stock options was $380 million, $557 million, $716 million and $23 million for 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively. The tax
benefit for stock-based compensation expense included in discontinued operations in 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008 was approximately $3 million, $15 million, $12 million, and $1 million,
respectively.            As of December 31, 2009 and December 31,
2008, the Company had approximately $762 million and $1,689 million, respectively, of unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested stock-based awards (excluding 2009 year-end awards granted in January 2010 to nonretirement-eligible employees,
which will begin to be amortized in 2010). The unrecognized compensation cost relating to unvested stock-based awards expected to vest will primarily be recognized over the next two years.            In connection with awards under its equity-based compensation plans, the Company
is authorized to issue shares of its common stock held in treasury or newly issued shares. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, approximately 107 million and 82 million shares, respectively, were available for future grant under
these plans.            The Company generally uses treasury shares to
deliver shares to employees and has an ongoing repurchase authorization that includes repurchases in connection with awards granted under its equity-based compensation plans. Share repurchases by the Company are subject to regulatory approval. See
Note 13 for additional information on the Company s share repurchase program.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   As a result of the DFS Spin-off effective June 30, 2007, all outstanding options to purchase the
Company s common stock held by employees of DFS were canceled and replaced with options to purchase DFS common stock. Outstanding options to purchase Morgan Stanley common stock held by directors and employees who remained with the Company
after the DFS Spin-off were adjusted to preserve the intrinsic value of the awards immediately prior to the spin-off using an adjustment ratio based on the Morgan Stanley closing market stock price immediately prior to the spin-off date and the
beginning market stock price at the date of the spin-off. Additional compensation cost recognized as a result of this modification was not material.            Similarly, restricted stock units awarded pursuant to equity incentive plans and held by employees of DFS were canceled and replaced with restricted units of
DFS stock. Outstanding restricted stock units held by Morgan Stanley directors and employees who remained with the Company after the DFS Spin-off were adjusted by multiplying the number of shares by an adjustment ratio in order to account for the
impact of the spin-off on the value of the Company s shares at the time the spin-off was completed. No additional compensation cost was recognized as a result of this modification. Cash paid to the holders of deferred shares in lieu of
fractional shares was not material.              Deferred Stock
Awards.      The Company has made deferred stock awards pursuant to several equity-based compensation plans. The plans provide for the deferral of a portion of certain key employees  discretionary compensation with
awards made in the form of restricted common stock or in the right to receive unrestricted shares of common stock in the future ( restricted stock units ). Awards under these plans are generally subject to vesting over time contingent upon
continued employment and to restrictions on sale, transfer or assignment until the end of a specified period, generally two to three years from date of grant. All or a portion of an award may be canceled if employment is terminated before the end of
the relevant restriction period. All or a portion of a vested award also may be canceled in certain limited situations, including termination for cause during the relevant restriction period. Recipients of deferred stock awards generally have voting
rights and receive dividend equivalents.            The following table sets
forth activity relating to the Company s vested and unvested restricted stock units (share data in millions):         
     
          The weighted average price for restricted stock units granted during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 was $48.71 and $66.68 (adjusted to reflect the impact of the DFS Spin-off), respectively. As of
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the weighted-average remaining term until delivery for the Company s outstanding restricted stock units was approximately 1.5 years and 2.2 years, respectively.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The total fair market value of restricted stock units converted to common stock during 2009, fiscal
2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008 was $151 million, $3,209 million, $817 million and $8 million, respectively. The increased value of restricted stock units converting to common stock in fiscal 2008 compared to other
fiscal years reflects the impact of a modification in fiscal 2008 to accelerate the conversion of certain restricted stock unit awards. Additional compensation cost recognized as a result of this modification was not material.            The following table sets forth activity relating to the Company s unvested
restricted stock units (share data in millions):         

(1)  
  Unvested restricted stock units represent awards where recipients have yet to satisfy either the explicit vesting terms or retirement-eligible requirements. As of
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, approximately 55 million and 63 million, respectively, unvested restricted stock units, with a weighted average grant date fair value of $38.48 and $41.52, respectively, were expected to vest.
               Stock Option
Awards.      The Company has granted stock option awards pursuant to several equity-based compensation plans. The plans provide for the deferral of a portion of certain key employees  discretionary compensation with
awards made in the form of stock options generally having an exercise price not less than the fair value of the Company s common stock on the date of grant. Such stock option awards generally become exercisable over a three-year period and
expire ten years from the date of grant, subject to accelerated expiration upon termination of employment. Stock option awards have vesting, restriction and cancellation provisions that are generally similar to those in deferred stock awards.
           The weighted average fair value of options granted during fiscal
2007 was $18.55 (adjusted to reflect the impact of the DFS Spin-off), utilizing the following weighted average assumptions. No options were granted in 2009, fiscal 2008 or the one month ended December 31, 2008.         
          The Company s expected option life has been determined based upon historical experience. The expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the implied volatility of exchange-traded
options, in accordance with accounting guidance for share-based payments.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table sets forth activity relating to the Company s stock options (option data in
millions):         
     
          The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during fiscal 2008 and fiscal 2007 was $211 million and $707 million, respectively. There were no stock options exercised during 2009 or the one month ended December 31, 2008.
           As of December 31, 2009, the intrinsic value of in-the-money
exercisable stock options was not material. As of December 31, 2008, there were no exercisable in-the-money stock options.            The following tables present information relating to the Company s stock options outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008
(number of options outstanding data in millions):         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    19.    Employee Benefit Plans.             The Company sponsors various pension plans for the majority of its U.S. and
non-U.S. employees. The Company provides certain other postretirement benefits, primarily health care and life insurance, to eligible U.S. employees. The Company also provides certain postemployment benefits to certain former employees or inactive
employees prior to retirement.            For fiscal 2008, the Company
adopted the measurement date provision as required under current accounting guidance under the alternative transition method, which requires the measurement date to coincide with the fiscal year-end date. The Company recorded an after-tax charge of
approximately $13 million to equity ($21 million before tax) upon adoption of this requirement.              Pension and Other Postretirement Plans.      Substantially all of the U.S. employees of the Company hired before July 1, 2007 and its U.S. affiliates are covered by a
non-contributory, defined benefit pension plan that is qualified under Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code (the  U.S. Qualified Plan ). Unfunded supplementary plans (the  Supplemental Plans ) cover certain
executives. In addition, certain of the Company s non-U.S. subsidiaries also have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of their employees. These pension plans generally provide pension benefits that are based on each
employee s years of credited service and on compensation levels specified in the plans. The Company s policy is to fund at least the amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements under applicable employee benefit and tax laws.
Liabilities for benefits payable under the Supplemental Plans are accrued by the Company and are funded when paid to the beneficiaries. The Company s U.S. Qualified Plan was closed to new hires effective July 1, 2007. In lieu of a defined
benefit pension plan, eligible employees (excluding legacy Smith Barney employees) who were first hired, rehired or transferred to a U.S. benefits eligible position on or after July 1, 2007 will receive a retirement contribution under the
401(k) plan. The amount of the retirement contribution is included in the Company s 401(k) cost and will be equal to between 2% and 5% of eligible pay up to the annual Internal Revenue Code Section 401(a)(17) limit based on years of service as
of December 31.            The Company also has an unfunded
postretirement benefit plan that provides medical and life insurance for eligible U.S. retirees and medical insurance for their dependents.            The following tables present information for the Company s pension and postretirement plans on an aggregate basis:             Net Periodic Benefit Expense.             The following table presents the components of the net periodic benefit
expense:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Other changes in plan assets and benefit obligations recognized in other comprehensive loss (income) on
a pre-tax basis in 2009, fiscal 2008 and the one month ended December 31, 2008 are as follows:         
          The Company amortizes (as a component of pension and postretirement expense) unrecognized net gains and losses over the average future service of active participants (5 to 20 years depending upon the plan) to the extent that the gain/loss
exceeds 10% of the greater of the projected benefit obligation or the market-related value of plan assets.            The following table presents the weighted average assumptions used to determine net periodic benefit costs for 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008:         
          The expected long-term rate of return on plan assets represents the Company s best estimate of the long-term return on plan assets. For the U.S.
Qualified Plan, the expected long-term rate of return was estimated by computing a weighted average return of the underlying long-term expected returns on the plan s fixed income assets based on the investment managers  target allocations
within this asset class. The expected long-term return on assets is a long-term assumption that generally is expected to remain the same from one year to the next unless there is a significant change in the target asset allocation, the fees and
expenses paid by the plan or market conditions. To better align the duration of plan assets with the duration of plan liabilities, in fiscal 2007, the U.S. Qualified Plan s target asset allocation policy was changed from 45%/55% equity/fixed
income to 30%/70% equity/fixed income. In late 2008, the U.S. Qualified Plan transitioned to 100% investment in fixed income securities and related derivative securities, including interest rate swap contracts. This asset allocation is expected to
help protect the plan s funded status and limit volatility of the Company s contributions. Total U.S. Qualified Plan portfolio performance is assessed by comparing actual investment performance with changes in the estimated present value
of the U.S. Qualified Plan s liability.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Benefit Obligations and Funded Status.             The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in the benefit
obligation and fair value of plan assets for 2009, fiscal 2008 and the one month ended December 31, 2008:         

(1)  
  Pension amounts included in discontinued operations were $2 million.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(2)  
  Pension amounts included in discontinued operations were $1 million.     

(3)  
  Change in actuarial gain under benefit obligation is primarily attributed to an increase in the discount rates as of December 31, 2009.     

(4)  
  Transfers and divestitures primarily related to the impact of MSCI and the formation of MSSB.              The following table presents a summary of the funded status as of
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008:         
          The estimated prior-service credit that will be
amortized from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost over 2010 is approximately $10 million for defined benefit pension plans and $1 million for postretirement plans. The estimated net loss that will be amortized
from Accumulated other comprehensive loss into net periodic benefit cost over 2010 is approximately $25 million for defined benefit pension plans and $1 million for postretirement plans.            The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was
$2,507 million and $2,532 million as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively.            The following table contains information for pension plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of the fair value of plan assets as of period-end:         
          The following table contains information for pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of the fair value of plan assets as of period-end:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table presents the weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations as
of period-end:         
          The discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for the U.S. Qualified Pension Plan and postretirement plan was selected by the Company, in
consultation with its independent actuaries, using a pension discount yield curve based on the characteristics of the U.S. Qualified Plan and postretirement liabilities, each determined independently. The pension discount yield curve represents spot
discount yields based on duration implicit in a representative broad based Aa corporate bond universe of high-quality fixed income investments. At December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, the Company s U.S. Qualified Plan represented
83% of the total liabilities of its U.S. pension and postretirement plans combined. The discount rate used to determine the benefit obligation for the defined benefit portion of its U.K. pension plans were selected by the Company using a pension
discount yield curve based on the characteristics of the U.K. defined benefit pension liabilities. For all other non-U.S. pension plans, the Company set the assumed discount rates based on the nature of liabilities, local economic environments and
available bond indices.            The following table presents assumed
health care cost trend rates used to determine the postretirement benefit obligations as of period-end:         
          Assumed health care cost trend rates can have a significant effect on the amounts reported for the Company s postretirement benefit plans. A
one-percentage point change in assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:         

One-Percentage Point Increase   
      
   One-Percentage Point (Decrease)   

(dollars in millions)   

Effect on total postretirement service and interest cost   
      
  $  
  5  
      
  $  
  (4  
  )    
 
    Effect on postretirement benefit obligation   

31  

(24  
  )              The Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the  Act ) was enacted in December 2003. For 2009 and fiscal 2008, Morgan Stanley elected not to apply for the Medicare
Retiree Drug Subsidy or take any other action related to the Act since Medicare prescription drug coverage was deemed to have no material effect on the Company s retiree medical program. No impact of the Act has been reflected in the
Company s consolidated statements of income.             Plan
Assets.     The U.S. Qualified Plan assets represent 89% of the Company s total pension plan assets. The U.S. Qualified Plan uses a combination of active and risk-controlled fixed income investment strategies. The fixed
income asset allocation consists primarily of fixed income securities designed to approximate the expected

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
cash flows of the plan s liabilities in order to help reduce plan exposure to interest rate variation and to better align assets with obligations. The longer duration fixed income allocation
is expected to help protect the plan s funded status and maintain the stability of plan contributions over the long run.            The allocation by investment manager of the Company s U.S. Qualified Plan is reviewed by the Morgan Stanley Retirement Plan Investment Committee on a
regular basis. When the exposure to a given investment manager reaches a minimum or maximum allocation level, an asset allocation review process is initiated, and the portfolio will be automatically rebalanced back closer toward the target
allocation unless the Investment Committee determines otherwise.           Derivative instruments are permitted in the U.S. Qualified Plan s portfolio only to the extent that they comply with all of the plan s policy guidelines and are consistent with the plan s risk and return objectives. In
addition, any investment in derivatives must meet the following conditions:         

Derivatives may be used only if they are deemed by the investment manager to be more attractive than a similar direct investment in the underlying cash
market or if the vehicle is being used to manage risk of the portfolio.            

Derivatives may not be used in a speculative manner or to leverage the portfolio under any circumstances.            

Derivatives may not be used as short-term trading vehicles. The investment philosophy of the U.S. Qualified Plan is that investment activity is
undertaken for long-term investment rather than short-term trading.            

Derivatives may only be used in the management of the U.S. Qualified Plan s portfolio when their possible effects can be quantified, shown to
enhance the risk-return profile of the portfolio, and reported in a meaningful and understandable manner.               As a fundamental operating principle, any restrictions on the underlying assets apply to a respective derivative product. This includes percentage
allocations and credit quality. Derivatives will be used solely for the purpose of enhancing investment in the underlying assets and not to circumvent portfolio restrictions.            The plan assets are measured at fair value using valuation techniques that are consistent with the valuation techniques applied
to the Company s major categories of assets and liabilities as described in Note 4. Quoted market prices in active markets are the best evidence of fair value and are used as the basis for the measurement, if available. If a quoted market price
is available, the fair value is the product of the number of trading units multiplied by the market price. If a quoted market price is not available, the estimate of fair value is based on the valuation approaches that maximize use of observable
inputs and minimize use of unobservable inputs.            The fair value of
OTC derivative contracts is derived primarily using pricing models, which may require multiple market input parameters. Derivative contracts are presented on a gross basis prior to cash collateral or counterparty netting. Derivative contracts
consist of investments in options and futures contracts, forward contracts and swaps.            Commingled trust funds are privately offered funds available to institutional clients that are regulated, supervised, and subject to periodic examination by a state or federal agency. The trust must be
maintained for the collective investment or reinvestment of assets contributed to it from employee benefit plans maintained by more than one employer or a controlled group of corporations. The sponsor of the commingled trust funds values the
funds  NAV based on the fair value of the underlying securities. The underlying securities of the commingled trust funds consist of mainly long duration fixed income instruments. Commingled trust funds are categorized in Level 2 of the fair
value hierarchy to the extent that they are readily redeemable at their NAV or else they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Foreign funds consist of investment in foreign corporate equity funds, foreign corporate bond funds and
foreign target cash flow funds. Foreign corporate equity funds and foreign corporate bond funds invest in individual securities quoted on a recognized stock exchange or traded in a regulated market and certain bond funds that aim to produce returns
as close as possible to certain FTSE indexes. Foreign target cash flow funds are designed to provide a series of fixed annual cash flows over 5 or 10 years achieved by investing in government bonds and derivatives. Foreign funds are categorized in
Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as they are readily redeemable at their NAV.            Other investments consist of investment in real estate and hedge funds. These funds are categorized in Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy to the extent that they are readily redeemable at their NAV or
else they are categorized in Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.            The following table presents the fair value of the net pension plan assets as of December 31, 2009:         

(1)  
  Cash and cash equivalents, repurchase agreements, other receivables and other liabilities are valued at cost, which approximates fair value.     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(2)  
  Derivative and other contracts in an asset position include investments in futures contracts and interest rate swaps of $2 million and $32 million, respectively.

(3)  
  Commingled trust funds include investments in cash funds, fixed income funds and equity funds of $74 million, $573 million and $12 million, respectively.

(4)  
  Foreign funds include investments in equity funds, bond funds and targeted cashflow funds of $15 million, $81 million and $88 million, respectively.

(5)  
  Derivative and other contracts in a liability position include investments in listed derivatives and interest rate swaps of $15 million and $160 million, respectively.
             The following table presents changes in Level 3
pension assets and liabilities measured at fair value for 2009:         

(1)  
  Net transfers out represents reclassification of commingled trust funds from Level 3 to Level 2 based on current accounting guidance for investments that are readily
redeemable at their NAV.               Cash Flows.
            At December 31, 2009, the Company expects to contribute
approximately $275 million to its pension and postretirement benefit plans in 2010 based upon the plans  current funded status and expected asset return assumptions for 2010, as applicable.            Expected benefit payments associated with the Company s pension and
postretirement benefit plans for the next five years and in aggregate for the five years thereafter as of December 31, 2009 are as follows:         
              Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan, Morgan Stanley 401(k) Savings Plan and Profit Sharing Awards.        Eligible U.S. employees receive 401(k) matching contributions
that are invested in the Company s common stock. Effective July 1, 2009, the Company introduced the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Savings Plan for legacy Smith Barney U.S. employees who were contributed to MSSB. Legacy Smith Barney U.S. employees
with eligible pay less than or equal to $100,000 will receive a fixed contribution under the 401(k) Savings Plan. The amount of fixed contribution is included in the Company s 401(k) expense and equals between 1% and 2% of eligible pay based on
years of service as of December 31. Additionally, certain eligible Smith Barney employees were granted a transition contribution and a one-time make-up Company match based on certain transition percentages of eligible pay and a comparison of
the Company match under the Citi 401(k) Plan and Morgan Stanley 401(k) Savings Plan. The retirement contribution granted in lieu of a defined benefit pension plan, and the fixed

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
contribution, transition contribution and make-up Company match granted to legacy Smith Barney employees are included in the Company s 401(k) expense. The Company entered into an agreement
with the investment manager for the SVP, a fund within the Company s 401(k) plan, and certain other third parties on September 30, 2009 (see Note 11 for further information). Under the agreement, the Company contributed $20 million to the
SVP on October 15, 2009 and recorded the contribution in the Company s 401(k) expense. The Company also provides discretionary profit sharing to certain Non-U.S. employees. The pre-tax expense associated with the 401(k) plans and profit
sharing for 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008 was $181 million, $106 million, $128 million and $8 million, respectively.              Defined Contribution Pension Plans.      The Company maintains separate defined contribution
pension plans that cover substantially all employees of certain non-U.S. subsidiaries. Under such plans, benefits are determined based on a fixed rate of base salary with certain vesting requirements. In 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one
month ended December 31, 2008, the Company s expense related to these plans was $99 million, $128 million, $115 million and $9 million, respectively.         
    Other Postemployment Benefits.      Postemployment benefits include, but are not limited to, salary continuation,
severance benefits, disability-related benefits, and continuation of health care and life insurance coverage provided to former employees or inactive employees after employment but before retirement. The postemployment benefit obligations were not
material as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008.             20.    Income Taxes.             The
provision for (benefit from) income taxes from continuing operations consisted of:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The following table reconciles the provision for (benefit from) income taxes to the U.S. federal
statutory income tax rate:         

(1)  
  The effective tax rate for 2009 includes a tax benefit of $331 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, resulting from the cost of anticipated repatriation of non-U.S.
earnings at lower than previously estimated tax rates. Excluding this benefit, the annual effective tax rate for 2009 would have been a benefit of 1%.              As of December 31, 2009, the Company had approximately $4.0 billion of earnings attributable to foreign subsidiaries for
which no provisions have been recorded for income tax that could occur upon repatriation. Except to the extent such earnings can be repatriated tax efficiently, they are permanently invested abroad. It is not practicable to determine the amount of
income taxes payable in the event all such foreign earnings are repatriated.            Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the financial reporting and tax bases of assets and liabilities and are measured using the enacted tax rates and laws
that will be in effect when such differences are expected to reverse. Significant components of the Company s deferred tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 were as follows:         

(1)  
  The valuation allowance reduces the benefit of certain separate Company federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards and book writedowns to the amount
that will more likely than not be realized.                 

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   During 2009 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, the valuation allowance was decreased by $97
million and increased by $1 million, respectively, related to the ability to utilize certain separate federal, state and foreign net operating losses.            The Company had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards for which a deferred tax asset of $1,978 million and $4,080 million was recorded as of
December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. These carryforwards are subject to annual limitations and will begin to expire in 2028. The deferred tax asset for federal net operating loss carryforwards did not include
approximately $75 million related to excess tax benefits from the exercise or conversion of stock-based compensation awards which had not been realized as of December 31, 2008. These previously unrecognized tax benefits were
realized and recorded in Paid-in capital as of December 31, 2009.            The Company had net operating loss carryforwards in Japan for which a deferred tax asset of $546 million was recorded as of December 31, 2009. These carryforwards are subject to annual limitations and will begin to expire in 2016.
           The Company had a federal capital loss carryforward for which a
related deferred tax asset of $234 million was recorded as of December 31, 2009. This carryforward is subject to annual limitations on utilization and will begin to expire in 2015.            The Company had tax credit carryforwards for which a related deferred tax asset of $2,062 million and $2,041 million was
recorded as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. These carryforwards are subject to annual limitations on utilization and will begin to expire in 2016.            The Company believes the recognized net deferred tax asset of $7,615 million (after valuation allowance) is more likely
than not to be realized based on expectations as to future taxable income in the jurisdictions in which it operates.            The Company recorded net income tax benefits (provision) to Paid-in capital related to employee stock compensation transactions of $33 million, $(131)
million, $280 million and $(4) million in 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively. The $33 million net income tax benefit related to employee stock compensation transactions recorded to Paid-in
capital in 2009 includes approximately $75 million of excess tax benefits that were realized in 2009 related to certain stock-based compensation awards exercised or converted in prior years.            Cash paid for income taxes was $1,028 million, $1,406 million,
$3,404 million and $113 million in 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively. During fiscal 2008, the Company received a refund of $1,200 million for overpayment of estimated taxes remitted
during fiscal 2007.            The following table presents the U.S. and
non-U.S. components of income before income tax expense/(benefit) and extraordinary gain for the years ended in 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively:         

(1)   
    Non-U.S. income is defined as income generated from operations located outside the U.S.            

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   The Company adopted accounting guidance which clarifies the accounting for uncertainty in income taxes
recognized in a company s financial statements on December 31, 2007 and recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of approximately $92 million as a decrease to the opening balance of Retained earnings as of December 1, 2007.   
        The total amount of unrecognized tax benefits was approximately $4.1 billion
and $3.5 billion as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Of this total, approximately $2.1 billion and $1.9 billion, respectively, (net of federal benefit of state issues, competent authority and foreign tax credit
offsets) represent the amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if recognized, would favorably affect the effective tax rate in future periods.            The Company recognizes the accrual of interest related to unrecognized tax benefits in Provision for income taxes in the consolidated statements of income.
The Company recognizes the accrual of penalties (if any) related to unrecognized tax benefits in Income before income taxes. For 2009, fiscal 2008 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, the Company recognized $53 million, $76 million and
$7 million, respectively, of interest (net of federal and state income tax benefits) in the consolidated statements of income. Interest expense accrued as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008 was approximately $367 million and
$313 million, respectively, net of federal and state income tax benefits. The amount of penalties accrued was immaterial.            The following table presents a reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of unrecognized tax benefits for 2009, fiscal 2008 and the one month ended
December 31, 2008 (dollars in millions):         

Unrecognized Tax Benefits    

Balance at December 1, 2007   
      
  $  
  2,722  

Increases based on tax positions related to the current period   

856  

Increases based on tax positions related to prior periods   

5  

Decreases based on tax positions related to prior periods   

(124  
  )    
 
    Decreases related to a lapse of applicable statute of limitations   

(34  
  )    

Balance at November 30, 2008   
      
  $  
  3,425  

Increases based on tax positions related to the current period   

41  

Balance at December 31, 2008   
      
  $  
  3,466  

Increases based on tax positions related to the current period   

688  

Increases based on tax positions related to prior periods   

33  

Decreases based on tax positions related to prior periods   

(74  
  )    
 
    Decreases related to a lapse of applicable statute of limitations   

(61  
  )    

Balance at December 31, 2009   
      
  $  
  4,052  

The Company is under continuous examination by
the Internal Revenue Service (the  IRS ) and other tax authorities in certain countries, such as Japan and the U.K., and states in which the Company has significant business operations, such as New York. During 2010, the IRS and the
Japanese tax authorities are expected to conclude the field work portion of their examinations on issues covering tax years 1999-2005 and 2007-2008, respectively. Also during 2010, the Company expects to reach a conclusion with the U.K. tax
authorities on issues through tax year 2007, including those in appeals. Additionally, during 2010, the Company may reach a conclusion with the New York State and New York City tax authorities on issues covering years 2002-2006. The Company
regularly assesses the likelihood of additional assessments in each of the taxing jurisdictions resulting from these and subsequent years  examinations. The Company has established unrecognized tax benefits that the Company believes are
adequate in relation to the potential for additional assessments. Once established, the

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   
Company adjusts unrecognized tax benefits only when more information is available or when an event occurs necessitating a change. The Company believes that the resolution of tax matters will not
have a material effect on the consolidated statements of financial condition of the Company, although a resolution could have a material impact on the Company s consolidated statements of income for a particular future period and on the
Company s effective income tax rate for any period in which such resolution occurs.            It is reasonably possible that significant changes in the gross balance of unrecognized tax benefits may occur within the next twelve months. At this time, however, it is not possible to reasonably
estimate the expected change to the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits and impact on the effective tax rate over the next twelve months.            The following are the major tax jurisdictions in which the Company and its affiliates operate and the earliest tax year subject to examination:   
     
           21.    Segment and Geographic Information.              The Company structures its segments primarily based upon the nature of the financial products and services provided to customers and the Company s
management organization. The Company provides a wide range of financial products and services to its customers in each of its business segments: Institutional Securities, Global Wealth Management Group and Asset Management. For further discussion of
the Company s business segments, see Note 1.            Revenues
and expenses directly associated with each respective segment are included in determining its operating results. Other revenues and expenses that are not directly attributable to a particular segment are allocated based upon the Company s
allocation methodologies, generally based on each segment s respective net revenues, non-interest expenses or other relevant measures.            As a result of treating certain intersegment transactions as transactions with external parties, the Company includes an Intersegment Eliminations category
to reconcile the business segment results to the Company s consolidated results. Income before taxes in Intersegment Eliminations primarily represents the effect of timing differences associated with the revenue and expense recognition of
commissions paid by the Asset Management business segment to the Global Wealth Management Group business segment associated with sales of certain products and the related compensation costs paid to the Global Wealth Management Group business
segment s global representatives. Intersegment eliminations also reflect the effect of fees paid by the Institutional Securities business segment to the Global Wealth Management Group business segment related to the bank deposit program.

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Selected financial information for the Company s segments is presented below:         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(1)  
  See Note 23 for a discussion of discontinued operations.     

(2)  
  Amounts include net gains on discontinued operations applicable to Morgan Stanley of $265 million in 2009, $928 million in fiscal 2008, $95 million in fiscal 2007 and
$4 million in the one month ended December 31, 2008 primarily related to MSCI that are included in the Institutional Securities business segment. Amounts also include net (loss) gain on discontinued operations applicable to Morgan Stanley of
$(82) million in 2009, $(262) million in fiscal 2008 and $2 million in the one month ended December 31, 2008 related to Retail Asset Management and Crescent that are included in the Asset Management business segment and $253 million in fiscal
2007 related to Retail Asset Management.           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(3)  
  Income from continuing operations for the Institutional Securities business segment includes correction of prior-period errors of $171 million ($120 million after-tax),
$0.11 per diluted share, due to the reversal of valuation adjustments related to interest rate derivatives, and a cumulative negative adjustment of $120 million ($84 million after-tax), $0.08 per diluted share, resulting from incorrect valuations of
a London-based trader s positions. The positive adjustment of $171 million related to fiscal 2006. The negative adjustment of $120 million increased income from continuing operations on a pre-tax basis by $45 million and $75 million in fiscal
2007 and fiscal 2008, respectively. The Company does not believe the adjustments, which were recorded in the period identified, were material to those consolidated financial statements after considering both the quantitative amount and qualitative
factors as related to the affected financial statements.     

(4)  
  The results of the Institutional Securities business segment for fiscal 2007 included a $25 million advisory fee related to the Discover Spin-off that was eliminated in
consolidation.           

(1)  
  Corporate assets have been fully allocated to the Company s business segments.              The Company operates in both U.S. and non-U.S. markets. The Company s non-U.S. business activities are principally
conducted through European and Asian locations. The following tables present selected income statement information and total assets of the Company s operations by geographic area. The selected income statement information and total assets
disclosed in the following tables reflect the regional view of the Company s consolidated net revenues, income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes, net income (loss) applicable to Morgan Stanley and total assets, on a managed
basis, based on the following methodology:         

Institutional Securities: advisory and equity underwriting client location, debt underwriting revenue recording location, sales and
trading trading desk location.            

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

Global Wealth Management Group: global representative coverage location.            

Asset Management: client location, except for merchant banking business, which is based on asset location.            

(1)  
  Certain reclassifications have been made to prior-period amounts to conform to the current year s presentation.               22.    Joint Venture.              Japan Securities Joint Venture.     On March 26,
2009, MUFG and the Company announced that they had signed a memorandum of understanding to form a securities joint venture between Mitsubishi UFJ Securities Co., Ltd. and MSJS.            On November 18, 2009, MUFG and the Company announced further plans to integrate their securities operations in Japan by
executing the joint venture through two entities, Mitsubishi UFJ Morgan Stanley Securities Co., Ltd. and Morgan Stanley MUFG Securities Co., Ltd., rather than through a single company. The two joint venture companies will collaborate in a number of
business and product areas, including offering the Company s global products and services to retail and middle market customers in Japan. The closing of this transaction is subject to the execution of the definitive agreements and regulatory
approvals and other customary closing conditions.            In addition, on
June 30, 2009, MUFG and the Company announced the creation of a loan marketing joint venture in the Americas and business referral arrangements in Asia, Europe, the Middle East and Africa. MUFG and the Company also entered into a referral
agreement for commodities transactions executed outside of Japan and a transfer of personnel between MUFG and the Company for the sharing of best practices and expertise.       
      23.    Discontinued Operations.               Retail Asset Management Business.      On October 19, 2009, as part of a restructuring of
its Asset Management business segment, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell substantially all of Retail Asset Management, including Van Kampen, to Invesco. This transaction allows the Company s Asset Management business
segment to focus on its institutional client base, including corporations, pension plans, large intermediaries, foundations and endowments, sovereign wealth funds, and central banks, among others.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
   Under the terms of the definitive agreement, Invesco will purchase substantially all of Retail Asset
Management, operating under both the Morgan Stanley and Van Kampen brands, in a stock and cash transaction. The Company will receive a 9.4% minority interest in Invesco. The transaction, which has been approved by the Boards of Directors of
both companies, is expected to close in mid-2010, subject to customary regulatory, client and fund shareholder approvals. Total assets of Retail Asset Management included in the Company s consolidated statement of financial condition as of
December 31, 2009 approximated $743 million. The results of Retail Asset Management are included in discontinued operations for all periods presented.              MSCI.      On July 31, 2007, the Company announced that it would sell a minority interest in its subsidiary,
MSCI in an IPO. In November 2007, MSCI completed its IPO of 16.1 million shares and received net proceeds of approximately $265 million, net of underwriting discounts, commissions and offering expenses. As the IPO was part of a broader
corporate reorganization, contemplated by the Company at the IPO date, the increase in the carrying amount of the Company s investment in MSCI was recorded in Paid-in capital in the Company s consolidated statement of financial
condition and the Company s consolidated statement of changes in total equity at November 30, 2007.            In fiscal 2008, the Company sold approximately 53 million of its MSCI shares in two secondary offerings for net proceeds of approximately $1,560
million. During the second quarter of 2009, the Company sold all of its remaining 28 million shares in MSCI in a secondary offering for net proceeds of approximately $573 million. The results of MSCI prior to the divestiture are included in
discontinued operations for all periods presented. The results of MSCI were formerly included in the Institutional Securities business segment.              Crescent.      Discontinued operations in 2009, fiscal 2008 and the one month ended December 31, 2008 include operating
results and gains (losses) related to the disposition of Crescent, a former real estate subsidiary of the Company. The Company completed the disposition of Crescent in the fourth quarter of 2009, whereby the Company transferred its ownership
interest in Crescent to Crescent s primary creditor in exchange for full release of liability on the related loans. The results of Crescent were formerly included in the Asset Management business segment. The Company did not consolidate
Crescent prior to May 2008.              DFS.        On June 30, 2007, the Company completed the Discover Spin-off. The Company distributed all of the outstanding shares of DFS common stock, par value $0.01 per share, to the Company s
stockholders of record as of June 18, 2007. The results of DFS are included within discontinued operations for all periods through the date of the Discover Spin-off.       
     The net assets that were distributed to shareholders on the date of the Discover Spin-off were $5,558 million, which was recorded as a
reduction to the Company s retained earnings.            The results of
discontinued operations include interest expense that was allocated based upon borrowings that were specifically attributable to DFS  operations through intercompany transactions existing prior to the Discover Spin-off. For fiscal 2007, the
amount of interest expense reclassified to discontinued operations was approximately $159 million.            During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008, DFS announced the settlement of its lawsuit with Visa and MasterCard. At the time of the spin-off of DFS, the Company and DFS negotiated an agreement
that entitled the Company to receive approximately $1.3 billion pre-tax in connection with this settlement; however, DFS contends that the Company is in breach of the agreement. The Company has filed a lawsuit to enforce this agreement and this
revenue has not yet been included in the Company s results of operations. The results for discontinued operations in fiscal 2008 included costs related to the legal settlement between DFS, Visa and MasterCard. See Note 27 for further
information regarding settlement with DFS.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
     Quilter.      On February 28, 2007, the Company sold Quilter, its
standalone U.K. mass affluent business that was formerly included within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment. The results of Quilter are included within discontinued operations for all periods presented through the date of sale. Citi
subsequently contributed Quilter to the MSSB joint venture. The results of MSSB are included within the Global Wealth Management Group business segment s income from continuing operations effective May 31, 2009.              Summarized Financial Information for the Company s discontinued
operations for 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008:              The table below provides information regarding amounts included in discontinued operations (dollars in millions):         

(2)  
  Retail Asset Management amounts include eliminations of intersegment activity.     

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    24.    Parent Company.              Parent Company Only        Condensed Statements of Financial Condition        (dollars in millions, except share data)          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Parent Company Only        Condensed Statements of Income and Comprehensive Income        (dollars in millions)          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Parent Company Only        Condensed Statements of Cash Flows        (dollars in
millions)          
           Supplemental Disclosure of Cash Flow
Information             Cash payments for interest were $6,758 million,
$12,098 million, $9,595 million and $1,059 million for 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month ended December 31, 2008, respectively.            Cash (refund) payments for income taxes were $325 million, $(688) million, $847 million and $2 million for 2009, fiscal 2008, fiscal 2007 and the one month
ended December 31, 2008, respectively.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    Parent Company Only        Notes To Condensed Financial Statements              Transactions with Subsidiaries.             The Company has transactions with its consolidated subsidiaries determined on an agreed-upon basis and has guaranteed certain unsecured lines of credit and
contractual obligations of certain of its consolidated subsidiaries.             Guarantees.             In the normal course of its
business, the Company guarantees certain of its subsidiaries  obligations under derivative and other financial arrangements. The Company records Financial instruments owned and Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased, which include
derivative contracts, at fair value on its consolidated statements of financial condition.            The Company also, in the normal course of its business, provides standard indemnities to counterparties on behalf of its subsidiaries for taxes, including U.S. and foreign withholding taxes, on interest
and other payments made on derivatives, securities and stock lending transactions and certain annuity products. These indemnity payments could be required based on a change in the tax laws or change in interpretation of applicable tax rulings.
Certain contracts contain provisions that enable the Company to terminate the agreement upon the occurrence of such events. The maximum potential amount of future payments that the Company could be required to make under these indemnifications
cannot be estimated. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the condensed financial statements for these indemnifications and believes that the occurrence of any events that would trigger payments under these contracts is remote.
           The Company has issued guarantees on behalf of its subsidiaries
to various U.S. and non-U.S. exchanges and clearinghouses that trade and clear securities and/or futures contracts. Under these guarantee arrangements, the Company may be required to pay the financial obligations of its subsidiaries related to
business transacted on or with the exchanges and clearinghouses in the event of a subsidiary s default on its obligations to the exchange or the clearinghouse. The Company has not recorded any contingent liability in the condensed financial
statements for these arrangements and believes that any potential requirements to make payments under these arrangements is remote.            The Company guarantees certain debt instruments and warrants issued by subsidiaries. The debt instruments totaled $5.4 billion and $5.9 billion and the
warrants totaled $0.1 billion and $0.2 billion as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. In connection with subsidiary lease obligations, the Company has issued guarantees to various lessors. As of December 31, 2009 and
December 31, 2008, the Company had $1.6 billion and $1.5 billion outstanding under subsidiary lease obligations, primarily in the U.K.            As of December 31, 2009, the Company had $138 million in guarantees related to Crescent.         

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    25.     Transition Period Financial Information.          

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          
    26.    Quarterly Results (unaudited).          

(1)  
  Income from continuing operations includes correction of prior-period errors of $171 million ($120 million after-tax), $0.11 per diluted share, due to the reversal of
valuation adjustments related to interest rate derivatives, and a cumulative negative adjustment of $120 million ($84 million after-tax), $0.08 per diluted share, resulting from incorrect valuations of a London-based trader s positions The
positive adjustment of $171 million related to fiscal 2006. The negative adjustment of $120 million increased income from continuing operations on a pre-tax basis by $45 million and $75 million in fiscal 2007 and fiscal 2008, respectively. The
Company does not believe the adjustments, which were recorded in the period identified, were material to those consolidated financial statements after considering both the quantitative amount and qualitative factors as related to the affected
financial statements. These amounts are included in the Institutional Securities business segment (see Note 21).           

Table of Contents  

MORGAN STANLEY              NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)          

(2)  
  Results for the Company in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2008 included gains of approximately $3.0 billion from the widening of the Company s credit spreads on
certain long-term and short-term borrowings, gains of approximately $2.3 billion from the repurchase of the Company s debt, net losses of approximately $1.7 billion associated with loans and lending commitments, mortgage-related writedowns of
$1.2 billion, mark-to-market gains of approximately $1.4 billion after the de-designation of hedges against certain of the Company s debt and charges of $725 million related to the impairment of goodwill and intangible assets.

(3)  
  See Note 23 for a discussion of discontinued operations.     

(5)  
  Summation of the quarters  earnings per common share may not equal the annual amounts due to the averaging effect of the number of shares and share equivalents
throughout the year.               27.    Subsequent Events.              Settlement with DFS.       On February 11, 2010, the Company and DFS entered into an agreement in which each party released the other party from claims related to the sharing of proceeds from the lawsuit
against Visa and MasterCard. In addition, the Company and DFS entered into an agreement to provide that payments made by DFS to the Company in satisfaction of its obligations under the special dividend declared by DFS in June 2007, shall not exceed
$775 million. Also on February 11, 2010, DFS paid the Company $775 million in complete satisfaction of its obligations to the Company under the special dividend. The payment will be included in discontinued operations in the Company s condensed
consolidated statement of income for the first quarter of 2010.             Common Dividend.     On January 20, 2010, the Company announced that its Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend per common share of $0.05. The dividend is payable on February 12, 2010 to common
shareholders of record on January 29, 2010.            The Company has
evaluated its subsequent events through the filing date of this Form 10-K Report.         

Table of Contents  

      FINANCIAL DATA SUPPLEMENT (Unaudited)        Average Balances and Interest Rates and Net Interest Revenue          
       
   230   

Table of Contents  

231   

Table of Contents  

(1)  
  Interest expense on Financial instruments sold, not yet purchased is reported as a reduction of Interest and dividends revenues.           
   232   

Table of Contents  

(2)  
  Amounts primarily relate to securities financing transactions, which include repurchase and resale agreements, securities borrowed and loaned transactions, customer
receivables/payables and segregated customer cash. The Company considers its principal trading, investment banking, commissions, and interest and dividend income, along with the associated interest expense as one integrated activity for each of the
Company s separate businesses and is therefore unable to further breakout Interest and dividends and Interest expense (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements).               Rate/Volume Analysis             The following table sets forth an analysis of the effect on net interest income
of volume and rate changes for 2009 versus fiscal 2008.         
           Deposits          

(2)  
  Deposits are primarily located in U.S. offices.               Ratios          

N/M Not  
  meaningful     

(1)  
  Based on net income applicable to common shareholders as a percentage of average common equity.           
   233   

Table of Contents  

(2)  
  Based on net income as a percentage of average total equity.     

(3)  
  Dividends declared per common share as a percentage of net income per diluted share.               Short-term Borrowings          

(1)  
  The Company considers its principal trading, investment banking, commissions, and interest and dividend income, along with the associated interest expense, as one
integrated activity for each of the Company s separate businesses and is therefore unable to provide weighted average interest rates for Securities sold under repurchase agreements and Securities loaned. See Note 1 and Note 15 of the
consolidated financial statements for further information.     
           Cross-border Outstandings             Cross-border outstandings are based upon the Federal Financial Institutions
Examination Council s ( FFIEC ) regulatory guidelines for reporting cross-border risk. Claims include cash, receivables, securities purchased under agreements to resell, securities borrowed and cash trading instruments, but exclude
derivative instruments and commitments. Securities purchased under agreements to resell and securities borrowed are presented based on the domicile of the counterparty, without reduction for related securities collateral held.            The following table sets forth cross-border outstandings for each country in
which cross-border outstandings exceed 1% of the Company s consolidated assets or 20% of the Company s total capital, whichever is less, as of December 31, 2009 in accordance with the FFIEC guidelines (dollars in millions):

234   

Table of Contents  

Item 9.   
   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.               None.         

Item 9A.   
   Controls and Procedures.                Conclusion Regarding the Effectiveness of Disclosure Controls and Procedures.             Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief
Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures, as such term is defined under Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e). Based on this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer concluded that
our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this annual report.             Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.        
     Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Morgan Stanley s
internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles.            Our internal control over financial reporting
includes those policies and procedures that:         

Pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of
Morgan Stanley;            

Provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that our receipts and expenditures are being made only in accordance with authorizations of Morgan Stanley s management and directors; and            

Provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of our assets that could have a
material effect on our financial statements.               Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.            Management assessed the effectiveness of Morgan Stanley s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009. In making this
assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in  Internal Control-Integrated Framework . Based on management s assessment and those criteria, management
believes that Morgan Stanley maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009.            Morgan Stanley s independent registered public accounting firm has audited and issued a report on Morgan Stanley s internal control over financial
reporting, which appears below.         
   235   

Table of Contents  

    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm             To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Morgan Stanley:            We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Morgan Stanley
and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The
Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s
Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.            We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an
understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other
procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.            A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and
principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to
the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit
preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and
(3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.            Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial
reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the
effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.            In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all
material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the criteria established in  Internal Control Integrated Framework  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
Treadway Commission.            We have also audited, in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated statement of financial condition of the Company as of December 31, 2009, the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, cash flows and
changes in total equity for the year ended December 31, 2009 and our report dated February 26, 2010 expresses an unqualified opinion on those financial statements and includes explanatory paragraphs concerning the adoption of Financial
Accounting Standards Board accounting guidance that addresses noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements and the computation of Earnings Per Share under the two-class method for share-based payment transactions that are
participating securities and an explanatory paragraph, concerning the Company changing its fiscal year end from November 30 to December 31.         
       
   236   

Table of Contents  

    Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.             No change in Morgan Stanley s internal control over financial reporting
(as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f)) occurred during the quarter ended December 31, 2009 that materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, Morgan Stanley s internal control over financial
reporting.         

Item 9B.    Other   
   Information.               Not applicable.         
   237   

Table of Contents  

      Part III          

Item 10.   
   Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance.            
  Information relating to Morgan Stanley s directors and nominees under the following captions in Morgan Stanley s definitive proxy statement for
its 2010 annual meeting of shareholders ( Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement ) is incorporated by reference herein.         

Item 1 Election of Directors             

Item 1 Election of Directors Board Meetings and Committees                Information relating to Morgan Stanley s executive officers is contained in
Part I, Item 1 of this report under  Executive Officers of Morgan Stanley.             Morgan Stanley s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including its Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Finance Director and
Controller. You can find our Code of Ethics and Business Conduct on our internet site,  www.morganstanley.com/about/company/governance/ms_coe_bc.html . We will post any amendments to the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct, and any waivers that
are required to be disclosed by the rules of either the SEC or the NYSE, on our internet site.         

Item 11.   
   Executive Compensation.               Information relating to director and executive officer compensation under the following captions in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by
reference herein.         

Item 1 Election of Directors Executive Compensation             

Item 1 Election of Directors Director Compensation             
   238   

Table of Contents  

Item 12.   
   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters.               Information relating to equity compensation plans and security ownership of
certain beneficial owners and management is set forth under the captions  Equity Compensation Plan Information  and  Beneficial Ownership of Company Common Stock  in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement and such information is
incorporated by reference herein.         

Item 13.   
   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence.               Information regarding certain relationships and related transactions under the following caption in Morgan Stanley s Proxy
Statement is incorporated by reference herein.         

Other Matters Certain Transactions           
     Information regarding director independence under the following caption in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference
herein.         

Item 1 Election of Directors Corporate Governance Director Independence             

Item 14.   
   Principal Accountant Fees and Services.               Information regarding principal accountant fees and services under the following caption in Morgan Stanley s Proxy Statement is incorporated by
reference herein.         

Item 2 Ratification of Appointment of Morgan Stanley s Independent Auditor  (excluding the information under the subheading
 Audit Committee Report )            
   239   

Table of Contents  

      Part IV          

Item 15.   
   Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules.                 Documents filed as part of this report.           

An exhibit index has been filed as part of this report beginning on page E-1 and is incorporated herein by reference.            
   240   

Table of Contents  

      Signatures             Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on February 26, 2010.          

M ORGAN  S TANLEY      ( REGISTRANT )    
 
  By:  
     
    /s/    J AMES  P. G ORMAN     

(James P. Gorman)     President
and Chief Executive Officer     
         Pursuant to
the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 26th day of February, 2010.         

Signature    
      
     Title     

/s/    J AMES  P.
G ORMAN              (James P. Gorman)   
      
    President and Chief Executive Officer     (Principal Executive Officer)    

/s/    R UTH 
P ORAT              (Ruth Porat)   
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     (Principal Financial Officer)    

/s/    P AUL  C.
W IRTH              (Paul C. Wirth)   
      
    Finance Director and Controller     (Principal Accounting Officer)    

/s/    J OHN  J.
M ACK              (John J. Mack)   
      
    Director     (Chairman of the Board of Directors)    

/s/    R OY  J.
B OSTOCK              (Roy J. Bostock)   
      
  Director   

/s/    E RSKINE  B.
B OWLES              (Erskine B. Bowles)   
      
  Director   

/s/    H OWARD  J.
D AVIES              (Howard J. Davies)   
      
  Director   

/s/    J AMES  H. H ANCE ,
J R .             (James H. Hance, Jr.)   
      
  Director   

/s/    N OBUYUKI 
H IRANO              (Nobuyuki Hirano)   
      
  Director   

/s/    C. R OBERT 
K IDDER              (C. Robert Kidder)   
      
  Director   

/s/    D ONALD  T.
N ICOLAISEN              (Donald T. Nicolaisen)   
      
  Director   

Table of Contents  

Signature    
      
     Title     

/s/    C HARLES  H.
N OSKI              (Charles H. Noski)   
      
  Director   

/s/    H UTHAM  S.
O LAYAN              (Hutham S. Olayan)   
      
  Director   

/s/    C HARLES  E. P HILLIPS ,
J R .             (Charles E. Phillips, Jr.)   
      
  Director   

/s/    O. G RIFFITH 
S EXTON              (O. Griffith Sexton)   
      
  Director   

/s/    L AURA  D A NDREA 
T YSON              (Laura D Andrea Tyson)   
      
  Director          

Table of Contents  

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION      Washington, D.C. 20549            EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K             For the year ended December 31, 2009       Commission File No. 1-11758

Table of Contents  

      Exhibit Index             Certain of the following exhibits, as indicated
parenthetically, were previously filed as exhibits to registration statements filed by Morgan Stanley or its predecessor companies under the Securities Act or to reports or registration statements filed by Morgan Stanley or its predecessor companies
under the Exchange Act and are hereby incorporated by reference to such statements or reports. Morgan Stanley s Exchange Act file number is 1-11758. The Exchange Act file number of Morgan Stanley Group Inc., a predecessor company
( MSG ), was 1-9085.   1            

Exhibit No.   
     
     Description     
 
    3.1  
     
  Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Morgan Stanley, as amended to date (Exhibit 3 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
30, 2009).   

3.2*  
     
  Amended and Restated Bylaws of Morgan Stanley, as amended to date.   

4.1  
     
  Indenture dated as of February 24, 1993 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No.
33-57202)).   

4.2  
     
  Amended and Restated Senior Indenture dated as of May 1, 1999 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-e to Morgan Stanley s Registration
Statement on Form S-3/A (No. 333-75289) as amended by Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of October 8, 2007 (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007).   

4.3  
     
  Senior Indenture dated as of November 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-f to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on Form
S-3/A (No. 333-117752), as amended by First Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 4, 2007 (Exhibit 4.5 to Morgan Stanley s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended November 30, 2007), Second Supplemental Senior
Indenture dated as of January 4, 2008 (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated January 4, 2008), Third Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of September 10, 2008 (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2008), Fourth Supplemental Senior Indenture dated as of December 1, 2008 (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 1, 2008) and Fifth Supplemental Senior Indenture
dated as of April 1, 2009 (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009).   

4.4  
     
  The Unit Agreement Without Holders  Obligations, dated as of August 29, 2008, between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York Mellon, as Unit Agent, as Trustee and Paying Agent
under the Senior Indenture referred to therein and as Warrant Agent under the Warrant Agreement referred to therein (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 29, 2008).   

4.5  
     
  Amended and Restated Subordinated Indenture dated as of May 1, 1999 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-f to Morgan Stanley s
Registration Statement on Form S-3/A (No. 333-75289)).   

4.6  
     
  Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-g to Morgan Stanley s Registration Statement on
Form S-3/A (No. 333-117752)).   

4.7  
     
  Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of March 1, 1998 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 1998).        

(1)  
  For purposes of this Exhibit Index, references to  The Bank of New York  mean in some instances the entity successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. or J.P.
Morgan Trust Company, National Association; references to  JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.  mean the entity formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank, in some instances as the successor to Chemical Bank; references to  J.P. Morgan Trust
Company, N.A.  mean the entity formerly known as Bank One Trust Company, N.A., as successor to The First National Bank of Chicago.           

Table of Contents  

Exhibit No.   
      
     Description     

4.8    
      
  Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 1, 2004 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4-ww to Morgan Stanley s Registration
Statement on Form S-3/A (No. 333-117752)).   

4.9    
      
  Junior Subordinated Indenture dated as of October 12, 2006 between Morgan Stanley and The Bank of New York, as trustee (Exhibit 4.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on
Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006).   

4.10  
      
  Deposit Agreement dated as of July 6, 2006 among Morgan Stanley, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and the holders from time to time of the depositary receipts described therein
(Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2006).   

4.11  
      
  Depositary Receipt for Depositary Shares, representing Floating Rate Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, Series A (included in Exhibit 4.10 hereto).   

4.12  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust III dated as of February 27, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee,
The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee, and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2003).   

4.13  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust IV dated as of April 21, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee, The
Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware Trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended May 31, 2003).   

4.14  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust V dated as of July 16, 2003 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee, The
Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended August 31, 2003).   

4.15  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VI dated as of January 26, 2006 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee,
The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4 to Morgan Stanley s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended February 28, 2006).   

4.16  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VII dated as of October 12, 2006 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee,
The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 12, 2006).   

4.17  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement of Morgan Stanley Capital Trust VIII dated as of April 26, 2007 among Morgan Stanley, as depositor, The Bank of New York, as property trustee,
The Bank of New York (Delaware), as Delaware trustee and the administrators named therein (Exhibit 4.3 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 26, 2007).   

4.18  
      
  Instruments defining the Rights of Security Holders, Including Indentures Except as set forth in Exhibits 4.1 through 4.17 above, the instruments defining the rights of holders
of long-term debt securities of Morgan Stanley and its subsidiaries are omitted pursuant to Section (b)(4)(iii) of Item 601 of Regulation S-K. Morgan Stanley hereby agrees to furnish copies of these instruments to the SEC upon
request.   

10.1  
      
  Amended and Restated Trust Agreement dated as of April 21, 2009 by and between Morgan Stanley and State Street Bank and Trust Company (Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley s
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009).   

10.2  
      
  Securities Purchase Agreement dated as of December 19, 2007 between Morgan Stanley and Best Investment Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of China Investment Corporation
(Exhibit 10.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 19, 2007) as amended by Amendment dated as of October 27, 2008 (Exhibit 99.1 to Morgan Stanley s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 26,
2008).   

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

Table of Contents  

*  
  Filed herewith.     

**  
  Furnished herewith.     

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 15(b).           

Table of Contents  

<EX-3.2>
 2
 dex32.htm
 AMENDED AND RESTATED BYLAWS OF MORGAN STANLEY, AS AMENDED TO DATE

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Morgan Stanley, as amended to date 

EXHIBIT 3.2         As amended January 1, 2010         AMENDED AND RESTATED
       BYLAWS        OF        MORGAN STANLEY        (hereinafter called the  Corporation )        ARTICLE 1        OFFICES AND RECORDS       SECTION 1.01.  Delaware Office . The principal office of the Corporation in the State of Delaware shall be located in the
City of Wilmington, County of New Castle.      SECTION 1.02.  Other Offices . The Corporation may have such other
offices, either within or without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may designate or as the business of the Corporation may from time to time require.       ARTICLE 2        STOCKHOLDERS       SECTION 2.01.  Annual Meeting . The annual meeting of the stockholders of the Corporation shall be held at such date, place
and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.      SECTION 2.02.  Special Meeting . Subject to
the rights of the holders of any series of preferred stock of the Corporation (the  Preferred Stock ) or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, special meetings of the
stockholders may be called at any time only by the Secretary at the direction of the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors.      SECTION 2.03.  Place of Meeting . The Board of Directors may designate the place of meeting for any meeting of the stockholders. If no designation is made by the Board of Directors,
the place of meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation, which will be 1585 Broadway, New York, New York.      SECTION 2.04.  Notice of Meeting . A notice of meeting, stating the place, day and hour of the meeting and, in the case of special meetings, the purpose or purposes for which such special meeting is called, shall be prepared
and delivered by the Corporation not less than ten days nor more than sixty days before the date of the meeting, either personally, or by mail, or, to

the extent and in the manner permitted by applicable law, electronically, to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. Such further notice shall be given as may be
required by law. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation s notice of meeting. Any previously scheduled meeting of the
stockholders may be postponed, and (unless the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be canceled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to
the time previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.      SECTION 2.05.  Quorum and Adjournment . Except
as otherwise provided by law or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of a majority of the voting power of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the
 Voting Stock ), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at a meeting of stockholders, except that when specified business is to be voted on by a class or series voting as a class, the holders of a majority of the
voting power of the shares of such class or series shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of such business. The Chairman of the Board or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of Voting Stock so represented may
adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is such a quorum (or, in the case of specified business to be voted on by a class or series, the Chairman of the Board or the holders of a majority of the voting power of the shares of such
class or series so represented may adjourn the meeting with respect to such specified business). No notice of the time and place of adjourned meetings need be given except as required by law. The stockholders present at a duly organized
meeting may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.      SECTION 2.06.  Proxies . At all meetings of stockholders, a stockholder may vote by proxy as may be permitted by law; provided, that no proxy shall be voted after three years from its date,
unless the proxy provides for a longer period. Any proxy to be used at a meeting of stockholders must be filed with the Secretary of the Corporation or his representative at or before the time of the meeting.      SECTION 2.07.  Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations .      (a) Annual Meetings of Stockholders.      (i) Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the Corporation and the proposal of other business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of
stockholders only (A) pursuant to the Corporation s notice of meeting delivered pursuant to Section 2.04 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws (or any supplement thereto), (B) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or
(C) by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complied with the notice procedures set forth in clauses (ii) and (iii) of this Section 2.07(a) and who was a stockholder of record on the date
such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation.         
   2   

(ii) For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a
stockholder pursuant to clause (C) of paragraph (a) (i) of this Section 2.07, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and, in the case of business other than
nominations, such other business must otherwise be a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder s notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the
close of business on the ninetieth day, nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year s annual meeting; provided however, that if the date of the annual meeting is
advanced by more than thirty days, or delayed by more than ninety days, from such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such
annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the
Corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder s notice as described in this
Section 2.07(a). Such stockholder s notice shall set forth (A) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in
solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), including such
person s written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (B) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the
business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and if such business includes a proposal to amend the Amended and Restated Bylaws of the
Corporation, the text of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting, and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and
(C) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (1) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation s books, and of such
beneficial owner, (2) the class or series and number of shares of the Corporation that are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (3) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding
with respect to the nomination or proposal between or among such stockholder and such beneficial owner, any of their respective affiliates or associates, and any others acting in concert with any of the foregoing, (4) a description of any
agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, warrants, stock appreciation or similar rights, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of
the date of the stockholder s notice by, or on behalf of, such stockholder and such beneficial owners, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss to, manage risk or benefit of share price changes for, or increase or decrease the voting
power of, such stockholder or such beneficial owner, with respect to shares of stock of the Corporation, (5) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to
appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (6) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner,
        
   3   

if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation s outstanding capital
stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination. The foregoing notice requirements of this Section 2.07 shall be
deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of the stockholder s intention to present a proposal or nomination at an annual meeting in compliance with applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the
Exchange Act and such stockholder s proposal or nomination has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. The Corporation may require any proposed nominee to
furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation and the impact that such service would have on the ability of the Corporation to satisfy the
requirements of laws, rules, regulations and listing standards applicable to the Corporation or its directors.      (iii)
Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of clause (ii) of this Section 2.07(a) to the contrary, if the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors of the Corporation is increased effective at the annual meeting and
the public announcement by the Corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships is not made by the close of business on the one hundredth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year s annual meeting, a
stockholder s notice required by this Section 2.07 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new directorships created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive
offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.      (b) Special Meetings of Stockholders.      Only such business shall be conducted at a
special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation s notice of meeting pursuant to Section 2.04 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws. Subject to the rights of the holders of
Preferred Stock, nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation s notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction
of the Board of Directors or (ii) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is entitled to vote at the meeting, who complies with the notice
procedures set forth in this Section 2.07 and who is a stockholder of record at the time such notice is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation. If the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing
one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any stockholder entitled to vote in such election may nominate such number of persons for election to such position(s) as are specified in the Corporation s Notice of Meeting, if the
stockholder s notice as required by clause (ii) of Section 2.07(a) of these Amended and Restated Bylaws shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business
on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such
        
   4   

special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such
meeting is first made by the Corporation. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder s notice as
described above.      (c) General.      (i) Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Bylaw shall be eligible to be elected as directors at an annual or special meeting of stockholders and only such
business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.07. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Amended and Restated
Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, the Chairman of the Board shall have the power and duty to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed in accordance
with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.07 (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (or is part of a group which solicited) did or did not so solicit, as the case
may be, proxies in support of such stockholder s nominee or proposal in compliance with such stockholder s representation as required by clause (a)(ii)(C)(6) of this Section 2.07) and, if any proposed nomination or business is not in
compliance with this Section 2.07, to declare that such defective proposal or nomination shall be disregarded. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.07, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a
qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not
be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 2.07, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly
authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of
stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.      (ii) For purposes of this Bylaw,  public announcement  shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News
Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.      (iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.07, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements
of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 2.07; provided, however, that any references in these Bylaws to the Exchange Act or the rules promulgated thereunder are not
intended to and shall not limit any requirements (including paragraphs (a)(i)(C) and (b) of this Section 2.07) applicable to stockholder nominations or proposals as to any other business to be
        
   5   

considered pursuant to this Section 2.07 and compliance with paragraphs (a)(i)(C) and (b) of this Section 2.07 shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or
submit proposals for any other business to be considered at an annual or special meeting of stockholders (other than, as provided in the penultimate sentence of (a)(ii), matters brought properly under and in compliance with Rule 14a-8 of the
Exchange Act, as may be amended from time to time). Nothing in this Section 2.07 shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals in the Corporation s proxy statement pursuant to
applicable rules and regulations under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, to elect directors
pursuant to any applicable provisions of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.      SECTION
2.08.  Procedure For Election of Directors; Voting.  Except as otherwise provided by law or pursuant to any regulation applicable to the Corporation or its securities, the rules or regulations of any stock exchange applicable to the
Corporation, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all matters other than the election of directors submitted to the stockholders at any meeting shall be decided by the affirmative vote of a
majority of the voting power of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereon, and where a separate vote by class is required, a majority of the voting power of the shares of that class present in
person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote thereon.      The vote on any matter, including the election of
directors, shall be by written ballot. Each ballot shall be signed by the stockholder voting, or by such stockholder s proxy, and shall state the number of shares voted.      SECTION 2.09.  Inspector of Elections; Opening and Closing of Polls; Conduct of Meetings.       (a) The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may not be directors,
officers or employees of the Corporation, to act at the meeting and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has
been appointed to act, or if all inspectors or alternates who have been appointed are unable to act, at a meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the Board shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before
discharging his or her duties, shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of his or her ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by the General
Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.      (b) The Chairman of the Board shall fix and announce at the meeting the date
and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at the meeting.         
   6   

(c) The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the
conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the person presiding over any meeting of stockholders shall have the
right and authority to convene and to adjourn the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such presiding person, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such
rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the presiding person of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the
meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized
and constituted proxies or such other persons as the presiding person of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to
questions or comments by participants. The presiding person at any meeting of stockholders, in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare
to the meeting that a matter or business was not properly brought before the meeting and if such presiding person should so determine, such presiding person shall so declare to the meeting and any such matter or business not properly brought before
the meeting shall not be transacted or considered. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the person presiding over the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of
parliamentary procedure.      SECTION 2.10.  Confidential Stockholder Voting.  All proxies, ballots and votes, in
each case to the extent they disclose the specific vote of an identified stockholder, shall be tabulated and certified by an independent tabulator, inspector of elections and/or other independent parties and shall not be disclosed to any director,
officer or employee of the Corporation;  provided, however,  that, notwithstanding the foregoing, any and all proxies, ballots, and voting tabulations may be disclosed: (a) as necessary to meet legal requirements or to assist in the
pursuit or defense of legal action; (b) if the Corporation concludes in good faith that a bona fide dispute exists as to the authenticity of one or more proxies, ballots or votes, or as to the accuracy of any tabulation of such proxies, ballots
or votes; (c) in the event of a proxy, consent or other solicitation in opposition to the voting recommendation of the Board of Directors; and (d) if the stockholder requests, or consents to disclosure of the stockholder s vote or
writes comments on the stockholder s proxy card or ballot.       ARTICLE 3        BOARD OF DIRECTORS       SECTION 3.01.  General Powers . The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of its Board of Directors. In addition to the powers and authorities by these Amended and Restated
Bylaws expressly conferred upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of the Corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or by the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or by these Amended and
Restated Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.         
   7   

SECTION 3.02.  Number, Tenure and Qualifications . (a) Subject to the rights
of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock, or any other series or class of stock as set forth in the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, to elect directors ( Preferred Stock Directors ) under specified circumstances,
the number of directors shall be fixed from time to time exclusively pursuant to a resolution adopted by the Board of Directors, but shall consist of not less than three nor more than fifteen directors (exclusive of Preferred Stock
Directors). However, no decrease in the number of directors constituting the Board of Directors shall shorten the term of any incumbent director.      (b) Except as otherwise provided in this Section 3.02, each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to that director s election at any meeting
for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, provided that if, as of the tenth day preceding the date the Corporation first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders of the Corporation, the number of nominees
exceeds the number of directors to be elected (a  Contested Election ), the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast. For purposes of this Section 3.02, a majority of votes cast shall mean that the
number of votes cast  for  a director s election exceeds the number of votes cast  against  that director s election (with  abstentions  and  broker nonvotes  not counted as a vote cast either
 for  or  against  that director s election).      (c) In order for any incumbent director to become
a nominee of the Board of Directors for further service on the Board of Directors, such person must submit an irrevocable resignation, provided that such resignation shall be effective if (i) that person shall not receive a majority of the
votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, and (ii) the Board of Directors shall accept that resignation in accordance with the policies and procedures adopted by the Board of Directors for such purpose. In the event an
incumbent director fails to receive a majority of the votes cast in an election that is not a Contested Election, the nominating and governance committee of the Board of Directors, or such other committee designated by the Board of Directors
pursuant to Section 3.09 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, shall make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the resignation of such incumbent director, or whether other action should be taken. The
Board of Directors shall act on the resignation, taking into account the committee s recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release and filing an appropriate disclosure with the Securities and Exchange Commission) its decision
regarding the resignation and, if such resignation is rejected, the rationale behind the decision within 90 days following certification of the election results.      (d) If the Board of Directors accepts a director s resignation pursuant to this Section 3.02, or if a nominee for director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent director, then
the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to ARTICLE VII of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of this Section 3.02.
     SECTION 3.03.  Regular Meetings . The Board of Directors may, by resolution, provide the time and place for
the holding of regular meetings without other notice than such resolution. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all regular meetings of the
Board of Directors and in the absence of the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary, a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.         
   8   

SECTION 3.04.  Special Meetings . Special meetings of the Board of Directors
shall be called at the request of the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, or a majority of the Board of Directors. The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of
the meetings. Unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all special meetings of the Board of Directors and in the absence of the Secretary and any
Assistant Secretary, a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.      SECTION
3.05.  Notice . Notice of any special meeting shall be mailed to each director at his business or residence not later than three days before the day on which such meeting is to be held or shall be sent to either of such places by
telegraph or facsimile or other electronic transmission, or subject to Section 8.01 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, be communicated to each director personally or by telephone (including without limitation to a representative of the
director or to the director s electronic voice message system), not later than the day before such day of meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need
be specified in the notice of such meeting, except for amendments to these Amended and Restated Bylaws as provided pursuant to Section 8.01 hereof. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present (except
as otherwise provided by law) or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Section 6.04 hereof, either before or after such meeting.      SECTION 3.06.  Action Without Meeting . Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if
all members of the Board or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic transmission and the writing or writings or electronic transmission or transmissions are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board or
committee.      SECTION 3.07.  Conference Telephone Meetings . Members of the Board of Directors, or any committee
thereof, may participate in a meeting of the Board of Directors or such committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such
participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting.      SECTION 3.08.  Quorum.  At all
meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the total number of directors specified in the resolution pursuant to Section 3.02 of these Amended and Restated Bylaws which the Corporation would have if there were no vacancies or unfilled
newly-created directorships (such total number of Directors, the  entire Board of Directors ) shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. At all meetings of the committees of the Board of Directors, the presence of 50%
or more of the total number of members (assuming no vacancies or unfilled newly created committee positions) shall constitute a quorum. The vote of a majority of the directors or committee members present at any meeting at which there is a
        
   9   

quorum shall be the act of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, except as otherwise provided in the Delaware General Corporation Law, the Amended and Restated Certificate
of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee, a majority of the directors or members, as the case may be, present thereat may adjourn the
meeting from time to time without further notice other than announcement at the meeting.      SECTION
3.09.  Committees . (a) The Corporation shall have four standing committees: the nominating and governance committee, the audit committee, the risk committee and the compensation, management development and succession
committee. Each such standing committee shall consist of such number of directors of the Corporation and shall have such powers and authority as shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.      (b) In addition, the Board of Directors may designate one or more additional committees, with each such committee consisting of such
number of directors of the Corporation and having such powers and authority as shall be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.      (c) All acts done by any committee within the scope of its powers and authority pursuant to these Amended and Restated Bylaws and the resolutions adopted by the Board of Directors in accordance with
the terms hereof shall be deemed to be, and may be certified as being, done or conferred under authority of the Board of Directors. The Secretary or any Assistant Secretary is empowered to certify that any resolution duly adopted by any such
committee is binding upon the Corporation and to execute and deliver such certifications from time to time as may be necessary or proper to the conduct of the business of the Corporation.      (d) Regular meetings of committees shall be held at such times as may be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors or the
committee in question and no notice shall be required for any regular meeting other than such resolution. A special meeting of any committee shall be called by resolution of the Board of Directors, or by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary
upon the request of the chairman or a majority of the members of such committee. Notice of special meetings shall be given to each member of the committee in the same manner as that provided for in Section 3.05 of these Amended and
Restated Bylaws.      SECTION 3.10.  Committee Members . (a) Each member of any committee of the Board of
Directors shall hold office until such member s successor is elected and has qualified, unless such member sooner dies, resigns or is removed.      (b) The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee to fill any vacancy on a committee and to fill a vacant chairmanship of a committee, occurring as
a result of a member or chairman leaving the committee, whether through death, resignation, removal or otherwise.      SECTION
3.11.  Committee Secretary . Each committee may elect a secretary for such committee. Unless otherwise determined by the committee, the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Corporation shall act as secretary at all regular
meetings and special meetings of the committee, and in the absence of the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary a temporary secretary shall be appointed by the chairman of the meeting.         
   10   

SECTION 3.12.  Compensation . The directors may be paid their expenses, if
any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid compensation as director, lead director or chairman of any committee and for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors. Members of special or standing
committees may be allowed like compensation and payment of expenses for attending committee meetings.       ARTICLE 4
       OFFICERS       SECTION 4.01.  General . The officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors and shall consist of: a Chairman of the Board; a Chief Executive Officer; a President; a
Chief Financial Officer; a Chief Risk Officer; a Chief Legal Officer; a Chief Administrative Officer; a Chief Operating Officer; one or more Executive Vice Presidents; a Secretary; one or more Assistant Secretaries; a Treasurer; one or more
Assistant Treasurers; a Controller; and such other officers as in the judgment of the Board of Directors may be necessary or desirable, including one or more Vice Chairmen; one or more Senior Vice Presidents; and one or more Vice
Presidents. All officers chosen by the Board of Directors shall have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this Article 4. Such officers shall also have powers and duties
as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or any committee thereof. Any number of offices may be held by the same person, unless otherwise prohibited by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these
Amended and Restated Bylaws. The officers of the Corporation need not be stockholders or directors of the Corporation, except that the Chairman of the Board and the Chief Executive Officer shall be members of the Board of Directors.   
  SECTION 4.02.  Election and Term of Office . The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected annually by the
Board of Directors at the regular meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of the stockholders. If the election of officers shall not be held at such meeting, such election shall be held as soon thereafter as
convenient. Each officer shall hold office until his successor shall have been duly elected and shall have qualified or until his death or until he shall resign or be removed.      SECTION 4.03.  Chairman of the Board . The Board of Directors may elect from among its members an officer designated as the Chairman of
the Board, but the appointment of a Chairman of the Board shall not be required. If a Chairman of the Board shall be elected, then the Chairman of the Board shall have such duties and authority as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors from
time to time. In general the Chairman of the Board shall perform all duties incident to the position of chairman of the board or as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws from time to time. The Chairman of
the Board, if present, shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors and at all meetings of the stockholders of the Corporation. In the absence or disability of the Chairman of the Board, the duties of the Chairman of the Board
(including presiding at all meetings of the Board of Directors and at all meetings of the Corporation) shall be performed and the authority of the Chairman of the Board may be exercised by a director designated for this purpose by the Board of
Directors.         
   11   

SECTION 4.04.  Chief Executive Officer.  The Chief Executive Officer shall be a
member of the Board of Directors and shall be an officer of the Corporation. The Chief Executive Officer shall supervise, coordinate and manage the Corporation s business and activities and supervise, coordinate and manage its operating
expenses and capital allocation, shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of
Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors.      SECTION 4.05.  President.  The President shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the President of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have
such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive
Officer. The office of President may, at any time and from time to time, be held by one or more persons. If the office of President is held by more than one person, each person holding such office shall serve as a Co-President and each
Co-President shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the President of the Corporation and shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and
Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.      SECTION 4.06.  Chief Operating Officer.  The Chief Operating Officer shall have general authority to exercise all the powers necessary for the Chief Operating Officer of the Corporation and
shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of
Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.      SECTION 4.07.  Chief Financial Officer . The Chief Financial
Officer shall have responsibility for the financial affairs of the Corporation and shall exercise supervisory responsibility for the performance of the duties of the Treasurer and the Controller. The Chief Financial Officer shall perform such
other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chief
Executive Officer.      SECTION 4.08.  Chief Risk Officer . The Chief Risk Officer shall have the responsibility
for the risk management and monitoring of the Corporation. The Chief Risk Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance with
basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.         
   12   

SECTION 4.09.  Chief Legal Officer . The Chief Legal Officer shall have
responsibility for the legal affairs of the Corporation. The Chief Legal Officer shall perform such other duties and have such other powers as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, all in accordance
with basic policies as established by and subject to the oversight of the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer.      SECTION 4.10.  Vacancies . A newly created office and a vacancy in any office because of death, resignation, or removal may be filled by the Board of Directors for the unexpired portion of the terms at any meeting of the
Board of Directors.       ARTICLE 5        STOCK CERTIFICATES AND TRANSFERS       SECTION 5.01.  Stock Certificates
and Transfers . (a) The interest of each stockholder of the Corporation shall be evidenced by certificates representing shares of stock in such form as the appropriate officers of the Corporation may from time to time prescribe;
provided that the Board of Directors may provide by resolution or resolutions that all or some of all classes or series of the stock of the Corporation shall be represented by uncertificated shares. Every holder of stock represented by
certificates shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman of the Board, or the President or any Vice President or by the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, or the Secretary or an Assistant
Secretary of the Corporation representing the number of shares registered in certificate form.      (b) The shares of the
stock of the Corporation represented by certificates shall be transferred on the books of the Corporation by the holder thereof in person or by his attorney, upon surrender for cancellation of certificates representing the same number of shares,
with an assignment and power of transfer endorsed thereon or attached thereto, duly executed, with such proof of the authenticity of the signature as the Corporation or its agents may reasonably require. Upon receipt of proper transfer
instructions from the registered owner of uncertificated shares such uncertificated shares shall be canceled and issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares shall be made to the person entitled thereto and the transaction shall be recorded upon
the books of the Corporation. Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of uncertificated stock, the Corporation shall send to the registered owner thereof a written notice containing the information required to be set forth or
stated on certificates pursuant to the Delaware General Corporation Law or, unless otherwise provided by the Delaware General Corporation Law, a statement that the Corporation will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the
powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.         
   13   

SECTION 5.02.  Lost, Stolen or Destroyed Certificates . No certificate for
shares or uncertificated shares of stock in the Corporation shall be issued in place of any certificate alleged to have been lost, destroyed or stolen, except on production of such evidence of such loss, destruction or theft and on delivery to the
Corporation of a bond of indemnity in such amount, upon such terms and secured by such surety, as the Board of Directors or its designee may in its or his discretion require.       ARTICLE 6        MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS    
  SECTION 6.01.  Fiscal Year . The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be as specified by the Board of Directors.
     SECTION 6.02.  Dividends . The Board of Directors may from time to time declare, and the Corporation may pay,
dividends on its outstanding shares in the manner and upon the terms and conditions provided by law and its Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation.      SECTION 6.03.  Seal . The corporate seal shall have thereon the name of the Corporation and shall be in such form as may be approved from time to time by the Board of Directors or by any
officer authorized to do so by the Board of Directors.      SECTION 6.04.  Waiver of Notice . Whenever any notice
is required to be given to any stockholder or director of the Corporation under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, a waiver thereof in writing, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, or a waiver
by electronic transmission by the person entitled to notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any annual or
special meeting of the stockholders or any meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof need be specified in any waiver of notice of such meeting. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting,
except when the person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.      SECTION 6.05.  Audits . The accounts, books and records of the Corporation shall be audited upon the conclusion of each
fiscal year by an independent certified public accountant.      SECTION 6.06.  Resignations . Any director or any
officer, whether elected or appointed, may resign at any time upon notice of such resignation to the Corporation.      SECTION
6.07.  Indemnification and Insurance .      (a) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a
party to or is involved in any manner in any threatened, pending or completed claim, action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a  proceeding ),
        
   14   

by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the Corporation or a director or elected officer of a Subsidiary,
shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent permitted from time to time by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, if permitted by applicable law,
in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) or any other applicable laws as
presently or hereafter in effect, and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director or officer and shall inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; provided however, that the
Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors or is a proceeding to
enforce such person s claim to indemnification pursuant to the rights granted by this Bylaw. The Corporation shall pay the expenses incurred by such person in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition upon receipt
(unless the Corporation upon authorization of the Board of Directors waives such requirement to the extent permitted by applicable law) of an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that
such person is not entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation as authorized in this Bylaw or otherwise.      (b) The
indemnification and the advancement of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding prior to its final disposition provided by, or granted pursuant to, this Bylaw shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter
acquire under any statute, provision of the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, other provision of these Amended and Restated Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal,
modification or amendment of, or adoption of any provision inconsistent with, this Section 6.07, nor to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, any modification of law, shall adversely affect any right or protection of any person
granted pursuant hereto existing at, or with respect to, arising out of or related to any event, act or omission that occurred prior to, the time of such repeal, modification, amendment or adoption (regardless of when any proceeding (or part
thereof) relating to such event, act or omission arises or is first threatened, commenced or completed).      (c) The
Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any person who is or was a director, officer, partner, member, employee or agent of the Corporation or a Subsidiary or of another corporation, partnership, limited liability
company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the
State of Delaware.      (d) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant
rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any person who is or was an employee or agent (other than a director or officer) of the
Corporation or a Subsidiary and to any person who is or was serving at the request of the Corporation or a Subsidiary as a
        
   15   

director, officer, partner, member, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to
employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by the Corporation or a Subsidiary, to the fullest extent of the provisions of this Bylaw with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation.
     (e) The Corporation s obligation, if any, to indemnify or to advance expenses to any person who was or is serving
at its request as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise shall be reduced by any amount such person shall collect as indemnification or advancement of expenses from such
other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise.      (f) If any provision or provisions of this
Bylaw shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, the legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph or
clause of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest
extent possible, the provisions of this Bylaw (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Bylaw containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the
intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.      (g) For purposes of these Amended and
Restated Bylaws:      (1)  Disinterested Director  means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a
party to the proceeding or matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.      (2)  Subsidiary  means any corporation, trust, limited liability company or other non-corporate business enterprise in which the Corporation directly or indirectly holds ownership interests representing (A) more than 50%
of the voting power of all outstanding ownership interests of such entity (other than directors  qualifying shares, in the case of a corporation) or (B) the right to receive more than 50% of the net assets of such entity available for
distribution to the holders of outstanding ownership interests upon a liquidation or dissolution of such entity.      (h) Any
notice, request, or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this Bylaw shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or
registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary or the Chief Legal Officer or any designee of the Secretary or the Chief Legal Officer and shall be effective only upon receipt by such officer or designee.         
   16   

ARTICLE 7        CONTRACTS, PROXIES, ETC.       SECTION 7.01.  Contracts . Except
as otherwise required by law, the Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation or these Amended and Restated Bylaws, any contracts or other instruments may be executed and delivered in the name and on the behalf of the Corporation by such
officer or officers of the Corporation as the Board of Directors may from time to time direct. Such authority may be general or confined to specific instances as the Board may determine. Subject to the control and direction of the Board of
Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Risk Officer, the Chief Legal Officer and the Treasurer may enter into, execute, deliver and amend bonds, promissory notes,
contracts, agreements, deeds, leases, guarantees, loans, commitments, obligations, liabilities and other instruments to be made or executed for or on behalf of the Corporation. Subject to any restrictions imposed by the Board of Directors, such
officers of the Corporation may delegate such powers to others under his or her jurisdiction, it being understood, however, that any such delegation of power shall not relieve such officer of responsibility with respect to the exercise of such
delegated power.      SECTION 7.02.  Proxies . Unless otherwise provided by resolution adopted by the Board of
Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the Chief Executive Officer or the President may from time to time appoint an attorney or attorneys or agent or agents of the Corporation, in the name and behalf of the Corporation, to cast the votes which the
Corporation may be entitled to cast as the holder of stock or other securities in any other corporation or entity, any of whose stock or other securities may be held by the Corporation, at meetings of the holders of the stock or other securities of
such other corporation or entity, or to consent in writing, in the name of the Corporation as such holder, to any action by such other corporation or entity, and may instruct the person or persons so appointed as to the manner of casting such vote
or giving such consent, and may execute or cause to be executed in the name and on behalf of the Corporation and under its corporate seal or otherwise, all such written proxies or other instruments as he may deem necessary or proper in the premises.
      ARTICLE 8        AMENDMENTS       SECTION 8.01.  Amendments . These Amended and
Restated Bylaws may be altered, amended or repealed, in whole or in part, or new Amended and Restated Bylaws may be adopted by the stockholders or by the Board of Directors at any meeting thereof; provided however, that notice of such alteration,
amendment, repeal or adoption of new Amended and Restated Bylaws is contained in the notice of such meeting of stockholders or in the notice of such meeting of the Board of Directors and, in the latter case, such notice is given not less than
twenty-four hours prior to the meeting.         
   17   

</EX-3.2>

<EX-10.9>
 3
 dex109.htm
 AMENDMENT TO MORGAN STANLEY 401(K) PLAN, DATED AS OF DECEMBER 29, 2009

Amendment to Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan, dated as of December 29, 2009 

Exhibit 10.9        AMENDMENT TO        MORGAN STANLEY 401(k) PLAN
      Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated (the  Corporation ) hereby amends the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Plan
(the  401(k) Plan ) as follows:      1. Effective January 1, 2010, Section 2, Definitions, shall be amended by
deleting clause (f) in the third sentence of the first paragraph of the definition of  Earnings  and inserting the following in lieu thereof:       (f)(1) for a Participant whose employment with the Affiliated Group terminates on or after January 1, 2010,
amounts paid after the 10   th    day of the month following the
month in which the Participant s employment with the Affiliated Group terminates; (2) for a Participant whose employment with the Affiliated Group terminates on or before December 1, 2009, amounts paid more than 30 days after the date
on which the Participant s employment with the Affiliated Group terminates; and (3) for a Participant whose employment terminates within the 30 days prior to January 1, 2010, the provision in (f)(1) or (f)(2) that results in the
larger amount of Earnings for such Participant,       2. Effective November 30, 2009, Section 2, Definitions, shall
be amended by adding the following at the end of the definitions of  Discover Stock Fund  and  Investment Funds :       Effective November 30, 2009, the Discover Stock Fund shall no longer be an Investment Fund under the Plan.       3. Effective December 23, 2009, Section 5(a)(iii), Catch-Up Contributions, is amended by inserting the following as the penultimate sentence thereof:       Effective December 23, 2009, to the extent permitted by the Plan Administrator, catch-up contributions made by a Participant may be designated as Roth catch-up contributions, which shall be
separately accounted for by the Plan Administrator.       4. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 5(d), Distribution
of Excess Elective Deferrals, is amended by deleting the parenthetical phrase in the third sentence thereof and inserting  (adjusted for any income or loss allocable through the end of the tax year for which such Excess Elective Deferral was
made)  in lieu thereof.      5. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 5(f)(i), Distribution of Excess Contributions, is
amended by deleting the phrase  up to the date of distribution  in the second sentence thereof and inserting  through the end of the tax year in which such Excess Contribution is made  in lieu thereof.      6. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 5(h)(i), Distribution of Excess Aggregate Contributions, is amended by deleting the word
 thereto  in the first sentence thereof and inserting  through the end of the tax year in which such Excess Aggregate Contribution is made  in lieu thereof.   

7. Effective January 1, 2009, Sections 5(i)(iii)(2) and 5(j), shall be amended by
inserting the following at the end thereof:       Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Plan shall not accept
any Rollover Contribution from another plan sponsored or maintained by the Company or any member of the Company s Affiliated Group.       8. Effective December 23, 2009, Section 5(k), Salary Reduction and Tax Status of Pre-Tax Contributions, is amended by inserting the parenthetical  (other than Roth catch-up
contributions)  immediately following the reference to catch-up contributions therein.      9. Effective November 30,
2009, Sections 7(b)(i), 11(a)(i), 12(c), 12(e) and 12(g)(iii) shall be amended by inserting the following immediately following each reference to the  Discover Stock Fund  and  Discover Stock  therein:       (but only through November 30, 2009)       10. Effective October 23, 2009, Section 7(b)(ii)(2), shall be amended by deleting the third paragraph thereof and inserting the following in lieu thereof:       The Discover Stock Fund is terminated as an investment under the Plan effective November 30, 2009. Any assets
remaining in the Discover Stock Fund as of the day that is one day after the announcement by Morgan Stanley of 3   rd 
   quarter, 2009 earnings (but no earlier than October 23, 2009), shall be liquidated according to a schedule determined by the Plan Administrator and the proceeds of such liquidation
shall be reinvested in units of the Morgan Stanley Stock Fund. Notwithstanding the foregoing, for any Participant who is obligated to file reports under section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the proceeds of such liquidation shall be
invested in the qualified default investment alternative established under Section 7(d)(i) of the Plan applicable to such Participant.       11. Effective November 30, 2009, the first two paragraphs of Section 7(b)(ii)(2) shall be deleted.      12. Effective November 30, 2009, Section 8(d)(v), Voting and Tendering of Discover Stock, shall be amended by adding the following to the end thereof:       Effective November 30, 2009, this Section 8(d)(v) shall no longer be operative.       13. Effective January 1, 2008, Section 10(a), Amount of Benefit, is amended by inserting the following immediately after the first
sentence thereof:       Notwithstanding anything in this Section 10(a) to the contrary, vesting is provided under the
Plan to the extent required under Code section 411(a).       14. Effective June 1, 2009, Section 10(a)(iii), Vesting
in Cash Dividends, is amended by deleting the phrase  with respect to which  in the first sentence thereof and inserting the phrase  without regard to whether  in lieu thereof.         
   2   

15. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 11(g), Optional Direct Rollover of Eligible
Rollover Distributions, is amended by deleting subsection (i) and inserting the following in lieu thereof:       (i) A
participant who receives a distribution described in Section 11(a) or a withdrawal described in Section 12 may direct the Plan Administrator to directly roll over all or any portion of the distribution or withdrawal as permitted by Code
sections 401(a)(31) and 402(c).      16. Effective January 1, 2007, Section 11(g), Optional Direct Rollover of Eligible
Rollover Distributions, is amended by deleting the second sentence of subsection (ii) and inserting the following in lieu thereof:       However, such portion may be transferred only as permitted in Code section 402(c)(2).       17. Effective
January 1, 2010, Section 12(g)(v), Loan Repayment Terms, is amended by inserting the following after the sixth sentence thereof:       Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January 1, 2010, in the discretion of the Plan Administrator on a nondiscriminatory basis, the note may provide (or may be amended to provide) that if a
Participant with an outstanding loan terminates employment as a result of a Release, such Participant may continue making loan repayments directly to the Benefit Center for up to the lesser of (1) the remainder of the period of such loan or
(2) a period of one year after such Participant s termination of employment and that any outstanding principal and interest due at the end of such period shall be paid immediately thereafter.       * * * * * * * * *      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Amendment to be executed on its behalf as of this 29   th    day of December, 2009.        

MORGAN STANLEY   CO.     INCORPORATED    

By:  
     
    /s/ KAREN JAMESLEY    
 
  Title:  
     
  Global Head of Human Resources    
      
   3   

</EX-10.9>

<EX-10.11>
 4
 dex1011.htm
 AMENDMENT TO MORGAN STANLEY 401(K) SAVINGS PLAN, DATED AS OF DECEMBER 29, 2009

Amendment to Morgan Stanley 401(k) Savings Plan, dated as of December 29, 2009 

Exhibit 10.11        AMENDMENT TO        MORGAN STANLEY 401(k) SAVINGS PLAN
      Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated (the  Corporation ) hereby amends the Morgan Stanley 401(k) Savings
Plan (the  401(k) Savings Plan ) as follows:      1. Effective December 23, 2009, Section 2, Definitions, shall
be amended by inserting after the definition of  Affiliated Group  a new definition of  After-Tax Contributions  as follows:        After-Tax Contributions   means the contributions so described in Section 5(a)(ii).       2. Effective January 1, 2010, Section 2, Definitions, shall be amended by inserting the following at the end of the definition of  Earnings :       Effective January 1, 2010, Earnings of a Participant means base salary, cash bonuses, commissions, overtime
and other cash compensation paid by a Participating Company to a Participant for services rendered as an Eligible Employee. Earnings also include any salary reduction amounts elected by a Participant pursuant to an arrangement maintained by a
Participating Company under Code section 401(k), 125 or 132(f)(4). Earnings exclude, without limitation: (a) earnings paid for any period prior to the date an Employee becomes an Eligible Employee or during a period the Employee is not an
Eligible Employee, (b) non-cash compensation, (c) imputed income, (d) cash payments made to or on behalf of a Participant for an employment-related expense or in the nature of an allowance, such as medical or expense reimbursements,
cost of living, relocation or transition allowances, tax equalization or gross-up payments and employee referrals, (e) amounts payable under continued service bonus agreements (generally payable by the fourth anniversary of hire),
(f) amounts paid after the 10   th    day of the month
following the month in which the Participant s employment with the Affiliated Group terminates, (g) any amounts paid as severance award or settlement in connection with an Employee s termination of employment, and (h) any amounts
paid under any plan or payroll practice on account of retirement, disability or death of an Employee or his/her dependents. In addition, with respect to deferred (other than under Code section 401(k)) or executive compensation, Earnings
(i) will not include any such amount when awarded, contributed or deferred, (ii) will not include periodic distributions of earnings or dividend equivalents, such as dividend equivalent payments under the Morgan Stanley Equity Incentive
Compensation Plan, (iii) will not include amounts that are paid in settlement of an award or deferral, and (iv) will not include any payment or deferral in respect of a carried interest plan or a profits participation plan maintained by
Morgan Stanley Real Estate

Funds. Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event will Earnings include amounts that are not considered  compensation  for purposes of Code section 415 and the regulations promulgated
thereunder.       If any person should receive Earnings during the same payroll period from a Participating Company and also
from a Foreign Subsidiary, and if such person is considered an Eligible Employee pursuant to the third sentence of the definition of that term, the aggregate amount so received shall be treated as his or her Earnings.       Notwithstanding the foregoing, the annual Earnings of each Participant taken into account under the Plan, including in determining the
Pre-Tax Contributions, After-Tax Contributions and Roth Elective Deferrals a Participant may elect to contribute and, except as otherwise provided below, in determining Company Contributions, shall not exceed the compensation limit under Code
section 401(a)(17), as adjusted for cost-of-living increases in accordance with Code section 401(a)(17)(B). In addition, the annual Earnings taken into account in determining allocations of Fixed Contributions to an eligible Participant for any
given Plan Year shall not exceed $100,000.       3. Effective June 1, 2009, Section 2, Definitions, shall be amended
by inserting the following at the end of the definition of  Testing Compensation :       Notwithstanding the
foregoing, any base salary, cash bonuses, commissions, overtime or other compensation paid after a Participant s severance from employment may be included in Testing Compensation to the extent permitted by Code section 415(c) and the
regulations thereunder and designated by the Plan Administrator on a nondiscriminatory basis.       4. Effective
January 1, 2010, Section 2, Definitions, shall be amended by inserting the following at the end of the definition of  Testing Compensation :       Effective January 1, 2010,  Testing Compensation  means the total compensation actually paid to an Eligible Employee for a Plan Year by the Affiliated Group member that employs the
Eligible Employee, as reported on the Internal Revenue Service Form W-2 (or its equivalent) issued with respect to the Eligible Employee, plus any elective deferrals or contributions made with respect to the Eligible Employee as described in Code
section 415(c)(3)(D), including elective deferrals or contributions under Code section 401(k), 125 or 132(f)(4) under a plan of the Affiliated Group member, provided that, to the extent applicable, the annual compensation of an Eligible Employee
taken into account shall not exceed the $200,000 compensation limit under Code section 401(a)(17), as adjusted for cost-of-living increases in accordance with Code section 401(a)(17)(B). Any base salary, cash bonuses, commissions, overtime or

other compensation paid after a Participant s severance from employment may be included in Testing Compensation to the extent permitted by Code section 415(c) and the regulations thereunder
and designated by the Plan Administrator on a nondiscriminatory basis.       5. Effective December 23, 2009,
Section 5(a), Pre-Tax and Catch-Up Contributions, is renamed  Pre-Tax, After-Tax and Catch-Up Contributions , subsection (ii), Catch-Up Contributions, is redesignated as subsection (iii), and a new subsection (ii) is inserted as
follows:       (ii)  After-Tax Contributions . A Participant who is not a Highly Compensated Employee may make After-Tax
Contributions to the Plan for any year equal to any whole percentage from 1% to 30% of the Participant s Earnings for such year regardless of whether the Participant is making any Pre-Tax Contributions. The Plan Administrator may at any time
and from time to time limit the amount of After-Tax Contributions, or the combined amount of Pre-Tax and After-Tax Contributions, allowed to be made by some or all eligible Participants to ensure compliance with applicable Code requirements. 
     6. Effective December 23, 2009, newly designated Section 5(a)(iii), Catch-Up Contributions, is amended by inserting
the following as the penultimate sentence thereof:       Effective December 23, 2009, to the extent permitted by the Plan
Administrator, catch-up contributions made by a Participant may be designated as Roth catch-up contributions, which shall be separately accounted for by the Plan Administrator.       7. Effective December 23, 2009, Section 5(b), Changing the Rate and Suspension of Employee Contributions, is amended by inserting
 and/or After-Tax Contributions  immediately following each reference to Pre-Tax Contributions therein.      8. Effective
July 1, 2009, Section 5(d), Distribution of Excess Elective Deferrals, is amended by deleting the parenthetical phrase in the third sentence thereof and inserting  (adjusted for any income or loss allocable through the end of the tax
year for which such Excess Elective Deferral was made)  in lieu thereof.      9. Effective July 1, 2009,
Section 5(f)(i), Distribution of Excess Contributions, is amended by deleting the phrase  up to the date of distribution  in the second sentence thereof and inserting  through the end of the tax year in which such Excess
Contribution is made  in lieu thereof.   

10. Effective July 1, 2009, Section 5(h)(i), Distribution of Excess Aggregate
Contributions, is amended by deleting the word  thereto  in the first sentence thereof and inserting  through the end of the year in which such Excess Aggregate Contribution is made  in lieu thereof.      11. Effective July 1, 2009, Sections 5(i)(iii)(2) and 5(j), shall be amended by inserting the following at the end thereof:   
   Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, the Plan shall not accept any Rollover Contribution from another plan sponsored or
maintained by the Company or any member of the Company s Affiliated Group.       12. Effective December 23, 2009,
Section 5(k), Salary Reduction and Tax Status of Pre-Tax Contributions, is amended by inserting the parenthetical  (other than Roth catch-up contributions)  immediately following the reference to catch-up contributions therein.
     13. Effective July 1, 2009, Section 10(a), Amount of Benefit, is amended by inserting the following immediately
after the first sentence thereof:       Notwithstanding anything in this Section 10(a) to the contrary, vesting is
provided under the Plan to the extent required under Code section 411(a).       14. Effective July 1, 2009,
Section 10(a)(ii), Vesting in Cash Dividends, is amended by deleting the phrase  with respect to which  in the first sentence thereof and inserting the phrase  without regard to whether  in lieu thereof.      15. Effective July 1, 2009, Section 11(g), Optional Direct Rollover of Eligible Rollover Distributions, is amended by deleting
subsection (i) and inserting the following in lieu thereof:       (i) A participant who receives a distribution described
in Section 11(a) or a withdrawal described in Section 12 may direct the Plan Administrator to directly roll over all or any portion of the distribution or withdrawal as permitted by Code sections 401(a)(31) and 402(c). A portion of a
distribution shall not fail to be an eligible rollover distribution merely because the portion consists of after-tax employee contributions that are not includible in gross income. However, such portion may be transferred only as permitted in Code
section 402(c)(2).       16. Effective December 23, 2009, Section 12(b)(iii) is amended by adding the following to
the end thereof:       Effective December 23, 2009, a Participant may withdraw amounts attributable to After-Tax
Contributions at any time.    

17. Effective January 1, 2010, Section 12(g)(v), Loan Repayment Terms, is amended
by inserting the following after the sixth sentence thereof:       Notwithstanding the foregoing, effective January 1,
2010, in the discretion of the Plan Administrator on a nondiscriminatory basis, the note may provide (or may be amended to provide) that if a Participant with an outstanding loan terminates employment as a result of a Release, such Participant may
continue making loan repayments directly to the Benefit Center for up to the lesser of (1) the remainder of the period of such loan or (2) a period of up to one year after such Participant s termination of employment and that any
outstanding principal and interest due at the end of such period shall be paid immediately thereafter.       18. Effective
December 23, 2009, Section 13(b)(ii), Disposition of Excess Amounts, is amended by deleting the phrase  Roth Elective Deferrals, if any, and then the Participant s Pre-Tax Contributions  and inserting the following in lieu
thereof:       the Participant s Pre-Tax Contributions, Roth Elective Deferrals and/or After-Tax Contributions 
     * * * * * * * * *      IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Corporation has caused this Amendment to be executed on its behalf as of this 29   th    day of December, 2009.        

MORGAN STANLEY   CO.   
 
  INCORPORATED   

By:  
     
    /s/ KAREN JAMESLEY    
 
  Title:  
     
  Global Head of Human Resources    

</EX-10.11>

<EX-10.14>
 5
 dex1014.htm
 DIRECTORS' EQUITY ACCUMULATION PLAN

Directors' Equity Accumulation Plan 

EXHIBIT 10.14        MORGAN STANLEY        DIRECTORS  EQUITY CAPITAL
ACCUMULATION PLAN        (as amended through November 16, 2009)        Section 1. Purpose       Morgan
Stanley, a Delaware corporation (the   Company  ), hereby adopts the Morgan Stanley Directors  Equity Capital Accumulation Plan (the   Plan  ). The purpose of the Plan is to promote the long-term growth and
financial success of the Company by attracting, motivating and retaining non-employee directors of outstanding ability and assisting the Company in promoting a greater identity of interest between the Company s non-employee directors and its
stockholders.      Capitalized terms used herein without definition have the meanings ascribed thereto in Section 24.
      Section 2. Eligibility       Only directors of the Company who are not employees of the Company or any affiliate of the Company (the   Eligible Directors  ) shall participate in the Plan.       Section 3. Plan Operation       (a)  Administration . Other than as provided in Section 5(c)(v), the Plan requires no discretionary action by any administrative body with regard to any transaction under the Plan. To the extent, if any, that questions of
administration arise, these shall be resolved by the Board. The Board may, in its discretion, delegate to the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Legal Officer, the Secretary of the Company or to one or more officers of the Company any or all
authority and responsibility to act pursuant to the Plan. All references to the  Plan Administrators  in the Plan shall refer to the Board, or the Chief Financial Officer, the Chief Legal Officer, the Secretary or to one or more officers
of the Company if the Board has delegated its authority pursuant to this Section 3(a). The determination of the Plan Administrators on all matters within their authority relating to the Plan shall be conclusive.      (b)  No Liability . The Plan Administrators shall not be liable for any action or determination made in good faith with respect to the
Plan or any award hereunder, and the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless the Plan Administrators from all losses and expenses (including reasonable attorneys  fees) arising from the assertion or judicial determination of any such
liability.       Section 4. Shares of Stock Subject to the Plan       (a)  Stock . Awards under the Plan shall relate to shares of Stock.      (b)  Shares Available for Awards . Subject to Section 4(c) (relating to adjustments upon changes in capitalization), as of any
date, the total number of shares of Stock with respect to which awards may be granted under the Plan shall be equal to the excess (if any) of (i)

1,700,000 shares over (ii) the sum of (A) the number of shares subject to outstanding awards granted under the Plan and (B) the number of shares previously issued pursuant to the
Plan. In accordance with (and without limitation upon) the preceding sentence, shares of Stock covered by awards granted under the Plan that are canceled or expire unexercised shall again become available for awards under the Plan. Shares of Stock
that shall be issuable pursuant to the awards granted under the Plan shall be authorized and unissued shares, treasury shares or shares of Stock purchased by, or on behalf of, the Company in open-market transactions.      (c)  Adjustments . In the event of any merger, reorganization, recapitalization, consolidation, sale or other distribution of
substantially all of the assets of the Company, any stock dividend, split, spin-off, split-up, split-off, distribution of cash, securities or other property by the Company, or other change in the Company s corporate structure affecting the
Stock, then the following shall be automatically adjusted in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of the benefits or potential benefits intended to be awarded under the Plan:      (i) the aggregate number of shares of Stock reserved for issuance under the Plan;      (ii) the number of shares of Stock subject to outstanding awards;      (iii) the number of Stock Units credited pursuant to Section 6 and Section 9 of the Plan;      (iv) the per share purchase price of Stock subject to any stock options granted pursuant to the Plan; and      (v) the number of shares to be granted pursuant to any other automatic awards that may be provided for under the Plan in the
future.      (d)  Types of Award . The Company s stockholders originally approved the Plan on April 19, 1996, and
approved amendments to the Plan on March 19, 2002. The types of award authorized by the stockholders under the Plan are Director Stock, Stock Units, shares of Stock awarded at an Eligible Director s election pursuant to Section 11 and
stock options.       Section 5. Stock Options       (a) Effective as of February 8, 2005 (the   Stock Option Transition Date  ), no additional stock options will be awarded under the Plan.      (b) Section 5(a) shall not impair the rights of any person in any stock option that was awarded under the Plan prior to the Stock
Option Transition Date. All such stock options shall remain subject to the terms and conditions applicable thereto.      (c) The
following terms and conditions apply to stock options issued under the Plan, including without limitation all stock options issued prior to the Stock Option Transition Date:      (i)  Nontransferability . No stock option granted pursuant to the Plan shall be sold, assigned or otherwise transferred
by an Eligible Director other than by will or the laws of descent or distribution and any such stock option may be exercised during the Eligible Director s lifetime only by such Eligible Director.         
   2   

(ii)  Limitation on Exercise . No stock option granted pursuant to this
Plan may be exercised for a period of six (6) months from the date such stock option was granted.      (iii)
 Effect of Termination .      (A) If an Eligible Director s service as a director of the Company
terminates for a reason other than for Cause, then any stock option granted to such Eligible Director shall remain exercisable following the date of such Eligible Director s termination of service in accordance with the following provisions:
     (a) Disability, Normal Retirement or Death. If service terminates by reason of Disability, Normal Retirement
or death, until the expiration date of the stock option.      (b) Other. If service terminates for any other
reason (except for Cause), until the earlier of 90 days after the termination date and the expiration date of the stock option.      (B) If an Eligible Director is terminated for Cause, all stock options granted under the Plan to such Eligible Director shall be canceled and shall no longer be exercisable, effective on the date of such
Eligible Director s termination for Cause.      (iv)  Expiration Date of Stock Options . All stock
options granted under the Plan shall expire on the tenth anniversary of the date on which they are granted.      (v)  Extension of Exercisability . Notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Board shall have the authority, in its discretion, to amend any outstanding stock option granted pursuant to the Plan to extend the exercisability
thereof;  provided ,  however , that no such amendment shall cause such stock option to remain exercisable beyond its original expiration date.      (d) Notwithstanding Section 5(a), stock options remain one of the types of award that the stockholders of the Company have authorized for the Plan, and Section 5(a) shall not impair the
authority of the Board under Section 15 to amend the Plan in the future to provide for awards of stock options without obtaining additional stockholder approval.         
   3   

Section 6. Initial and Annual Awards       (a)  Initial Awards . On the first day of the calendar month following the month in which any person becomes an Eligible Director,
otherwise than by reason of being elected to the Board at an Annual Meeting, such Eligible Director shall be entitled to receive a number of Initial Stock Units obtained by dividing (x) $250,000 prorated for service during the period beginning
on the first day of the calendar month during which such person becomes an Eligible Director until the last day of the calendar month immediately preceding the calendar month during which the first anniversary of the immediately preceding Annual
Meeting will occur by (y) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the first day of the calendar month following the month in which such person becomes an Eligible Director;  provided ,  however , that if such a person is elected,
appointed or otherwise becomes an Eligible Director less than 60 days prior to the Annual Meeting in any year, then such Eligible Director shall not receive Initial Stock Units pursuant to this Section 6(a). 50% of the Initial Stock Units
awarded to an Eligible Director pursuant to this Section 6(a) shall be credited to the Eligible Director s Career Stock Unit Account and the remaining 50% of the Initial Stock Units shall be credited to the Eligible Director s Current
Stock Unit Account.      (b)  Subsequent Awards . As of the date of each Annual Meeting, each Eligible Director, including,
without limitation, any Eligible Director who becomes a member of the Board by reason of being elected to the Board at such Annual Meeting, shall be entitled to receive a number of Annual Stock Units obtained by dividing $250,000 by the Fair Market
Value of a share of Stock on the date of such Annual Meeting;  provided , that such Eligible Director shall continue to serve as a director of the Company after such Annual Meeting. 50% of the Annual Stock Units awarded to an Eligible Director
pursuant to this Section 6(b) shall be credited to the Eligible Director s Career Stock Unit Account and the remaining 50% of the Annual Stock Units shall be credited to the Eligible Director s Current Stock Unit Account. Annual Stock
Units and Initial Stock Units credited to the Eligible Director s Career Stock Unit Account pursuant to this Section 6(b) or pursuant to Section 6(a) above are referred to as   Career Stock Units  .      (c)  Limitation on Transfer . Any Director Stock awarded under the Plan may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise
conveyed by an Eligible Director for a period of six (6) months from the date such Director Stock is awarded. Neither Annual Stock Units nor Initial Stock Units may be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise conveyed by an Eligible
Director. The shares delivered upon conversion of Annual Stock Units and Initial Stock Units will not be subject to any transfer restrictions, other than those that may arise under the securities laws or the Company s policies.      (d)  No Effect on Prior Initial Awards or Prior Subsequent Awards . The provisions of this Section 6 apply to all Initial Awards
and Subsequent Awards made on or after the Stock Unit Transition Date. Nothing herein shall alter the grants of Initial Awards and Subsequent Awards made prior to the Stock Unit Transition Date.       Section 7. Vesting Schedule.       (a)  Initial Stock Units . The Initial Stock Units shall be fully vested upon grant.         
   4   

(b)  Annual Stock Units . The Annual Stock Units shall vest in 12 substantially equal
installments on the last day of each month beginning with the calendar month during which Annual Meeting is held, assuming that the Eligible Director continues to serve as a director of the Company through the last day of the relevant month.
      Section 8. Death, Disability and Governmental Service.       (a)  Death or Disability . All of an Eligible Director s unvested Stock Units will vest in full as of the date of the Eligible Director s termination of service on the Board due to death or
Disability. Notwithstanding any election made by an Eligible Director on any Deferral Election Form or any other provision of the Plan, in the event of such Eligible Director s death, all amounts credited to such Eligible Director s Cash
Account, Current Stock Unit Account and Career Stock Unit Account, and any Deferred Amount that has not yet been credited to such Eligible Director s Cash Account or Current Stock Unit Account, will be paid in a lump sum to the Eligible
Director s beneficiary (or if no beneficiary has been designated, to such Eligible Director s estate) upon the Eligible Director s death,  provided  that such beneficiary or the legal representative of such Eligible
Director s estate, as applicable, notifies the Company of the Eligible Director s death within 60 days following death. Following an Eligible Director s termination of service on the Board due to Disability, distributions under the
Plan will be made as provided in Section 9(e) or Section 9(f), as applicable.      (b)  Governmental Service
Resignation . Notwithstanding any election made by an Eligible Director on any Deferral Form, if an Eligible Director resigns as a director of the Company as a result of accepting employment at a governmental department or agency, self-regulatory
agency or other public service employer (a   Governmental Employer  ) (such resignation is referred to herein as a   Governmental Service Resignation  ), then (i) if the Eligible Director provides the Company with
satisfactory evidence demonstrating that as a result of such employment, the divestiture of his or her continued interest in Company equity awards or continued ownership of Stock is reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of U.S. federal, state
or local or foreign ethics law or conflicts of interest law applicable to the Eligible Director at such Governmental Employer, all of an Eligible Director s unvested Stock Units will vest in full as of the date of the Eligible Director s
Governmental Service Resignation, all amounts credited to the Eligible Director s Current Stock Unit Account and Career Stock Unit Account will be distributed in a lump sum in accordance with Section 9(h), and all transfer restrictions
will lift on shares of Director Stock held by the Eligible Director, on the date of such Governmental Service Resignation, and (ii) if the Eligible Director provides the Company with satisfactory evidence demonstrating that as a result of such
employment, the divestiture of the Eligible Director s continued interest in his or her Cash Account is reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of U.S. federal, state or local or foreign ethics law or conflicts of interest law applicable to
the Eligible Director at such Governmental Employer, all amounts credited to the Eligible Director s Cash Account will be distributed in a lump sum on the date of such Governmental Service Resignation.      (c)  Governmental Service following Resignation . Notwithstanding any election made by an Eligible Director on any Deferral Form, if,
following Eligible Director s Service Termination Date, the Eligible Director accepts employment with a Governmental Employer, then (i) upon providing the Company with satisfactory evidence demonstrating that as a result of such employment
the divestiture of the Eligible Director s continued interest in Company equity
        
   5   

awards or continued ownership of Stock is reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of U.S. federal, state or local or foreign ethics law or conflicts of interest law applicable to the Eligible
Director at such Governmental Employer, all amounts credited to the Eligible Director s Current Stock Unit Account and Career Stock Unit Account will be distributed in a lump sum in accordance with Section 9(h), and all transfer
restrictions will lift on shares of Director Stock held by the Director, on the date on which the Eligible Director provides the Company with such satisfactory evidence, and (ii) if the Eligible Director provides the Company with satisfactory
evidence demonstrating that as a result of such employment, the divestiture of the Eligible Director s continued interest in his or her Cash Account is reasonably necessary to avoid the violation of U.S. federal, state or local or foreign
ethics law or conflicts of interest law applicable to the Eligible Director at such Governmental Employer, all amounts credited to the Eligible Director s Cash Account will be distributed in a lump sum on the date on which the Eligible Director
provides the Company with such satisfactory evidence.       Section 9. Deferral Elections and Distributions       (a)  Deferral of Retainers . An Eligible Director may make a Deferral Election to defer receipt of all or part of such Eligible
Director s Retainers for a given service period. An Eligible Director may make such a Deferral Election by submitting a Deferral Election Form to the Secretary, indicating:      (i) the Deferred Amount or a percentage of such Retainer to be deferred;      (ii) the Distribution Commencement Date, in accordance with Section 9(e); and      (iii) whether distributions are to be made in a lump sum or installments, in accordance with Section 9(g).   
  Deferral Election Forms must be submitted prior to the start of the calendar year during which the services giving rise to such Retainer to be deferred
begin;  provided ,  however , that in the case of an Eligible Director who is newly elected or appointed to the Board, such Eligible Director s Deferral Election Form relating to the Retainer earned during the service period
commencing on the date of such election or appointment may be submitted within 30 days after the date of such election or appointment. In all cases, a Deferral Election Form shall be effective only with respect to Retainers that are earned after the
Deferral Election is made. An Eligible Director may make only one Deferral Election covering Retainers to be earned during a given service period (so that an Eligible Director may not, for example, make one Deferral Election relating to the Annual
Retainer and a different Deferral Election relating to a Committee Retainer). Deferral Elections (including indications on the Deferral Election Form as to Distribution Commencement Date and form of distributions), once made, shall be irrevocable.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Deferral Election may be superseded with respect to future deferrals of an Eligible Director s Retainers by submitting a new Deferral Election Form to the Secretary, in which case such new Deferral Election
shall be effective starting with the Retainer earned in the service period that begins in the calendar year following the calendar year in which such new Deferral Election Form is submitted.         
   6   

(b)  Crediting of Deferrals of Retainers . Deferrals of an Eligible Director s
Retainers shall be allocated to a Current Stock Unit Account. As of each Retainer Payment Date, the Company shall credit the Eligible Director s Current Stock Unit Account with a number of Elective Stock Units determined by dividing
(X) the Deferred Amount of Retainers that otherwise would be paid in cash on such Retainer Payment Date by (Y) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on such Retainer Payment Date.      (c)  Deferrals of Current Stock Units . An Eligible Director may make a Deferral Election to defer receipt of the Current Stock Units
to be earned for a given service period by submitting a Deferral Election Form to the Secretary indicating:      (i) the Distribution Commencement Date, in accordance with Section 9(e); and      (ii) whether
distributions are to be made in a lump sum or installments, in accordance with Section 9(g).      A Deferral Election pursuant to this
Section 9(c) must relate to all Current Stock Units to be earned by an Eligible Director during a given service period. Deferral Election Forms must be submitted prior to the start of the calendar year during which the services giving rise to
such Current Stock Units to be deferred begin;  provided ,  however , that in the case of an Eligible Director who is newly elected or appointed to the Board, such Eligible Director s Deferral Election Form relating to the Current
Stock Units earned during the service period commencing on the date of such election or appointment (that is, 50% of the Eligible Director s Initial Stock Units) may be submitted within 30 days after the date of such election or appointment. In
all cases, a Deferral Election Form shall be effective only with respect to Current Stock Units that are earned after the Deferral Election is made. Deferral Elections (including indications on the Deferral Election Form as to Distribution
Commencement Date and form of distributions), once made, shall be irrevocable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Deferral Election may be superseded with respect to future deferrals of an Eligible Director s Current Stock Units by submitting a
new Deferral Election Form to the Secretary, in which case such new Deferral Election shall be effective starting with the Current Stock Units earned in the service period that begins in the calendar year following the calendar year in which such
new Deferral Election Form is submitted.      (d)  Deferrals of Career Stock Units . An Eligible Director may elect to defer
receipt of the Career Stock Units to be earned for a given service period by submitting a Deferral Election Form to the Secretary indicating:      (i) the Distribution Commencement Date for such Career Stock Unit Account, in accordance with Section 9(f); and      (ii) whether distributions are to be made in a lump sum or installments, in accordance with Section 9(g).      A Deferral Election pursuant to this Section 9(d) must relate to all Career Stock Units to be earned by an Eligible Director during a given service
period. Deferral Election Forms must be submitted by prior to the start of the calendar year during which the services giving rise to such
        
   7   

Career Stock Units to be deferred begin;  provided ,  however , that in the case of an Eligible Director who is newly elected or appointed to the Board, such Eligible Director s
Deferral Election Form relating to the Career Stock Units earned during the earned during the service period commencing on the date such election or appointment (that is, 50% of the Eligible Director s Initial Stock Units) may be submitted
within 30 days after the date of such election or appointment. In all cases, a Deferral Election Form shall be effective only with respect to the Career Stock Units that are earned after the Deferral Election is made. Deferral Elections (including
indications on the Deferral Election Form as to Distribution Commencement Date and form of distributions), once made, shall be irrevocable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Deferral Election relating to Career Stock Units may be superseded with
respect to future deferrals by submitting a new Deferral Election Form to the Secretary, in which case such new Deferral Election shall be effective starting with the Career Stock Units earned in the service period that begins in the calendar year
following the calendar year in which such new Deferral Election Form is submitted.      (e)  Distribution Commencement Date for
Current Stock Unit Account . Each Eligible Director shall designate on the Deferral Election Form one of the following dates as a Distribution Commencement Date with respect to amounts credited to the Current Stock Unit Account thereafter:
     (i) such Eligible Director s Service Termination Date;      (ii) the earlier of (x) a calendar year specified by such Eligible Director (which, if the Deferral Election relates to
Elective Stock Units, shall not be earlier than the calendar year following the year in which occurs the final Retainer Payment Date of the relevant Deferred Amount and, if the Deferral Election relates to Current Stock Units, shall not be earlier
than the calendar year following the year in which occurs the first anniversary of the date of grant of the relevant Current Stock Units) and (y) the fifth calendar year following the year in which the Eligible Director s Service
Termination Date occurs; or      (iii) the earlier to occur of (i) or (ii)(x).      For the avoidance of doubt, it is noted that an Eligible Director who submits separate Deferral Elections for Retainers and Current Stock Units to be earned
during a given service period may designate a separate Distribution Commencement Date for each deferral. Distributions from an Eligible Director s Current Stock Unit Account in respect of Current Stock Units as to which an Eligible Director has
not made a Deferral Election will be made, subject to the other provisions of this Plan, on the first anniversary of the date of grant.      (f)  Distribution Commencement Date for Career Stock Unit Account . Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Plan or any Deferral Election Form, no amounts credited to an Eligible
Director s Career Stock Unit Account shall be distributed prior to such Eligible Director s Service Termination Date. Each Eligible Director may designate on the Deferral Election Form for such Eligible Director s Career Stock Unit
Account one of the following dates as a Distribution Commencement Date with respect to amounts credited to the Career Stock Unit Account:      (i) such Eligible Director s Service Termination Date; or         
   8   

(ii) any of the second through fifth calendar years following the year in
which the Eligible Director s Service Termination Date occurs.      Distributions from an Eligible Director s Career Stock Unit Account
in respect of Career Stock Units as to which an Eligible Director has not made a Deferral Election will be made, subject to the other provisions of this Plan, on the Eligible Director s Service Termination Date.      (g)  Distribution Method . An Eligible Director shall state on each Deferral Election Form whether distributions that are subject to
such Deferral Election Form shall be made in:      (i) a lump sum; or      (ii) no more than 10 annual installments.      Where an Eligible Director s Distribution Commencement Date is such Eligible Director s Service Termination Date, the lump sum or first annual installment, as applicable, will be paid upon the
Eligible Director s Service Termination Date. The amount to be distributed in any installment pursuant to a specific Deferral Election Form shall be determined by dividing the number of Stock Units in the Career Stock Unit Account or Current
Stock Unit Account, as the case may be, that are subject to such Deferral Election Form by the number of remaining installments. If an Eligible Director receives a distribution on an installment basis, undistributed Deferred Amounts shall remain
subject to the provisions of this Section 9.      (h)  Form of Distributions . All distributions from the Cash Account
shall be paid in cash. Distributions made from the Current Stock Unit Account and the Career Stock Unit Account shall be for a number of whole shares of Stock equal to the number of whole Stock Units to be distributed and cash in lieu of any
fractional share (determined by using the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date on which such distributions are distributed).      (i)  Dividend Equivalents . If there are Stock Units in an Eligible Director s Current Stock Unit Account or Career Stock Unit Account on a dividend record date with respect to the
Company s Stock, the Current Stock Unit Account or Career Stock Unit Account, as applicable, shall be credited, on the dividend payment date for such dividend record date, with an additional number of Stock Units (  Dividend
Equivalents  ) equal to:      (i) the cash dividend paid on one share of Stock;  multiplied by  
     (ii) the number of Stock Units in such Account on such dividend record date; with the product of (i) and
(ii)  divided by        (iii) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the dividend payment date.
     Dividend Equivalents credited in respect of Stock Units subject to vesting shall be fully vested upon grant.         
   9   

(j)  No Effect on Prior Deferral Elections . The provisions of this Section 9
apply to all Deferral Elections made on or after the Stock Unit Transition Date. Nothing herein shall alter the terms of effective Deferral Elections made prior to the Stock Unit Transition Date.      (k)  Date of Payment . Unless the Plan Administrator determines otherwise, whenever a Deferral Election specifies a calendar year for
payment of all or a portion of a Deferred Amount, such payment shall be made on January 2 of the specified calendar year.      (l)  Rule of Construction for Timing of Payment  .  Whenever a Deferral Election or the Plan provides for payment upon a specified event or date, such payment will be considered to have been timely made, and neither the Eligible
Director nor any of his or her beneficiaries or estate shall have any claim against the Company for damages based on a delay in payment, and the Firm shall have no liability to the Eligible Director (or to any of his or her beneficiaries or estate)
in respect of any such delay, as long as payment is made by December 31 of the year in which occurs the applicable specified event or date or, if later, by the 15th day of the third calendar month following such specified event or date.
     (m)  Deferral of Meeting Fees . As of the Stock Option Transition Date, the Company does not pay Meeting Fees. In the
event that the Company determines in the future to pay Meeting Fees to Eligible Directors, and in the case of Meeting Fees deferred prior to the Stock Option Transition Date, the provisions of this Section 9 relating to elective deferrals of
Retainers, and the provisions of Section 11 relating to Stock Elections, shall apply to such Meeting Fees  mutatis   mutandis ;  provided ,  however , that any Deferred Amount resulting from deferral of all or part of an
Eligible Director s Meeting Fees (other than Meeting Fees for meetings of the Board or any committee thereof held on the date of an Annual Meeting) will initially be credited to the Cash Account as of the date on which the Eligible Director
becomes entitled to payment of the Meeting Fees, shall thereafter be credited with Interest Equivalents as calculated under this Section 9(m) (such Deferred Amount as increased by such Interest Equivalents being the   Adjusted Deferred
Amount  ) and will thereafter be debited from the Cash Account and credited to the Eligible Director s Current Stock Unit Account as of the date of the next Annual Meeting following the date of such meeting (or, if the Eligible
Director s service on the Board terminates prior to the next Annual Meeting following the date of such meeting, as of the first business day following his or her Service Termination Date), with the number of Stock Units credited to the Current
Stock Unit Account being the amount obtained by dividing (i) the relevant Adjusted Deferred Amount by (ii) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of such Annual Meeting or the Service Termination Date, as applicable. As of
the last day of each fiscal quarter and the Eligible Director s Service Termination Date, the Eligible Director s Cash Account will be credited with an Interest Equivalent equal to (i) the Rate of Interest, multiplied by (ii) the
Average Daily Cash Balance, multiplied by (iii) the number of days during the fiscal quarter or other period during which such Cash Account had a positive balance, divided by (iv) 365.       Section 10. Designation of Beneficiaries       An Eligible Director may designate one or more beneficiaries to receive any distributions under the Plan upon the Eligible Director s death, and may change such designation at any time by submitting
a new beneficiary designation form to the Secretary.         
   10   

Section 11. Election to Receive Stock       (a)  Election . An Eligible Director may make a Stock Election to receive all or part of any or all of such Eligible Director s
Retainers in shares of Stock by submitting a Stock Election Form to the Secretary indicating the Stock Amount. A Stock Election Form shall be effective only with respect to Retainers payable after the date on which the Secretary receives the Stock
Election Form. Each Stock Election, once made, shall be irrevocable. Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Stock Election may be superseded with respect to future payments of an Eligible Director s Retainers by submitting a new Stock Election Form
to the Secretary.      (b)  Payment in Stock . As of each Retainer Payment Date, an Eligible Director who has made a Stock
Election will receive, in lieu of the Retainer elected to be received in Stock, a whole number of shares of Stock (but not fractional shares) determined by dividing:      (i) the amount of the Retainer that is payable to the Eligible Director on the applicable Retainer Payment Date and is
subject to a Stock Election; by      (ii) the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on such Retainer Payment Date.
     In no circumstances shall an Eligible Director be entitled to receive, or shall the Company have any obligation to issue to the Eligible
Director, any fractional share of Stock. In lieu of any fractional share of Stock, the Eligible Director shall be entitled to receive, and the Company shall be obligated to pay to such Eligible Director, cash equal to the value of any fractional
share of Stock (determined by using the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on such Retainer Payment Date).       Section 12. Fair Market
Value         Fair Market Value   shall mean, with respect to each share of Stock for any day:      (a) if the Stock is listed for trading on the New York Stock Exchange, (i) the volume weighted average price of the Stock, reflecting
composite trading between 9:30 a.m. and 4:00 p.m. (Eastern time) on such date, as reported by the Bloomberg Professional Service on the MS Equity Volume at Price page under the  VWAP  field, at 4:00 p.m. on such date, rounded up to the
nearest whole cent, or, if not so reported, as reported by another third party source to which the Company has access on such date, or if no such reported sale of the Stock shall have occurred on such date, on the most recent date on which such a
reported sale occurred; or (ii) if the volume weighted average price is not available from a third party source to which the Company has access on such date or on the most recent date on which a reported sale occurred,  Fair Market
Value  will be the average of the high and low prices of the Stock as reported on the Consolidated Transaction Reporting System on such date, or if no such reported sale of the Stock shall have occurred on such date, on the most recent date on
which such a reported sale occurred; or      (b) if the Stock is not so listed, but is listed on another national securities
exchange, the closing price, regular way, of the Stock on such exchange, rounded up to the nearest whole cent, on which the largest number of shares of Stock have been traded in the aggregate on the preceding twenty trading days, or, if no such
reported sale of the Stock shall have occurred on such date on such exchange, on the most recent date on which such a reported sale occurred on such exchange, or         
   11   

(c) if the Stock is not listed for trading on a national securities exchange, the average of
the closing bid and asked prices as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers, rounded up to the nearest whole cent, or, if no such prices shall have been so reported for such date, on the most recent date for which such prices were
so reported.       Section 13. Issuance of Stock       (a)  Restrictions on Transferability . All shares of Stock delivered under the Plan shall be subject to such stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Company may deem advisable or legally
necessary under any laws, statutes, rules, regulations and other legal requirements, including, without limitation, those of any stock exchange upon which the Stock is then listed and any applicable federal, state or foreign securities law.
     (b)  Compliance with Laws . Anything to the contrary herein notwithstanding, the Company shall not be required to issue
any shares of Stock under the Plan if, in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the issuance and delivery of such shares would constitute a violation by the Eligible Director or the Company of any applicable law or regulation of any
governmental authority, including, without limitation, federal and state securities laws, or the regulations of any stock exchanges on which the Company s securities may then be listed.       Section 14. Withholding Taxes       The Company may require as a condition of delivery of any shares of Stock that the Eligible Director remit (i) in cash, (ii) by tendering (or attesting to the ownership of) shares of Stock that the Company determines will not
result in unfavorable accounting treatment or (iii) by the Company withholding shares of Stock, an amount sufficient to satisfy all foreign, federal, state, local and other governmental withholding tax requirements relating thereto (if any)
and, exclusively in the case of an award that does not constitute a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, any or all indebtedness or other obligation of the Eligible Director to the Company or any of its subsidiaries. In the case of
any award that constitutes a deferral of compensation subject to Section 409A, the Company may not withhold shares of Stock to satisfy obligations that an Eligible Director owes to the Company or any of its subsidiaries other than with respect
to taxes or other governmental charges imposed on amounts received by the Eligible Director pursuant to such award, except to the extent such withholding is not prohibited by Section 409A and would not cause the Eligible Director to recognize
income for United States federal income tax purposes prior to the time of payment of the award or to incur interest or additional tax under Section 409A. Any shares tendered or withheld pursuant to this Section 14 will be valued at Fair
Market Value on the relevant payment or exercise date, as applicable.       Section 15. Plan Amendments and Termination       The Board may suspend or terminate the Plan at any time, in whole or in part. Termination of the Plan shall not adversely affect the rights
of Eligible Directors in Career Stock Unit Accounts, Cash Accounts and Current Stock Unit Accounts outstanding at the time of termination. Notwithstanding any termination of the Plan, distributions to Eligible Directors in respect of their Career
Stock Unit Accounts, Cash Accounts and Current Stock Unit Accounts shall be made at the times and in the manner provided herein.         
   12   

The Board may also alter, amend or modify the Plan at any time. These amendments may include
(but are not limited to) changes that the Board considers necessary or advisable as a result of changes in, or the adoption or interpretation of, any law, regulation, ruling, judicial decision or accounting standards (collectively,   Legal
Requirements  ). The Board may not amend or modify the Plan in a manner that would materially impair an Eligible Director s rights in any Career Stock Unit Account, Cash Account or Current Stock Unit Account without the Eligible
Director s consent;  provided ,  however , that the Board may, without an Eligible Director s consent, amend or modify the Plan in any manner that it considers necessary or advisable to comply with any Legal Requirement or to
ensure that amounts credited to an Eligible Director s Career Stock Unit Account, Cash Account or Current Stock Unit Account are not subject to federal, state or local income tax prior to payment.      Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any provision of this Plan would, in the reasonable, good faith judgment of the Company, result in or
likely result in the imposition on any Eligible Director or any other person of any tax, interest or penalty under Section 409A, the Company may reform this Plan or any provision hereof, without the consent of any Eligible Director, in the
manner that the Company reasonably and in good faith determines to be necessary or advisable to avoid the imposition of such tax, interest or penalty;  provided ,  however , that any such reformation shall, to the maximum extent the
Company reasonably and in good faith determines to be possible, retain the economic and tax benefits to the Eligible Directors hereunder while not materially increasing the cost to the Company of providing such benefits to the Eligible Directors.
     The Board may delegate to the Plan Administrator its authority under this Section 15 to amend any provision of the Plan
for which approval by the Board (or a committee thereof) is not required under applicable law or the rules of any national securities exchange on which the Stock is traded.       Section 16. Listing, Registration and Legal Compliance       If the Plan
Administrators shall at any time determine that any Consent (as hereinafter defined) is necessary or desirable as a condition of, or in connection with, the granting of any award under the Plan, the issuance or purchase of shares or other rights
hereunder or the taking of any other action hereunder (each such action being hereinafter referred to as a   Plan Action  ), then such Plan Action shall not be taken, in whole or in part, unless and until such Consent shall have been
effected or obtained. The term   Consent   as used herein with respect to any Plan Action means (i) the listing, registrations or qualifications in respect thereof upon any securities exchange or under any foreign, federal, state
or local law, rule or regulation, (ii) any and all consents, clearances and approvals in respect of a Plan Action by any governmental or other regulatory bodies, or (iii) any and all written agreements and representations by an Eligible
Director with respect to the disposition of Stock or with respect to any other matter, which the Plan Administrators shall deem necessary or desirable in order to comply with the terms of any such listing, registration or qualification or to obtain
an exemption from the requirement that any such listing, qualification or registration be made.         
   13   

Section 17. Right Reserved       Nothing in the Plan shall confer upon any Eligible Director the right to continue as a director of the Company or affect any right that the
Company or any Eligible Director may have to terminate the service of such Eligible Director.       Section 18. Rights as a Stockholder  
     Except as otherwise provided by the terms of any applicable Benefit Plan Trust, an Eligible Director shall not, by reason of
any stock option, Director Stock, Stock Unit or Stock Amount, have any rights as a stockholder of the Company until Stock has been issued to such Eligible Director.       Section 19. Unfunded Plan       The Plan shall be unfunded and shall not create
(or be construed to create) a trust or a separate fund or funds. The Plan shall not establish any fiduciary relationship between the Company and any Eligible Director or other person. To the extent any person holds any rights by virtue of a pending
grant or deferral under the Plan, such rights shall be no greater than the rights of an unsecured general creditor of the Company. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may (but shall not be obligated to) contribute shares of Stock
corresponding to Stock Units to a Benefit Plan Trust, provided that the principal and income of any such Benefit Plan Trust shall be subject to the claims of general creditors of the Company. The Company may amend the terms of any Benefit Plan Trust
as applicable to any one or more Eligible Directors in order to procure favorable tax treatment for such Eligible Director(s) or to comply with the laws applicable in any non-U.S. jurisdiction.       Section 20. Governing Law       The Plan is deemed adopted, made and delivered in New York and shall be governed by the laws of the State of New York applicable to agreements made and to be performed entirely within such state.       Section 21. Severability       If any part of the Plan is declared by any court or governmental authority to be unlawful or invalid, such unlawfulness or invalidity shall not invalidate any portion of the Plan not declared to be unlawful or invalid. Any Section or part
of a Section so declared to be unlawful or invalid shall, if possible, be construed in a manner that will give effect to the terms of such Section or part of a Section to the fullest extent possible while remaining lawful and valid.       Section 22. Notices       All
notices and other communications hereunder shall be given in writing and shall be deemed given when personally delivered against receipt or five days after having been mailed by registered or certified mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, addressed as follows: (a) if to the Company: Morgan Stanley, 1585 Broadway, New York, New York 10036, Attention: Corporate Secretary; and (b) if to an Eligible Director, at the Eligible Director s principal residential
address last furnished to the Company. Either party may, by notice, change the address to which notice to such party is to be given.         
   14   

Section 23. Section Headings       The Section headings contained herein are for the purposes of convenience only and are not intended to define or limit the contents of said
Sections.       Section 24. Definitions       As used in the Plan, the following terms shall have the meanings indicated below:        Account   means Cash Account, Career Stock Unit Account or Current Stock Unit Account, as applicable.        Adjusted Deferred Amount   has the meaning set forth in Section 9(m).        Annual Meeting   means an annual meeting of the Company s stockholders.        Annual Retainer   means a cash retainer for services as a member of the Board.        Annual Stock Units   means the Stock Units awarded to an Eligible Director pursuant to Section 6(b).
       Average Daily Cash Balance   means the sum of the daily balances for a Cash Account for any
quarter or shorter period for which the calculation is made, divided by the number of days on which a positive balance existed in such Cash Account.        Benefit Plan Trust   means any trust established by the Company under which Eligible Directors, or Eligible Directors and participants in designated employee benefit plans of the Company,
constitute the principal beneficiaries.        Board   means the board of directors of the Company.
       Career Stock Unit Account   means a bookkeeping account to which Initial Stock Units and
Annual Stock Units are credited pursuant to Section 6(a) and Section 6(b).        Career Stock
Units   has the meaning set forth in Section 6(b).        Cash Account   means a
bookkeeping account to which Meeting Fees are credited pursuant to Section 9(m) or which had a positive balance as of the Stock Unit Transition Date.        Cause   means, with respect to any Eligible Director, termination of service on the Board on account of any act of (A) fraud or intentional misrepresentation, or
(B) embezzlement, misappropriation or conversion of assets or opportunities of the Company or any affiliate.        Committee Retainer   means a cash retainer for services as a member or chair of any committee of the Board.        Company   has the meaning set forth in Section 1.         
   15   

Consent   has the meaning set forth in Section 16.
       Current Stock Unit Account   means a bookkeeping account to which Deferred Amounts are
credited pursuant to Section 6(a), Section 6(b) or Section 9(b).        Current Stock
Units   means Annual Stock Units and Initial Stock Units credited to the Eligible Director s Current Stock Unit Account pursuant to Section 6(a) or Section 6(b).        Deferral Election   means a deferral election by an Eligible Director made with respect to any Retainers,
Director Stock, Initial Stock Units and/or Annual Stock Units.        Deferral Election Form   means
an election form submitted by an Eligible Director to the Secretary with respect to any Retainers, Director Stock, or Stock Units.        Deferred Amount   means any amount, in dollars, of Retainers, Initial Stock Units and/or Annual Stock Units that an Eligible Director elects to defer, as indicated on the relevant
Deferral Election Form.        Director Stock   means shares of Stock awarded to an Eligible
Director for service on the Board. As of the Stock Unit Transition Date, no additional Director Stock will be awarded under the Plan, but Director Stock remains one of the types of award that the stockholders of the Company have authorized for the
Plan, and nothing herein shall impair the authority of the Board under Section 15 to amend the Plan in the future to provide for awards of Director Stock without obtaining additional stockholder approval.        Disability   means a  permanent and total disability  as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.        Distribution Commencement Date   means the date
that an Eligible Director elects as the date on which distribution of Deferred Amounts should begin, as indicated on the relevant Deferral Election Form.        Dividend Equivalents   has the meaning set forth in Section 9(i).        Elective Stock Units   means Stock Units that an Eligible Director elects to receive in lieu of Retainers pursuant to Section 9(a).        Eligible Directors   has the meaning set forth in Section 2.        Fair Market Value   has the meaning set forth in Section 12.        Governmental Employer   has the meaning set forth in Section 8(b).        Governmental Service Resignation   has the meaning set forth in Section 8(b).        Initial Awards   means any awards made to an Eligible Director pursuant to Section 6(a), including any
predecessor version thereof.         
   16   

Initial Stock Units   means the Stock Units awarded to an
Eligible Director pursuant to Section 6(a).        Interest Equivalent   means an additional
amount to be credited to a Cash Account calculated in accordance with Section 9(m).        Lead
Director Retainer   means a cash retainer for services as the lead director of the Board.        Meeting Fees   means fees (if any) payable to an Eligible Director for participation in meetings of the Board or any committee thereof.        Normal Retirement   means the termination of service on the Board for retirement at or after attaining age
65, other than for Cause, Disability or death.        Plan   has the meaning set forth in
Section 1.        Rate of Interest   means the time weighted average interest rate paid by the
Company for a quarter, or such shorter period from the end of the preceding quarter to an Eligible Director s Service Termination Date, to institutions from which it borrows funds.        Retainer   means the Annual Retainer, the Committee Retainer and/or the Lead Director Retainer, as
applicable.        Retainer Payment Date   means, with respect to any Retainer, the date as of which
an Eligible Director becomes entitled to payment of Retainer.        Section 409A   means
Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the rules, regulations and guidance thereunder (or any successor provisions thereto).        Service Termination Date   means the date of an Eligible Director s termination of service on the Board
or such later date as constitutes the Eligible Director s separation from service with the Company for purposes of Section 409A.        Stock   means the Company s common stock, par value $0.01 per share, and any other shares into which such stock shall thereafter be changed by reason of any merger, reorganization,
recapitalization, consolidation, split-up, combination of shares or similar event as set forth in and in accordance with Section 4.        Stock Amount   means the percentage of the Retainers that an Eligible Director elects to have paid in Stock, as indicated on the relevant Stock Election Form.        Stock Election   means an election by an Eligible Director to receive all or a portion of the Eligible
Director s Retainers in shares of Stock.        Stock Election Form   means the election form
submitted by an Eligible Director to the Secretary as provided in Section 11(a).         
   17   

Stock Option Transition Date   has the meaning set forth in
Section 5(a).        Stock Unit Transition Date   means November 16, 2009.        Stock Units   means Initial Stock Units, Annual Stock Units and/or Elective Stock Units, as applicable.
       Subsequent Awards   means any awards made to an Eligible Director pursuant to
Section 6(b), including any predecessor version thereof.         
   18   

</EX-10.14>

<EX-10.36>
 6
 dex1036.htm
 SUPPLEMENTARY DEED OF PARTICIPATION FOR MORGAN STANLEY UK SHARE OWNERSHIP PLAN

Supplementary Deed of Participation for Morgan Stanley UK Share Ownership Plan 

Exhibit 10.36       Dated November 5, 2009      Morgan Stanley International
Incorporated      and      Hill Samuel ESOP Trustees Limited      SUPPLEMENTARY DEED OF PARTICIPATION   
  FOR THE      MORGAN
STANLEY UK SHARE OWNERSHIP PLAN      Linklaters LLP      One Silk Street      London EC2Y 8HQ      Telephone (44-20) 7456 2000      Facsimile (44-20) 7456 2222      Ref 01/145/CPeake   

This Deed  is made on November 5, 2009  between        

(1)   
  Morgan Stanley International Incorporated (the   Company           

(2)   
  Hill Samuel ESOP Trustees Limited (the   Trustees   and         

(3)   
  The company named in the Schedule (the   Participating Company  )        and is supplementary to the Deed of Participation dated 9 October 2007 between the Company and the Trustees and Morgan Stanley UK Limited.       Background        

1   
  The Morgan Stanley UK Share Ownership Plan 2007 (the   Plan  ) was established by deed dated 9 October 2007 between the Company and the Trustees
(the   Principal Deed  ).         

2   
  Rule 12.1 of the Principal Deed provides that an employer wishing to participate in the Plan must enter into a deed with the Company and the Trustees agreeing to comply
with the Plan rules.         Participation in the Plan        

3   
  The Company and the Trustees agree that the Plan will extend to the Participating Company and that, from the date of this Deed, the Participating Company will be a
Participating Company in accordance with the Plan.         

4   
  The Participating Company agrees to comply with the Plan rules (as amended from time to time).         Execution in counterpart        

5   
  This Deed may be executed in any number of counterparts which together shall constitute one document. Any party may execute a counterpart and this Deed will not take
effect until it has been executed by all parties.        Executed as a deed on the date shown at the top of this document.   

Executed as a deed by Morgan Stanley     International Incorporated by:   

/s/ DAWN NICHOLSON   
 
        Authorised Signatory   

Executed as a deed by Equiniti Share     Plan Trustees Limited acting by:   

/s/ JOHN PARKER    
 
  Director  

Authorised Signatory  

/s/ GAVIN DOWNS          

Schedule        Participating Company        

Executed as a deed by     MORGAN
STANLEY PRIVATE     WEALTH MANAGEMENT LIMITED by:   

/s/ ALEXANDER CLASSEN   
 
        Director   

</EX-10.36>

<EX-12>
 7
 dex12.htm
 STATEMENT RE: COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Statement Re: Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

Exhibit 12        Morgan Stanley        Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges
       and Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Preferred Stock Dividends        (dollars in millions)        

(1)  
  Income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes does not include dividends on preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption, gain/(loss) on
discontinued operations, cumulative effect of accounting change (net), non-controlling interests and income or loss from equity investees.        Fixed charges consist of interest cost, including interest on deposits, interest on discontinued operations, dividends on preferred securities subject to mandatory redemption, and that portion of rent
expense to be representative of the interest factor.      Fixed charges do not include interest expense on uncertain tax
liabilities as the Company records these amounts within the Provision for income taxes.      The preferred stock dividend amounts
represent pre-tax earnings required to cover dividends on preferred stock.       

*  
  The earnings for the one month ended December 31, 2008 were inadequate to cover total fixed charges and total fixed charges and preferred stock dividends.
       The coverage deficiencies for total fixed charges for the one month ended December 31, 2008 were $2,028
million.      The coverage deficiencies for total fixed charges and preferred stock dividends for the one month ended
December 31, 2008 were $2,523 million.   

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 8
 dex21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF MORGAN STANLEY

Subsidiaries of Morgan Stanley 

Exhibit 21        Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List        December 31, 2009        

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    
 
     Morgan Stanley    
      
  Delaware   
 
    Bayfine DE LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Bayview Holding Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Bayfine Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Bayfine DE Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Bayfine UK   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Belmondo LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cauca LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Corporate Equipment Supplies, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cournot Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cournot Capital Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Capital Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Holding Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Civic Center Leasing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Leasing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Credit Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Fourth Income Properties Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Growth Properties Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Income Properties I Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Income Properties II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Income Properties III Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Yield Plus Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Realty Yield Plus II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Realty Management Service Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Venture Equities Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Early Adopter Fund Manager Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fuegos LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fundlogic (Jersey) Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    FV-I, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GSS III Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GSS III Funding Partner, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Global Special Situations III Funding L.P. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ISG Alternative Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Japan Core Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Jolter Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Rundle Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MR Ventures Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley   Co. Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Corporate Services Support Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Ohio) Inc.   
      
  Ohio   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Oklahoma) Inc.   
      
  Oklahoma   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Agency (Texas) Inc.   
      
  Texas   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 1 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Dean Witter Reynolds Insurance Services, Inc. (Puerto Rico)   
      
  Puerto Rico   
 
    Graystone Wealth Management Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Luxco 45 Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Insurance Services (Arizona) Inc.   
      
  Arizona   
 
    Morgan Stanley Insurance Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Flexible Agreements Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kew Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Alpha Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley JV Holdings LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    AST StockPlan LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Consulting Group Advisory Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Demeter Management LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley GWM Feeder Strategies LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley HedgePremier GP LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Australia Pty Limited   
      
  Western Australia, Australia   
 
    Bow Lane Nominees Pty. Ltd.   
      
  Victoria, Australia   
 
    Bowyang Nominees Pty Limited   
      
  New South Wales, Australia   
 
    Skeet Nominees Pty Limited   
      
  Victoria, Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Smith Barney FA Notes Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Financing LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Holdings (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Wealth Management Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Quilter Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Quilter   Co. Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    C.I.P.M. Nominees Limited *   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Coastal Nominees (International) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Coastal Nominees Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Commercial Trust Co. Ltd. *   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Hawkshead Trust Nominees Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Pembroke Quilter (Ireland) Nominees Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    QGCI Nominees Limited *   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Quilpep Nominees Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Quilter Fund Management Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Quilter Nominees Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Smith Barney LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Insurance Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Payco LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SBHU Life Agency Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Private Management II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Private Management LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Smith Barney Venture Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Swiss Holdings GmbH   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    Bank Morgan Stanley AG   
      
  Switzerland   
 
    MS Securities Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 2 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Prime Dealer Services Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    V2 Holdings (USA), Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    E Musica Entertainment Group Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Gee Street Records, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    V2 Records, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    V2 Publishing (Holdings) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    V2 Music Publishing (Holdings) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    V2 Music Publishing Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley ABS Capital I Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley ABS Capital II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Altabridge Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Amalthea UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Amanu LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Makatea JV Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Moorea Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pinaki Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Raraka Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tepoto Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asset Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Becketts LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Copse LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Chapel LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Woodcote Capital S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gerrards Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Atlas, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Barents LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Biscay LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Alpha Investments LLP *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Epsilon Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Plymouth Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Viking LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fastnet LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Humber LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fitzroy Partnership *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kite LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Swallow Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Hampshire Trading B.V. *   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Semaine Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Ras Dashen Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Island   
 
    Morgan Stanley Firecrest LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Plover Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Fyled Energy Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Fyled Limited Partnership   
      
  United Kingdom   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 3 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Morgan Stanley Foxton Limited Partnership   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Sandpiper Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Sand Lake Limited Partnership   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Starling Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Puffin LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Boscastle Holding Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cornerways Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Monmouth UK   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital I Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cayman Energy Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Ghent Energy Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Heidmar Group Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Houston Bayport Energy LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MGM International Group LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group Czech Republic s.r.o.   
      
  Czech Republic   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group (Espa a), S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Clean Development, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group Energy Europe Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Renewables Development I (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commodities Investment Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commodity Opportunities Fund LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Energy Development Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group Cyprus Limited *   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Morgan Stanley Petroleum Development, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wellbore Capital, LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS TELA LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Power Development Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cogeneracion Prat S.A.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Minnewit B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MS Coal Trading Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Solar Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Solar Access CA, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Solar Solutions Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Naniwa Energy LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Naniwa Terminal LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Twillwer B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Power Contract Finance, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Power Contract Financing II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Power Contract Financing II, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    South Eastern Electric Development Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    South Eastern Generating Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TransMontaigne Inc.   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 4 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Olco Petroleum Group Inc.   
      
  Quebec   
 
    Canterm Canadian Terminals Inc.   
      
  Quebec   
 
    TransMontaigne Product Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TransMontaigne Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TransMontaigne GP L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Utility Contract Funding II, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Management, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Domestic Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bank, N.A.   
      
  Federal Charter   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Partners III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital REIT Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Saxon Advance Receivables Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital REIT IV, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Avondale 1 B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MS Avondale 2 B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Trust III   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Trust IV   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Trust V   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Collateralized Financing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commercial Financial Services, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commercial Mortgage Capital, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Content Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Darica Funding, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ascension Loan Vehicle, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Equity Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter International Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Dean Witter Reynolds International, Inc.   
      
  Panama   
 
    Morgan Stanley (DWRRBS) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Distributors Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Domestic Leasing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Durango LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Afdera Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Amba Alagi LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Ambasel LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Elan LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cimarron Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Riva Investments LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Emerging Markets Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Always Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Inter Capital Alliance Company Limited *   
      
  Thailand   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 5 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Inter Capital Alliance Holding Limited *   
      
  Thailand   
 
    MS China 1 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    DAH Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Dare Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 2 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 3 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 4 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 5 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSGHYLADD *   
      
  Ireland   
 
    MSJI 2 LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSJI LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Philippine Asset Investment (SPV - AMC) Inc.   
      
  The Philippines   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Europa LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Callisto Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Elara Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Eurydome Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Holdings S rl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Europe Reinsurance S.A.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Reinsurance S.A. *   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Metis (Gibraltar) Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Ganymede Luxembourg Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Ananke Luxembourg Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Carme Luxembourg Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Himalia Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Sinope Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Adrastea Netherlands B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley IO Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Iocaste Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pasiphae Netherlands B.V.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Leda Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Stoneyside Cayman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley White Horse UK   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Financial Products Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services (Bermuda) Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services (Cayman) Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services (Ireland) Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fund Services USA LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Galway LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Global Emerging Markets, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Global Funding Trust   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 6 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Morgan Stanley Global Strategies Management Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Global Strategies Management LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hedging Co. Ltd. *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Holdings Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Arno Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    European Principal Assets Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Credito Fondario e Industriale - Fonspa SpA   
      
  Italy   
 
    Limited Liability Company City Mortgage Bank   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    Psylon Holding Limited   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Limited Liability Company Rinocenter *   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    Volmar Holdings Limited   
      
  Cyprus   
 
    Fosbury Investments Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    ITALSEC S.r.l.   
      
  Italy   
 
    Morgan Stanley AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Morgan Stanley Advantage Services Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings I Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings III Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings IV Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings VI Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Pacific (Holdings) Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Hong Kong) Holdings Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia International Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Regional (Holdings) IV Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong 1238 Limited *   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Securities Products LLC   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Products Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia (Taiwan) Ltd.   
      
  Republic of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Futures Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Securities Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong 1239 Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Information Technology (Shanghai) Limited   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    MSDW-JL Holdings I Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bosphorus Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Canmore Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Caledonia Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan (Holdings) Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    City Forum Capital Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Regional (Holdings) III Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Singapore) Holdings Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Pte.   
      
  Singapore   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 7 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Morgan Stanley Asia (Singapore) Securities Pte Ltd   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group (Singapore) Pte.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management Company   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Labuan Investment Bank Limited   
      
  Labuan/Malaysia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Singapore Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Japan Group, Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW-JL Holdings II Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Products Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Capital Cayman Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Remora Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSJL Holdings 4682 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS CYM Preferred Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSJS Preferred YK   
      
  Japan   
 
    MSJL Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Holdings Co., Ltd. *   
      
  Japan   
 
    Hybrid Capital K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    TM, Limited   
      
  Japan   
 
    Hybrid Capital Second K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Jipang Mortgage Finance Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asset   Investment Trust Management Co., Limited   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Business Group Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Group Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Securities Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital K.K. *   
      
  Japan   
 
    K.K. MST Investment Management *   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tokyo Properties K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    MS Real Estate Advisors Co., Ltd.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Panorama Hospitality, K.K.   
      
  Japan   
 
    MSDW Birkdale Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Muirfield Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Lytham Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Swilken Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Pacific Services Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asset Management S.A.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Australia Finance Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Australia) Real Estate Holdings Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Australia) Servco Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Real Estate Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bank AG   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Canada Limited   
      
  Canada   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital (Luxembourg) S.A. *   
      
  Luxembourg   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 8 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Morgan Stanley Capital, S.A. de C.V., SOFOM, E.N.R. *   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cayman Holdings I Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commodities Trading Cayman Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commodities Trading Hong Kong Holdings Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Commodities Trading (China) Limited   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    MS Gamma Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Cabot 37 Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cabot 34 Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cabot 35 Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Nominees Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hungary Analytics Limited   
      
  Hungary   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Group (Europe) *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Advantage Home Loans Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Bayfine UK Products *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Angel Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Suffolk Trading B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    V2 Music (Holdings) Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Leitrim Sarl *   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kerry Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Richmond Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bank International Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bank International (China) Limited   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Group Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Europe) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gala Limited *   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Finance plc *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Caballa Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gastoro Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pintado Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Woburn IV Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Woburn V Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Corporate Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MSDW Corporate Investments I Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    MSDW Corporate Investments II Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Sunningdale Cooperatieve UA   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Wentworth Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Woburn Cooperatieve UA   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investments (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management (ACD) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley JY Holdings Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 9 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Morgan Stanley JY Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Property Management (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Structured Products) Jersey Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley UK Group   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cabot 38 Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Trading (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products (Spain) S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Humboldt Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Clearcreek, S.L.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Langton Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Longcross Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products (Netherlands) B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Drake II Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Maple Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bridel S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Strategic Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Lyle Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dover Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Fisher Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Ashwood Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Badalona Investments I Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Badalona Investments II Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Badalona Investments III Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Badalona Investments IV Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Lundy Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Wadway 1 Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Wadway2 Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Sabadell Investments I Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Sabadell Investments II Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Sabadell Investments III Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Sabadell Investments IV Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Woburn VI Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Elz GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Saar GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Finance (Denmark) ApS   
      
  Denmark   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Financing Services (Sweden) AB   
      
  Sweden   
 
    Morgan Stanley (France) SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Morgan Stanley Havel GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dill GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Main GmbH   
      
  Germany   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 10 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Morgan Stanley Isar GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mosel GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kochi Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Camomile Liffey Investments (UK) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Durham Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Honeybourne Holdings Limited *   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Devon Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cumbria Investments *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Berkshire Investments Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cheshire Investments Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dorset Investments Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Kerala Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cork Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Malabar Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Creedy Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Brunton Sarl *   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Putney Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hoxne Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Lowman Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mildenhall S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
      Morgan Stanley Byzantine S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Rosetta Investments S.a.r.l.*   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Finchley Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Rasam Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Vindolanda Equity S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Shannon Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Adur Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Shoreditch Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mandarin Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Harlequin Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pintail Investments Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Bonaire Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Metsys Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Orangewood Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Saenredam Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Saldanha Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Tamboer Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Neudorf S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Piccadilly Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Rhein SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Clausen Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Eich Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Rivelino Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dolor Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gerson Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 11 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Morgan Stanley Tostao Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Silvermere Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bowline Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Penberthy Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Archimedes Investments Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Hanger Straight Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Terrassa I Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Terrassa II Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Terrassa III Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Terrassa IV Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Shanklin Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Northcote Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Bermont Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Borderwijk Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Norton Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Victoria Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Shavano Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hampstead Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Yarmouth Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Taiwan Limited *   
      
  Republic of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Waterloo Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Moor Lane Investments Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    MSDW Portrush Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Propus Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Batherm Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Ursa SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hercules SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Lyra SARL*   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Temple Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Newburgh Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Turnberry Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Medway Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cadzand II Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Ock Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Weaver Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cadzand III Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Knightsbridge Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Oostburg B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Oostburg and Partners S.e.c.s.*   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Ramey Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mallard Investments Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Carysforth Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Haddington Investments Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Millbrae Investments B.V.*   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Montgomerie Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 12 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Morgan Stanley Cadzand Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Malin Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Woburn III Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Raleigh Investments Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Langtree Investments B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Drake Investments Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Norwegian Energy Limited *   
      
  England   Wales   
 
    Morgan Stanley   Co. Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    East Sussex Financing Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Cottenden Financing Unlimited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Securities Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morstan Nominees Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley UK Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pension Trustee Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Trustee Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Wertpapiere GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    OOO Morgan Stanley Bank   
      
  Russian Federation   
 
    Morgan Stanley Strategic Funding Limited *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MS Leasing UK Limited (In Members  Voluntary Liquidation)   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Finance (C.I.) Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    MSDW Fixed Income Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Jubilee Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Augusta Cooperatieve U.A.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Eden Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Willow Capital Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management (Australia) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management (Korea) Limited   
      
  Republic of Korea   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investments (Mauritius) Limited   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Israel) Ltd.   
      
  Israel   
 
    Morgan Stanley Japan Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Latin America Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Banco Morgan Stanley S.A. *   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Morgan Stanley Administadora de Carteiras S.A. *   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Morgan Stanley C.T.V.M. S.A. *   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter do Brasil Ltda. *   
      
  Brazil   
 
    Morgan Stanley Uruguay Ltda. *   
      
  Uruguay   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mauritius Company Limited   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Alanoushka Finlease and Investments Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Regional (Holdings) II LLC   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley India Capital Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley India Primary Dealer Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley India Securities Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley India Company Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley India Financial Services Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley India Services Private Limited *   
      
  India   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 13 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Morgan Stanley Investment Management Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    MSIM Global Support and Technology Services Private Limited *   
      
  India   
 
    Morgan Stanley Menkul Degerler A.S. *   
      
  Turkey   
 
    Morgan Stanley M xico, Casa de Bolsa, S.A. de C.V. *   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Thailand) Limited *   
      
  Thailand   
 
    Morgan Stanley San Donato SARL *   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Syrah Two Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Donegan Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Middle East Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Saudi Arabia *   
      
  Saudi Arabia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mortgage Servicing Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Prime Commercial Mortgage Servicing GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pacific Services Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Poggio Secco Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Alpino Investments Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Clare SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Management Korea, Ltd.   
      
  Republic of Korea   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investment GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley SGR (Societ  di Gestione del Risparmio) SpA *   
      
  Italy   
 
    Morgan Stanley Spanish Holdings S.L.U.   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley SV, SAU   
      
  Spain   
 
    Morgan Stanley Structured Products (Cayman) I Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pacific Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Consultancy (Beijing) Company Limited   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Trading Beteiligungs-GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Ukraine LLC *   
      
  Ukraine   
 
    MS Equity Financing Services (Luxembourg) S. .r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    MS Italy (Holdings) Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSAM/Kokusai (Cayman Islands), Inc.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSAM/Kokusai II (Cayman Islands), Inc.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Finance (Netherlands) BV   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Investment Holdings (US) Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley UK Trader   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Corporate Trader *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Financial Trader   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Trader *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Weser GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    MSDW Investments (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Investment Holdings (UK) Ltd.   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Cabot 1 Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Applied Risc Technologies Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 14 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Cornwall Financing UK Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cornwall Investments UK Limited *   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Holdings Jersey Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Lancashire Trading B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Norfolk Trading B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Wiltshire Trading B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Funding Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Yorkshire Trading B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSL Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley SPV I (Cayman Islands) LLC *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Farlington Company *   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Providence DE LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Providence Canada Co.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Providence Cayman Investments Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Providence DE Investments Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PT Morgan Stanley Asia Indonesia *   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    PT Morgan Stanley Indonesia *   
      
  Indonesia   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Incorporated *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley South Africa (Pty) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    Morgan Stanley Asia Holdings V Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Australia) Holdings Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Australia Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Australia) Securities Holdings Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Australia Securities Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Australia Securities (Nominee) Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Holdings *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Financial Holdings, LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hong Kong Finance Limited *   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley UK Capital Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter HK RAV IV, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    The HK RAV IV Trust *   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Finance SA *   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley International Insurance Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    MSIIL Captive Insurance, Inc.   
      
  Arizona   
 
    Morgan Stanley SerCo Solutions Pty Limited   
      
  Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley SPV II (Cayman Islands) LLC   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDWIH Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Cabot 2 Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MS Cabot Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Advisors Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services Company Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Investment Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley AIP Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Alternative Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    GTB Capital Partners GP LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley AIP (Cayman) GP Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Select Investment Strategies Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 15 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Morgan Stanley AIP Falconer 2008 GP LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley AIP GP LP   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Alternative Investment Partners LP   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Comprehensive Alternatives Fund I LP   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley EPMF I GP LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley GDOF GP LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley PMF III GP LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley SCRSIC Strategic Partnership Fund GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Distribution, Inc.   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Jersey) Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Leveraged Equity Fund II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia Limited *   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Advisory (Beijing) Limited   
      
  Beijing, PRC   
 
    Morgan Stanley Leveraged Equity Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Life Holding Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Longevity Insurance Company   
      
  Texas   
 
    Morgan Stanley Malbec LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley ML Acquisition Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mortgage Capital Holdings LLC   
      
  New York   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital REIT II Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital REIT III Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Dean Witter Asset Capital Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Residential Mortgage Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSSHG I Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Saxon Capital, Inc.   
      
  Maryland   
 
    Saxon Capital Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SCI Services, Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Saxon Mortgage, Inc.   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Saxon Holding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TRS Securities and Certificates, Inc.   
      
  Maryland   
 
    Saxon Mortgage Services, Inc.   
      
  Texas   
 
    Saxon Funding Management LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Securitized Assets LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Saxon Asset Securities Company   
      
  Virginia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Municipal Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Municipal Management, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Overseas Finance Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Overseas Services (Jersey) Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Preferred Strategies Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley (Hungary) Financial Services Limited Liability Company *   
      
  Hungary   
 
    MSXL Asia Pacific Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 16 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

MSXL China Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    SPV Columbus S.r.L. *   
      
  Italy   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Strategies, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Advisor, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREA Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Multifamily Investment Platform, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREA Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREA LL Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Funding II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Funding II, L.P. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Moon Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    DBFLA Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate F Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate F Funding Partner, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate F International Funding, L.P. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investment Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF I, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investment Management II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF II-CO, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Realty Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BH-MS Realty Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BH-MS Leasing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Brooks Harvey   Co., Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Dean Witter Global Realty Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Japan Realty Finance Company II   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Lombard Servicing Inc.   
      
  Japan   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital (Real Estate) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties Corso Venezia S.r.l. *   
      
  Italy   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties France SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties Germany GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties Hong Kong Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Ltd. *   
      
  Republic of Korea   
 
    MSK Management II, Ltd. *   
      
  Republic of Korea   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties (Mauritius) India   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties India Real Estate Management Private Limited   
      
  India   
 
    MSP China Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties Advisory Corp. Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Beijing Kaili Asset Servicing Co., Ltd. *   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    Morgan Stanley Properties (China) Co. Ltd.   
      
  People s Rep. of China   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 17 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

MSDI Investment Services *   
      
  People s Rep. of China   
 
    Panorama Hospitality Global, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Panorama Hospitality Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MS Japan REIT Holding KK   
      
  Japan   
 
    MS Japan Strategic Core Acquisition KK   
      
  Japan   
 
    Tokyo Realty Investment Company II   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Reinsurance Ltd.   
      
  Bermuda   
 
    Morgan Stanley Renewables Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Biomass LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley BrightSource LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Geothermal LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Renewable Development Fund LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Third Planet Windpower, LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Wind LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Greenrock LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Carson Solar I, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Solar I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MF Mesa Lane, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS SolarCity LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Solar Star California III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Solar Star California V LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Solar Star California VI LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Solar Star California IX LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Solar Star WMT I, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Risk Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley SECAP Funding, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Secured Financing LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Securities, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Equity Products (Luxembourg) S. .r.l   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Foreign Complex Trust *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Securitization Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Senior Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Inversiones Sudamerica Uno Ltda *   
      
  Republic of Chile   
 
    Morgan Stanley European Event Driven Finance, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley European Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley European Leveraged Products Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley European Transaction Finance, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley MSSF LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Senior Funding (Capital), Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Senior Funding (Nova Scotia) Co.   
      
  Canada   
 
    MSSFG (SPV-AMC) Inc *   
      
  The Philippines   
 
    Tenedora Dalia, S.A. de C.V., SOFOM, E.N.R. *   
      
  Mexico   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services Canada Holding Corp.   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 18 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Morgan Stanley Services Canada Corp.   
      
  Nova Scotia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Special Situations Group Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Stingray LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Syrah One Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Barbera One Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Grenache One Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Grenache Three Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Grenache Two Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Technical Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Technical Services MB/VC Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tindur LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Arete Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hubbard Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Drumlin JV Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Immarsuak LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hatteras I LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Pennine LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Scafell Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Snowdon Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Hamar JV Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Torridon LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hatteras II LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Tower, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Financing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Broadway 522 Fifth JV LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    G.H.Y. Capital II B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley 1585 Broadway LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley 750 Building Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    G.H.Y. Capital B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MS Beta Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley CS Aviation Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW LTCP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Harrison LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Trust   
      
  Federal Charter   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation of Iowa   
      
  Iowa   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation of Minnesota   
      
  Minnesota   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation of Pennsylvania   
      
  Pennsylvania   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Corporation of Tennessee   
      
  Tennessee   
 
    NOVUS Financial Corporation of Washington   
      
  Washington   
 
    NOVUS Receivables Financing Inc.   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 19 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Morgan Stanley Trust National Association   
      
  Federal Charter   
 
    Morgan Stanley Venture Capital III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morstan Development Company, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS 10020, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Debt Opportunities Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Hawk I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Holdings Incorporated   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ARS FIHF GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    ARS GMEMN GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley ARS Funding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hedge Fund Partners Cayman Ltd   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hedge Fund Partners GP LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley HFP Investment Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Hedge Fund Partners LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley IMDCP Funding, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Infrastructure GP LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Offshore Infrastructure GP, Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Island   
 
    Morgan Stanley Infrastructure Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Merchant Banking Insurance Holdings, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Merchant Banking Insurance Company   
      
  Vermont   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Private Equity Asia III, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSPEA SLP III, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Securities Global Best Ideas GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Funding Partner, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Capital Partners V Funding LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Infrastructure I Funding LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Holding C Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Holding C (Cayman) Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Alternatives Holding D Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Alternatives Holding E Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS ARS Holding A Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS ARS Holding B Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Capital Partners Adviser Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Fixed Income Group Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSCP V GP, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Capital Partners V GP LP *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Capital Partners V LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Credit Partners GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Credit Partners GP L.P. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Credit Partners Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 20 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

MSGFI Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Private Investment Partners Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Private Investment Partners GP Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    TAM Investment Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Partners LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Brookville Horizons Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Brookville Onshore Horizons Fund I GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FPP Healthcare Fund 2X GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Asian Event Driven Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Asia Pacific GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint BCO GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Brookville Loan Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Consumer and Industrials Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Copia Energy Horizons Fund GP, LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Currency Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Enhanced Alpha Fund I GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Enhanced Index Fund U.S. Equity Series GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Enhanced TIPS GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Euroasia Opportunity Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint European Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Financial Horizons Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Financial Services Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Global Emerging Markets Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Global Enhanced Inflation Linked Bond Index Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Global Equity Portfolio Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Greater China Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Healthcare Centennial Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Healthcare Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Healthcare Horizons Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Healthcare Long Horizons Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Japan Fund 2X GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Japan Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Japan Small/Mid Cap Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint JEMN GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Leveraged Multi-Strategy Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Management (Hong Kong), Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    FrontPoint Management Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Management Japan Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    FrontPoint Management (Singapore) Pte. Ltd.   
      
  Singapore   
 
    FrontPoint Management (UK) LLP   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    FrontPoint Michigan Strategic Partnership Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Multi-Strategy Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Partners Trading Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 21 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

FrontPoint Quantitative Macro Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint RCL Equity Long/Short Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Relative Value Opportunities Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Service Company (UK) Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    FrontPoint Service Company (UK) No 2 Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    FrontPoint Strategic Alpha Manager, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Strategic Credit Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Technology Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Universal GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Utility and Energy Fund GP, LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    FrontPoint Volatility Opportunities Fund GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Stadia Capital GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Lion LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Beta Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bucine Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Cooper Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Gamma Investments *   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Portland Investments Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    MS Leopard Inc. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Lynx Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Puma JV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Tiger Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Oncilla LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Low Income Housing Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Conchita I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Esox LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Guanaco I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Mombacho I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund XVI, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Guaranteed Tax Credit Fund XXIII, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Georgia Tax Credit Fund III, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley New Markets, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets I LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets V LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets VI LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets VII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets VIII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets IX LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS New Markets X LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS CTH MHP II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS CTH SLP Operating LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS CTH Special General Partner II LLC   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 22 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

MS LIHTC FCG LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIHTC FCG Fund I LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIHTC FCG Fund II LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIHTC FCG II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Paquia LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pietra I LLC    
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pietra II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pietra III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pinol I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pinol II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pinol III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pinol IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pinol V LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    BMC NAB Trust Investmment Fund LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    HIGC Investment Fund LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PSFG Funding LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trova I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trova II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trova III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Trova IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento V LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento VI LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento VII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento VIII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento IX LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento X LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento XI LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento XII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento XIII LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Viento XIV LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Wiwili V LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    SHCO 7 S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    SHCO 8 S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    SHCO 9 S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Vicuna IV LLC   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 23 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Morgan Stanley Spad Investments Limited   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Morane Investments Limited   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Curtiss Investments Limited   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Wiwili VI LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Low Income Housing II Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kashi LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS LIHTC FCG INT LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Taishan Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vicuna I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vicuna II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Vicuna III LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 1A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 2A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 3A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 4A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 5A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 6A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 7A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 8A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool 9A LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Low Income Housing III Corporation   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Warepool SLP LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Pegau LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Millport Holdings LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Millport I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Elderslie Holdings Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Elderslie Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Esporta Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Esporta Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Littlehill (US) LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ravelston LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Beaucastel LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Rhone Robles LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Real Estate Mezzanine Advisor, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Revel EFS LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    D Z Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Structured Asset Corp.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Synfuels, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Rosebank LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Strand Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Cornelia Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Clifton Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Lamis Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 24 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Lesley Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Lindley Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Linksfield Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Seapoint Investments (Proprietary) Limited   
      
  South Africa   
 
    MS Douglasdale Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Bondi Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS Melville LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Dainfern LLC*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Greenside LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Houghton LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sandhurst Partnership *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Sandhurst FX LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Prosen Limited   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Limpopo LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Breede Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Lomati LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Vaal LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Clova Investments LP *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Technology Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Venture Capital Holding Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSAM Holdings II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Investments Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Advisors Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Asset Management   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Exchange Corp.   
      
  California   
 
    Van Kampen Funds Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Van Kampen Investor Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSBF Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSCP III Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Proprietary Trading Co. (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Capital Partners IV, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Carnoustie LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Gleneagles Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Marchmont Capital, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW CPIV Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Credit Products Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Credit Products Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW EFS Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Emerging Equity, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Fixed Income Ventures Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Investments, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    JHP Holdings, LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    JHP Pharmaceuticals, LLC   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 25 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

MHC Co-Invest Genpar   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MHC Co-Invest, LP   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Investments Asia LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mayak Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 6 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 7 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 8 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 16 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSPI Mauritius 1 Limited   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Investments Europe LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Investments Netherlands BV   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Principal Investments North America LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS China 9 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 10 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 11 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MS China 12 Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSPI Hong Kong I Limited   
      
  Hong Kong   
 
    Stadium Capital Financing Group, LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley BrokerTec Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Strategic Investments, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Eaux Vives Water Bottling Corp.   
      
  Canada   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bahamas Investments, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW International Employee Services LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Nederland B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Oak, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Maple JV, LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Sycamore II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Maple Finance, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Birch (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Offshore Equity Services Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fundlogic Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Fundlogic SAS   
      
  France   
 
    Morgan Stanley Alzette S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley New Hampshire LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Deshka LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Barnard LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Chandra LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Keck LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Mayall LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Financing Services Ireland Limited   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Holdings (Ireland)   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Trading (DIFC) Limited   
      
  DIFC   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Trading GP Limited   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 26 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Equity Holdings S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Bramley Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Corporate Holdings (Ireland)   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products (Luxembourg) Sarl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Finance (Gibraltar) Limited   
      
  Gibraltar   
 
    Morgan Stanley Luxembourg Equity Trading (Jersey) LP *   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Finance (Malta) Limited *   
      
  Malta   
 
    Morgan Stanley Grund S rl   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Derivative Products (Portugal), Unipessoal Lda   
      
  Portugal   
 
    Morgan Stanley Euro Financing (Ireland) Limited *   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Warta GmbH   
      
  Germany   
 
    Morgan Stanley Kadarka Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley (NSW) Pty Limited   
      
  Victoria, Australia   
 
    Morgan Stanley Somerset Limited   
      
  United Kingdom   
 
    Morgan Stanley Moselle S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Trading LP   
      
  Jersey, Channel Is.   
 
    Morgan Stanley Wiltz S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Morgan Stanley Heythorp Investments   
      
  Ireland   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Holdings (Netherlands) B.V.   
      
  Netherlands   
 
    Morgan Stanley Equity Investments (UK) Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley GFD Hedge Holdings Limited *   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley GFD Hedge Holdings II Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Morgan Stanley GFD Proprietary Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Equity Finance Services I (Cayman) Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    .MSDW Offshore Equity Services (Korea) Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW OIP Investors, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW PE/VC Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-A Dutch Manager, B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-B Dutch Manager, B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-C Dutch Manager, B.V.   
      
  The Netherlands   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II Holdings, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II Manager, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-A Manager, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-B Manager, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II-C Manager, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Real Estate Special Situations II Partner, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRESS II GP Co-Investment Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSDW Strategic Ventures Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Synfuels III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW Venture Partners IV, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSDW VP IV Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSEOF, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 27 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

MSEOF Management, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSEOF Manager SARL   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    MSGEM Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSIT Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSPEA Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREA Guaranty, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRE Mezzanine, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRE Mezzanine, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRE Mezzanine-GP, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF II, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF III, L.L.C. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV Domestic-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV Domestic-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV International-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF IV International-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V Funding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V Funding Partner, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V International Funding, L.P. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V U.S.-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund V U.S., L.P. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSP Real Estate Fund V, L.P. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V U.S.-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V International-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investors V U.S., L.P. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF V International-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF Real Estate Advisor, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VI, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VI International-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VI, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VI International-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund VI International -T, L.P. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund VI International -TE, L.P. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Investors VI International, L.P. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VII, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VII Global (Cayman), L.L.C.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VII Global (Cayman), Ltd.   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSREF VII Global-GP Holding (Cayman), L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 28 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

MSREF VII Global (Cayman), L.P.*   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSREF VII Global-GP (Cayman), L.P.*   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    MSREF VII Global, L.L.C.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VII Global, L.P. *   
      
  Canada   
 
    MSREF VII Global-GP, L.P.*   
      
  Canada   
 
    MSREF VII Global-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VII Global (U.S.), L.L.C.*   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREF VII Global-GP (U.S.), L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREI Holding, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRESS III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRESS III Manager, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Special Situations III-GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSREI Post Co-Investment GP, L.L.C. *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRESS III Monroe GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSRESS III Opportunities Fund GP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Real Estate Special Situations III-LP, L.L.C.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSUH Holdings I, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSUH Holdings II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS SP Urban Horizons, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Urban Horizons, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSVP 2002 Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSVP 2002, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MSYS Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Musum I LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Musum II LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pettingell LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PG Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PG Holdings III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PG Investors II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    PG Investors III, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Pierpont Power, Inc.   
      
  New York   
 
    Providence DE Funding Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Providence DE Holdings Co.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Providence Cayman Holdings Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands   
 
    Shuksan LLC *   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Morgan Stanley Eder S.a.r.l.   
      
  Luxembourg   
 
    Strategic Investments I, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS Strategic (Mauritius) Limited   
      
  Mauritius   
 
    Strategic Investments II, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Tooele Power, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ventura Holdings Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    MS PA Gaming Holdings, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 29 of 30 Pages    

Morgan Stanley        Subsidiaries List       December 31, 2009         

Company    
      
   Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Formation    

Ventura Holdings NJ, Inc.   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Ventura AC LLC   
      
  New Jersey   
 
    Ventura Opportunities, LLC   
      
  Delaware   
 
    Zephyr (Cayman) Limited   
      
  Cayman Islands          

*  
  Denotes subsidiaries having more than one shareholder.         Page 30 of 30 Pages    

</EX-21>

<EX-23.1>
 9
 dex231.htm
 CONSENT OF DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Consent of Deloitte   Touche LLP 

Exhibit 23.1              CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM             We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements (as amended) of Morgan Stanley (the
 Company ) of our reports dated February 26, 2010, relating to the consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule of Morgan Stanley and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial
reporting (which report on the consolidated financial statements expresses an unqualified opinion and includes explanatory paragraphs concerning the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board accounting guidance that addresses accounting for
noncontrolling interests in consolidated financial statements, the computation of Earnings Per Share under the two-class method for share-based payment transactions that are participating securities and the accounting for uncertainties in income
taxes and an explanatory paragraph, concerning the Company changing its fiscal year end from November 30 to December 31), appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Morgan Stanley for the calendar year ended December 31, 2009:
           Filed on Form S-3:      Registration Statement No. 33-57202      Registration Statement No. 33-60734      Registration Statement No. 33-89748
     Registration Statement No. 33-92172      Registration Statement No. 333-07947      Registration Statement
No. 333-27881      Registration Statement No. 333-27893      Registration Statement No. 333-27919      Registration Statement No. 333-46403      Registration Statement
No. 333-46935      Registration Statement No. 333-76111      Registration Statement No. 333-75289      Registration Statement No. 333-34392      Registration Statement
No. 333-47576      Registration Statement No. 333-83616      Registration Statement No. 333-106789      Registration Statement No. 333-117752      Registration Statement
No. 333-129243      Registration Statement No. 333-131266      Registration Statement No. 333-155622      Registration Statement No. 333-156423            Filed on Form S-4:      Registration Statement No. 333-25003   

Filed on Form S-8:      Registration Statement No. 33-63024      Registration Statement No. 33-63026
     Registration Statement No. 33-78038      Registration Statement No. 33-79516      Registration Statement No. 33-82240
     Registration Statement No. 33-82242      Registration Statement No. 33-82244      Registration Statement
No. 333-04212      Registration Statement No. 333-28141      Registration Statement No. 333-28263      Registration Statement No. 333-62869      Registration Statement
No. 333-78081      Registration Statement No. 333-95303      Registration Statement No. 333-85148      Registration Statement No. 333-85150      Registration Statement
No. 333-108223      Registration Statement No. 333-142874      Registration Statement No. 333-146954      Registration Statement No. 333-159503      Registration Statement
No. 333-159504      Registration Statement No. 333-159505            /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP      New York, New York      February 26, 2010   

</EX-23.1>

<EX-24.1>
 10
 dex241.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

Powers of Attorney 

Exhibit 24.1              POWER OF ATTORNEY             KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the undersigned, being a director or officer of Morgan Stanley, a
Delaware corporation (the  Company ), hereby constitutes and appoints Martin M. Cohen and Gary G. Lynch, and each of them, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power to act separately and full power of
substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead in any and all capacities, to sign one or more Annual Reports for the year ended December 31, 2009, on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended (the  Exchange Act ), or such other form as any such attorney-in-fact may deem necessary or desirable, any amendments thereto, and all additional amendments thereto, each in such form as they or any one of them may approve, and
to file the same with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each
and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done so that such Annual Report shall comply with the Exchange Act, and the applicable Rules and Regulations adopted or issued pursuant thereto, as fully and to all intents and purposes as he or
she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or their substitute or resubstitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.            This Power of Attorney shall not revoke any powers of attorney
previously executed by the undersigned. This Power of Attorney shall not be revoked by any subsequent power of attorney that the undersigned may execute, unless such subsequent power of attorney specifically provides that it revokes this Power of
Attorney by referring to the date of the undersigned s execution of this Power of Attorney. For the avoidance of doubt, whenever two or more powers of attorney granting the powers specified herein are valid, the agents appointed on each shall
act separately unless otherwise specified.             Individuals
executing this document in New York should note the New York statutory disclosures included below and have a notary public complete the acknowledgement following.             IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand in the location indicated on
this 15   th    day of January 2010.         

/s/ ERSKINE B. BOWLES   

/s/ HOWARD J. DAVIES   

Director   

Director   
 
    City:  Chapel Hill   

City: London    
 
    State: North Carolina   

England    

/s/ JAMES H. HANCE, JR.   

/s/ C. ROBERT KIDDER   

Director   

Director   
 
    City:  Charlotte     State: North Carolina   

City:  Columbus     State: Ohio    

/s/ CHARLES H. NOSKI   

Director   

City:  Palos Verdes Estates   

State: California   

</EX-24.1>

<EX-24.2>
 11
 dex242.htm
 POWERS OF ATTORNEY

Powers of Attorney 

Exhibit 24.2              POWER OF ATTORNEY             KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS, that each of the undersigned, being a director or officer of Morgan Stanley, a
Delaware corporation (the  Company ), hereby constitutes and appoints Martin M. Cohen and Gary G. Lynch, and each of them, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power to act separately and full power of
substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead in any and all capacities, to sign one or more Annual Reports for the year ended December 31, 2009, on Form 10-K under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended (the  Exchange Act ), or such other form as any such attorney-in-fact may deem necessary or desirable, any amendments thereto, and all additional amendments thereto, each in such form as they or any one of them may approve, and
to file the same with all exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each
and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done so that such Annual Report shall comply with the Exchange Act, and the applicable Rules and Regulations adopted or issued pursuant thereto, as fully and to all intents and purposes as he or
she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them or their substitute or resubstitute, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.            This Power of Attorney shall not revoke any powers of attorney
previously executed by the undersigned. This Power of Attorney shall not be revoked by any subsequent power of attorney that the undersigned may execute, unless such subsequent power of attorney specifically provides that it revokes this Power of
Attorney by referring to the date of the undersigned s execution of this Power of Attorney. For the avoidance of doubt, whenever two or more powers of attorney granting the powers specified herein are valid, the agents appointed on each shall
act separately unless otherwise specified.             Individuals
executing this document in New York should note the New York statutory disclosures included below and have a notary public complete the acknowledgement following.             IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has hereunto set his or her hand in the location indicated on
this 19   th    day of January 2010.         

/s/ JOHN J. MACK  

/s/ JAMES P. GORMAN   

Chairman of the Board  

President and Chief Executive Officer   

City: New York   

City: New York    
 
    State: New York   

State: New York    

/s/ RUTH PORAT  

/s/ PAUL C. WIRTH   

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer  

Finance Director and Controller   

City: New York     State: New York   

City: New York     State: New York    

/s/ ROY J. BOSTOCK  

/s/ NOBUYUKI HIRANO   

Director  

Director   
 
    City: New York   

City: New York    
 
    State: New York   

State: New York    

/s/ DONALD T. NICOLAISEN  

/s/ HUTHAM S. OLAYAN   

Director  

Director   
 
    City: New York   

City: New York    
 
    State: New York   

State: New York    

/s/ CHARLES E. PHILLIPS, JR.  

/s/ O. GRIFFITH SEXTON   

Director  

Director   
 
    City: New York   

City: New York    
 
    State: New York   

State: New York    

/s/ LAURA D. TYSON  

Director  

City: New York   

State: New York   

ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF PRINCIPAL:             STATE OF NEW YORK            COUNTY OF NEW YORK                     ss.:   
        On the 19   th    day of January in the year 2010 before me, the undersigned, a Notary
Public in and for said State, personally appeared John J. Mack, James P. Gorman, Ruth Porat, Paul C. Wirth, Roy J. Bostock, Nobuyuki Hirano, Donald T. Nicolaisen, Hutham S. Olayan, Charles E. Phillips, Jr., O. Griffith Sexton and Laura D. Tyson,
personally known to me or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the individuals whose names are subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her capacity, and that by his/her
signature on the instrument, the individual, or the person upon behalf of which the individual acted, executed the instrument.         

Annex B        
      STATUTORY DISCLOSURES AND ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS FOR INDIVIDUALS EXECUTING POWERS OF ATTORNEY IN NEW YORK             The statutory disclosures entitled  CAUTION TO THE
PRINCIPAL  and  IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR THE AGENT  are included below solely for the purpose of ensuring compliance with Section 5-1501B of the New York General Obligations Law governing the execution of a power of attorney by
an individual and, except for ensuring the validity of this power of attorney, shall not form part of, or in any way affect the interpretation of, this Power of Attorney or the Form 10-K. For the sake of clarity, notwithstanding anything to the
contrary herein, this Power of Attorney DOES NOT grant the attorneys-in-fact authority to spend the principal s money or sell or dispose of the principal s property during the principal s lifetime.             CAUTION TO THE PRINCIPAL : Your Power of Attorney is an
important document. As the  principal,  you give the person whom you choose (your  agent ) authority to spend your money and sell or dispose of your property during your lifetime without telling you. You do not lose your
authority to act even though you have given your agent similar authority.            When your agent exercises this authority, he or she must act according to any instructions you have provided or, where there are no specific instructions, in your best interest.  Important
Information for the Agent  at the end of this document describes your agent s responsibilities.            Your agent can act on your behalf only after signing the Power of Attorney before a notary public.            You can request information from your agent at any time. If you
are revoking a prior Power of Attorney by executing this Power of Attorney, you should provide written notice of the revocation to your prior agent(s) and to the financial institutions where your accounts are located.            You can revoke or terminate your Power of Attorney at any time
for any reason as long as you are of sound mind. If you are no longer of sound mind, a court can remove an agent for acting improperly.            Your agent cannot make health care decisions for you. You may execute a  Health Care Proxy  to do this.            The law governing Powers of Attorney is contained in the New
York General Obligations Law, Article 5, Title 15. This law is available at a law library, or online through the New York State Senate or Assembly websites, www.senate.state.ny.us or www.assembly.state.ny.us.            If there is anything about this document that you do not
understand, you should ask a lawyer of your own choosing to explain it to you.   

IMPORTANT INFORMATION FOR THE AGENT:             When you accept the authority granted under this Power of
Attorney, a special legal relationship is created between you and the principal. This relationship imposes on you legal responsibilities that continue until you resign or the Power of Attorney is terminated or revoked. You must:            (1) act according to any instructions from the principal, or,
where there are no instructions, in the principal s best interest;            (2) avoid conflicts that would impair your ability to act in the principal s best interest;            (3) keep the principal s property separate and distinct from any assets you own or control, unless otherwise permitted by law;
           (4) keep a record or all receipts, payments, and
transactions conducted for the principal; and            (5) disclose your identity as an agent whenever you act for the principal by writing or printing the principal s name and signing your own name as  agent  in either of the following manner: (Principal s Name) by (Your
Signature) as Agent, or (your signature) as Agent for (Principal s Name).            You may not use the principal s assets to benefit yourself or give major gifts to yourself or anyone else unless the principal has specifically granted you that authority in this Power of Attorney or
in a Statutory Major Gifts Rider attached to this Power of Attorney. If you have that authority, you must act according to any instructions of the principal or, where there are no such instructions, in the principal s best interest. You may
resign by giving written notice to the principal and to any co-agent, successor agent, monitor if one has been named in this document, or the principal s guardian if one has been appointed. If there is anything about this document or your
responsibilities that you do not understand, you should seek legal advice.            Liability of agent:            The meaning of the authority given to you is defined in New York s General Obligations Law, Article 5, Title 15. If it is found that you have violated the law or acted outside the authority granted
to you in the Power of Attorney, you may be liable under the law for your violation.         

Acceptance of Authority Granted by Individuals Executing Powers of Attorney in
New York             The undersigned does hereby accept its
appointment as attorney-in-fact by each of the individuals who executed the within instrument in the State of New York.         
          The undersigned does hereby accept its
appointment as attorney-in-fact by each of the individuals who executed the within instrument in the State of New York.         

ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AGENT:             STATE OF NEW YORK            COUNTY OF NEW YORK                     ss.:   
        On the 21   st    day of January in the year 2010 before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for said State,
personally appeared Gary G. Lynch, Vice Chairman and Chief Legal Officer of Morgan Stanley, personally known to me or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the individual whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and
acknowledged to me that he/she executed the same in his/her capacity, and that by his/her signature on the instrument, the individual, or the person upon behalf of which the individual acted, executed the instrument.         
                 ACKNOWLEDGMENT OF AGENT:             STATE OF NEW YORK            COUNTY OF NEW YORK                     ss.:            On the 21   st    day of January in the year 2010 before me, the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for said State, personally appeared
Martin M. Cohen, Corporate Secretary of Morgan Stanley, personally known to me or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the individual whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he/she executed
the same in his/her capacity, and that by his/her signature on the instrument, the individual, or the person upon behalf of which the individual acted, executed the instrument.         

</EX-24.2>

<EX-31.1>
 12
 dex311.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.1       Certification      I, James P. Gorman, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Morgan Stanley;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.      Date: February 26, 2010       

/s/    J AMES  P.
G ORMAN            
 
   James P. Gorman    
 
   President and Chief Executive Officer     

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 13
 dex312.htm
 RULE 13A-14(A) CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Rule 13a-14(a) Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 31.2       Certification      I, Ruth Porat, certify that:      1. I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Morgan Stanley;      2. Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to
make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;      3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash
flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;      4. The registrant s other certifying
officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f)
and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:      a) Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused
such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly
during the period in which this report is being prepared;      b) Designed such internal control over financial
reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external
purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;      c) Evaluated the effectiveness of the
registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and
     d) Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that
occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal
control over financial reporting; and      5. The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our
most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):      a) All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial
reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and      b) Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.      Date: February 26, 2010       

/s/    R UTH 
P ORAT            
 
   Ruth Porat    
 
   Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer     

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 14
 dex321.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Executive Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.1       CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO      18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO      SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002      In connection with the Annual Report of Morgan Stanley (the
 Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, James P. Gorman, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company,
certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.        

/s/    J AMES  P.
G ORMAN            
 
   James P. Gorman    
 
   President and Chief Executive Officer     
   Dated: February 26, 2010   

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 15
 dex322.htm
 SECTION 1350 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER

Section 1350 Certification of Chief Financial Officer 

EXHIBIT 32.2       CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO      18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,   
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO      SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002      In connection with the Annual Report of Morgan Stanley (the
 Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Ruth Porat, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the
Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:      1. The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and      2. The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of
operations of the Company.        

/s/    R UTH 
P ORAT            
 
   Ruth Porat    
 
   Executive Vice President and    
 
   Chief Financial Officer     
   Dated: February 26, 2010   

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 16
 ms-20091231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 17
 ms-20091231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 18
 ms-20091231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 19
 ms-20091231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 20
 ms-20091231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 21
 ms-20091231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

