<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20110228_10-K_edgar_data_36104_0000950123-11-019888_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>56071690</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>498250</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>12137898</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4946688</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>13305320</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>24108723</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>137</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000950123-11-019888.hdr.sgml : 20110228
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20110228171425
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000950123-11-019888
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		19
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20101231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20110228
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20110228

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			US BANCORP \DE\
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000036104
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS [6021]
		IRS NUMBER:				410255900
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-06880
		FILM NUMBER:		11647394

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		U.S.BANCORP
		STREET 2:		800 NICOLLET MALL
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55402
		BUSINESS PHONE:		(651)466-3000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		U.S.BANCORP
		STREET 2:		800 NICOLLET MALL
		CITY:			MINNEAPOLIS
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55402

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	FIRST BANK SYSTEM INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19920703

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	FIRST BANK STOCK CORP
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19720317

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 
Proc-Type: 2001,MIC-CLEAR
Originator-Name: webmaster@www.sec.gov
Originator-Key-Asymmetric:
 MFgwCgYEVQgBAQICAf8DSgAwRwJAW2sNKK9AVtBzYZmr6aGjlWyK3XmZv3dTINen
 TWSM7vrzLADbmYQaionwg5sDW3P6oaM5D3tdezXMm7z1T+B+twIDAQAB
MIC-Info: RSA-MD5,RSA,
 RsMsqW+5cv6LqT2KKTUgbLdCygnWBQZwWwhvKwuYIUpGvbMX03kjDEiTNJZHaszQ
 qclXaOhwgwuHdTyRfnOH5Q==

 0000950123-11-019888.txt : 20110228

10-K
 1
 x59846e10vk.htm
 FORM 10-K

e10vk 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND
    EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
      Washington, D.C.
    20549 
       Form 10-K   

Commission file number: 1-6880 

U.S. Bancorp  

(Exact name of registrant as
    specified in its charter)  

Delaware 

41-0255900 

(State or other jurisdiction
    of 
    incorporation or organization)  

(I.R.S. Employer 
    Identification No.)   

800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402 

(Address of principal executive
    offices) (Zip Code)  

(651) 446-3000 

(Registrant s telephone
    number, including area code)  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the
    Act: 

Title of each class 

Name of each exchange on which registered 

Common Stock, $.01 par value per share

New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares (each representing 1/100th interest in a
    share of Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock,
    par value $1.00)

New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares (each representing 1/1,000th interest in
    a share of Series B Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, par
    value $1.00)

New York Stock Exchange

Depositary Shares (each representing 1/1,000th interest in
    a share of Series D Non-Cumulative Preferred Stock, par
    value $1.00)

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the
    Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known
    seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file
    reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the
    Act.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
    all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of
    the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding
    12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant
    was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
    subject to such filing requirements for the past
    90 days.  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted
    electronically and posted on its corporate Website, if any,
    every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted
    pursuant to Rule 405 of
     Regulation S-T 
    during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period
    that the registrant was required to submit and post such
    files).  Yes         No   

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers
    pursuant to Item 405 of
     Regulation S-K 
    is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best
    of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or
    information statements incorporated by reference in
    Part III of this
     Form 10-K 
    or any amendment to this
     Form 10-K.     

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large
    accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated
    filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of
     large accelerated filer,   accelerated
    filer  and  smaller reporting company  in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large accelerated
    filer      
    Non-accelerated
    filer      
    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Accelerated
    filer      
    Smaller reporting company

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company
    (as defined in
     Rule 12b-2 
    of the
    Act).  Yes      No   

As of June 30, 2010, the aggregate market value of the
    registrant s common stock held by non-affiliates of the
    registrant was $42.8 billion based on the closing sale
    price as reported on the New York Stock Exchange.

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
    registrant s classes of common stock, as of the latest
    practicable date.

DOCUMENTS
    INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  

Document 

Parts Into Which Incorporated 

1.

Portions of the Annual Report to Shareholders for the Fiscal
    Year Ended December 31, 2010 
    (2010 Annual Report)

Parts I and II

2.

Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
    Shareholders to be held April 19, 2011 (Proxy Statement)

Part III

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

Table of Contents   

PART I  

Item 1.      

Business   

General
    Business Description  

U.S. Bancorp ( U.S. Bancorp  or the
     Company ) is a multi-state financial services holding
    company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
    U.S. Bancorp was incorporated in Delaware in 1929 and
    operates as a financial holding company and a bank holding
    company under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956.
    U.S. Bancorp provides a full range of financial services,
    including lending and depository services, cash management,
    foreign exchange and trust and investment management services.
    It also engages in credit card services, merchant and ATM
    processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and leasing.

U.S. Bancorp s banking subsidiaries are engaged in the
    general banking business, principally in domestic markets. The
    subsidiaries range in size from $53 million to
    $211 billion in deposits and provide a wide range of
    products and services to individuals, businesses, institutional
    organizations, governmental entities and other financial
    institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services are
    principally offered to customers within the Company s
    domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations
    and within certain niche national venues. Lending services
    include traditional credit products as well as credit card
    services, financing and import/export trade, asset-backed
    lending, agricultural finance and other products. Leasing
    products are offered through bank leasing subsidiaries.
    Depository services include checking accounts, savings accounts
    and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as
    foreign exchange, treasury management and receivable lock-box
    collection are provided to corporate customers.
    U.S. Bancorp s bank and trust subsidiaries provide a
    full range of asset management and fiduciary services for
    individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and
    charitable organizations.

U.S. Bancorp s non-banking subsidiaries primarily
    offer investment and insurance products to the Company s
    customers principally within its markets, and mutual fund
    processing services to a broad range of mutual funds.

Banking and investment services are provided through a network
    of 3,031 banking offices principally operating in the Midwest
    and West regions of the United States. The Company operates a
    network of 5,310 ATMs and provides
     24-hour, 
    seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage banking
    services are provided through banking offices and loan
    production offices throughout the Company s markets.
    Consumer lending products may be originated through banking
    offices, indirect correspondents, brokers or other lending
    sources, and a consumer finance division. The Company is also
    one of the largest providers of
    Visa   

    corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust
    services in the United States. A wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Elavon, Inc. ( Elavon ), provides merchant processing
    services directly to merchants and through a network of banking
    affiliations. Affiliates of Elavon provide similar merchant
    services in Canada and segments of Europe. These foreign
    operations are not significant to the Company.

On a full-time equivalent basis, as of December 31, 2010,
    U.S. Bancorp employed 60,584 people.

Competition  

The commercial banking business is highly competitive.
    Subsidiary banks compete with other commercial banks and with
    other financial institutions, including savings and loan
    associations, mutual savings banks, finance companies, mortgage
    banking companies, credit unions and investment companies. In
    recent years, competition has increased from institutions not
    subject to the same regulatory restrictions as domestic banks
    and bank holding companies.

Government
    Policies  

The operations of the Company s various operating units are
    affected by federal and state legislative changes and by
    policies of various regulatory authorities, including those of
    the numerous states in which they operate, the United States and
    foreign governments. These policies include, for example,
    statutory maximum legal lending rates, domestic monetary
    policies of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
    System, United States fiscal

2

Table of Contents   

policy, international currency regulations and monetary
    policies, U.S. Patriot Act and capital adequacy and
    liquidity constraints imposed by bank regulatory agencies.

Supervision
    and Regulation  

U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries are subject to the
    extensive regulatory framework applicable to bank holding
    companies and their subsidiaries. This regulatory framework is
    intended primarily for the protection of depositors, the deposit
    insurance fund of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (the
     FDIC ), consumers and the banking system as a whole,
    and not necessarily for investors in bank holding companies such
    as the Company.

This section summarizes certain provisions of the principal laws
    and regulations applicable to the Company and its subsidiaries.
    The descriptions are not intended to be complete and are
    qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the
    statutes and regulations described below.

Substantial changes to the regulation of bank holding companies
    and their subsidiaries will also be forthcoming from the bank
    regulatory agencies as a result of the enactment in 2010 of the
    Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (the
     Dodd-Frank Act ). Changes in applicable law or
    regulation, and in their application by regulatory agencies,
    cannot be predicted, but they may have a material effect on the
    business and results of the Company and its subsidiaries.

Dodd-Frank Act   The Dodd-Frank Act was enacted
    into law on July 21, 2010. The Dodd-Frank Act significantly
    changes the regulatory framework for financial services
    companies, and requires significant rulemaking and numerous
    studies and reports over the next several years. Among other
    things, it creates a new Financial Stability Oversight Council
    with broad authority to make recommendations or require enhanced
    prudential standards and more stringent supervision for large
    bank holding companies and certain non-bank financial services
    companies. The Dodd-Frank Act provides regulators with the power
    to require a company to sell or transfer assets and terminate
    activities, if they determine that the size or scope of the
    company s activities pose a threat to the safety and
    soundness of the company or the financial stability of the
    United States.

The Dodd-Frank Act establishes the Bureau of Consumer Financial
    Protection, which has broad authority to regulate providers of
    credit, savings, payment and other consumer financial products
    and services. In addition, the Dodd-Frank Act does the
    following: creates a new structure for resolving troubled or
    failed financial institutions; requires certain
     over-the-counter 
    derivative transactions to be cleared in a central clearinghouse
     and/or 
    effected on an exchange; revises the assessment base for the
    calculation of the FDIC insurance assessments; restricts the
    amount of interchange fees on debit card transactions; restricts
    securities trading activities and support for and investments in
    private funds; increases capital requirements; and enhances the
    regulation of consumer mortgage banking and predatory lending
    activities. The Dodd-Frank Act also limits the pre-emption of
    local laws applicable to national banks.

In addition to the Dodd-Frank Act, other legislative proposals
    have been made both domestically and internationally. Among
    other things, these proposals include additional capital and
    liquidity requirements and limitations on size or types of
    activity in which banks may engage.

Federal Reserve Regulation   The Company elected
    to become a financial holding company as of March 13, 2000,
    pursuant to the provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the
     GLBA ). Under the GLBA s system of
     functional regulation,  the Board of Governors of the
    Federal Reserve System (the  Federal Reserve ) acts as
    an  umbrella regulator  for the Company, and certain
    of the Company s subsidiaries are regulated directly by
    additional agencies based on the particular activities of those
    subsidiaries. The Company s banking subsidiaries are
    regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the
     OCC ) and also by the Federal Reserve and the FDIC in
    certain areas. Supervision and regulation by the responsible
    regulatory agency generally includes comprehensive annual
    reviews of all major aspects of a bank s business and
    condition, and imposition of periodic reporting requirements and
    limitations on investments and certain types of activities.

If a financial holding company or a depository institution
    controlled by a financial holding company ceases to meet certain
    capital or management standards, the Federal Reserve may impose
    corrective capital and managerial requirements on the financial
    holding company, and place limitations on its ability to conduct
    all of the business activities that financial holding companies
    are generally permitted to conduct. See  Permissible
    Business

3

Table of Contents   

Activities  below. If the failure to meet these standards
    persists, a financial holding company may be required to divest
    its depository institution subsidiaries, or cease all activities
    other than those activities that may be conducted by bank
    holding companies that are not financial holding companies.

Federal Reserve regulations also provide that, if any depository
    institution controlled by a financial holding company fails to
    maintain a satisfactory rating under the Community Reinvestment
    Act ( CRA ), the Federal Reserve must prohibit the
    financial holding company and its subsidiaries from engaging in
    the additional activities in which only financial holding
    companies may engage. See  Community Reinvestment Act 
    below. At December 31, 2010, the Company s
    depository-institution subsidiaries met the capital, management
    and CRA requirements necessary to permit the Company to conduct
    the broader activities permitted for financial holding companies
    under the GLBA.

The Dodd-Frank Act codified existing Federal Reserve policy
    requiring the Company to act as a source of financial strength
    to its bank subsidiaries, and to commit resources to support
    these subsidiaries in circumstances where it might not otherwise
    do so. However, because the GLBA provides for functional
    regulation of financial holding company activities by various
    regulators, the GLBA prohibits the Federal Reserve from
    requiring payment by a holding company to a depository
    institution if the functional regulator of the depository
    institution objects to the payment. In those cases, the Federal
    Reserve could instead require the divestiture of the depository
    institution and impose operating restrictions pending the
    divestiture. As a result of the Dodd-Frank Act, non-bank
    subsidiaries of a holding company that engage in activities
    permissible for an insured depository institution must be
    examined and regulated in a manner that is at least as stringent
    as if the activities were conducted by the lead depository
    institution of the holding company.

Permissible Business Activities   As a financial
    holding company, the Company may affiliate with securities firms
    and insurance companies and engage in other activities that are
    financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities
    that are financial in nature.  Financial in nature 
    activities include the following: securities underwriting,
    dealing and market making; sponsoring mutual funds and
    investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency;
    merchant banking; and activities that the Federal Reserve, in
    consultation with the Secretary of the U.S. Treasury,
    determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such
    financial activity.  Complementary activities  are
    activities that the Federal Reserve determines upon application
    to be complementary to a financial activity and that do not pose
    a safety and soundness risk.

The Company generally does not need Federal Reserve approval to
    acquire a company (other than a bank holding company, bank or
    savings association) engaged in activities that are financial in
    nature or incidental to activities that are financial in nature,
    as determined by the Federal Reserve. However, the Dodd-Frank
    Act added a provision requiring that approval if the total
    consolidated assets to be acquired exceed $10 billion.
    Financial holding companies are also required to obtain the
    approval of the Federal Reserve before they may acquire more
    than 5 percent of the voting shares or substantially all of
    the assets of an unaffiliated bank holding company, bank or
    savings association.

Interstate Banking   Under the Riegle-Neal
    Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994 (the
     Riegle-Neal Act ), a bank holding company may acquire
    banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state
    requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a
    minimum period of time (not to exceed five years). Also, such an
    acquisition is not permitted if the bank holding company
    controls, prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more
    than 10 percent of the total amount of deposits of insured
    depository institutions nationwide, or, if the acquisition is
    the bank holding company s initial entry into the state,
    more than 30 percent of the deposits of insured depository
    institutions in the state (or any lesser or greater amount set
    by the state).

The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state
    lines to create interstate branches. Under the Dodd-Frank Act,
    banks are permitted to establish new branches in another state
    to the same extent as banks chartered in the other state.

Regulatory Approval for Acquisitions   In
    determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition,
    federal bank regulators will consider a number of factors,
    including the following: the effect of the acquisition on
    competition, financial condition and future prospects (including
    current and projected capital ratios and levels); the
    competence, experience and integrity of management and its
    record of compliance with laws and regulations; the

4

Table of Contents   

convenience and needs of the communities to be served (including
    the acquiring institution s record of compliance under the
    CRA); and the effectiveness of the acquiring institution in
    combating money laundering activities. In addition, under the
    Dodd-Frank Act, approval of interstate transactions requires
    that the acquiror satisfy regulatory standards for well
    capitalized and well managed institutions.

Dividend Restrictions   The Company is a legal
    entity separate and distinct from its subsidiaries. Typically,
    the majority of the Company s operating funds are received
    in the form of dividends paid to the Company by U.S. Bank
    National Association, its principal banking subsidiary. Federal
    law imposes limitations on the payment of dividends by national
    banks.

Dividends payable by U.S. Bank National Association,
    U.S. Bank National Association ND and the Company s
    trust bank subsidiaries, as national banking associations, are
    limited to the lesser of the amounts calculated under a
     recent earnings  test and an  undivided
    profits  test. Under the recent earnings test, a dividend
    may not be paid if the total of all dividends declared by a bank
    in any calendar year is in excess of the current year s net
    income combined with the retained net income of the two
    preceding years, unless the bank obtains the approval of the
    OCC. Under the undivided profits test, a dividend may not be
    paid in excess of a bank s  undivided profits. 
    See Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements included in the Company s 2010 Annual Report for
    the amount of dividends that the Company s principal
    banking subsidiaries could pay to the Company at
    December 31, 2010, without the approval of their banking
    regulators.

In addition to the dividend restrictions described above, the
    OCC, the Federal Reserve and the FDIC have authority to prohibit
    or limit the payment of dividends by the banking organizations
    they supervise (including the Company and its bank
    subsidiaries), if, in the banking regulator s opinion,
    payment of a dividend would constitute an unsafe or unsound
    practice in light of the financial condition of the banking
    organization. Subject to exceptions for well capitalized and
    well managed holding companies, Federal Reserve regulations also
    require approval of holding company purchases and redemptions of
    its securities if the gross consideration paid exceeds
    10 percent of consolidated net worth for any
     12-month 
    period.

In addition, Federal Reserve policy on the payment of dividends,
    stock redemptions and stock repurchases requires that bank
    holding companies consult with and inform the Federal Reserve in
    advance of doing any of the following: declaring and paying
    dividends that could raise safety and soundness concerns
    ( e.g. , declaring and paying dividends that exceed
    earnings for the period for which dividends are being paid);
    redeeming or repurchasing capital instruments when experiencing
    financial weakness; and redeeming or repurchasing common stock
    and perpetual preferred stock, if the result will be a net
    reduction in the amount of such capital instruments outstanding
    for the quarter in which the reduction occurs.

In November 2010, the Federal Reserve issued an addendum to its
    policy on dividends, stock redemptions and stock repurchases
    that is specifically applicable to the 19 largest bank holding
    companies (including the Company) that are covered by the
    Supervisory Capital Assessment Program ( SCAP ). The
    addendum provides for Federal Reserve review of dividend
    increases, implementation of capital repurchase programs and
    other capital repurchases or redemptions. The addendum also
    requires that holding companies subject to SCAP prepare and file
    a comprehensive capital plan that includes a stress testing
    framework. These plans will be evaluated by the Federal Reserve
    based on the holding company s risk profile, currently
    applicable capital standards and the reasonableness of plans to
    address future capital standards, including Basel III
    (discussed below) and relevant requirements under the Dodd-Frank
    Act.

Capital Requirements   Federal banking
    regulators have adopted risk-based capital and leverage
    guidelines that require the
     capital-to-assets 
    ratios of financial institutions to meet certain minimum
    standards. The risk-based capital ratio is calculated by
    allocating assets and specified off-balance sheet financial
    instruments into risk weighted categories (with higher levels of
    capital being required for the categories perceived as
    representing greater risk), and is used to determine the amount
    of a financial institution s total risk-weighted assets
    ( RWA ).

Under the guidelines, capital is divided into two tiers:
    Tier 1 capital and Tier 2 capital. The amount of
    Tier 2 capital may not exceed the amount of Tier 1
    capital. Total capital is the sum of Tier 1 capital and
    Tier 2 capital. Under the guidelines, banking organizations
    are required to maintain a total capital ratio (total capital to
    RWA) of 8 percent and a Tier 1 capital ratio
    (Tier 1 capital to RWA) of 4 percent. At
    December 31, 2010, the Company s

5

Table of Contents   

consolidated total capital ratio was 13.3 percent and its
    Tier 1 capital ratio was 10.5 percent. For a further
    description of these guidelines, see Note 15 of the Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Company s 2010
    Annual Report.

The federal banking regulators also have established minimum
    leverage ratio guidelines. The leverage ratio is defined as
    Tier 1 capital divided by adjusted average total assets.
    The minimum leverage ratio is 3 percent for bank holding
    companies that are considered  strong  under Federal
    Reserve guidelines or which have implemented the Federal
    Reserve s risk-based capital measure for market risk. Other
    bank holding companies must have a minimum leverage ratio of
    4 percent. Bank holding companies may be expected to
    maintain ratios well above the minimum levels, depending upon
    their particular condition, risk profile and growth plans. At
    December 31, 2010, the Company s leverage ratio was
    9.1 percent.

The minimum risk-based capital requirements adopted by the
    federal banking agencies follow the Capital Accord of the Basel
    Committee on Banking Supervision. In 2004, the Basel Committee
    published a revision to the accord ( Basel II ).
    U.S. banking regulators published a final Basel II
    rule in December 2007, which requires the Company to implement
    Basel II at the holding company level, as well as at its
    key U.S. bank subsidiaries. A further revision to the
    accord was published in December 2010 ( Basel III ),
    with implementation to be phased in beginning in 2013. Although
    banking regulators have not yet issued regulations implementing
    Basel III, the domestic implementation of Basel III will
    increase the Company s capital requirements.

The Dodd-Frank Act contained amendments to holding company
    capital requirements. These amendments effectively eliminated
    differences between the minimum capital requirements applicable
    to insured depository institutions and their holding companies
    by phasing out the use of hybrid debt instruments (such as trust
    preferred securities) in determining holding company regulatory
    capital.

For additional information regarding the Company s
    regulatory capital, see Capital Management in the Company s
    2010 Annual Report on pages 53 to 54.

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement
    Act   The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
    Improvement Act of 1991 (the  FDICIA ) provides a
    framework for regulation of depository institutions and their
    affiliates (including parent holding companies) by federal
    banking regulators. As part of that framework, the FDICIA
    requires the relevant federal banking regulator to take
     prompt corrective action  with respect to a
    depository institution, if that institution does not meet
    certain capital adequacy standards.

Supervisory actions by the appropriate federal banking regulator
    under the  prompt corrective action  rules generally
    depend upon an institution s classification within five
    capital categories. The regulations apply only to banks and not
    to bank holding companies such as the Company; however, subject
    to limitations that may be imposed pursuant to the GLBA, the
    Federal Reserve is authorized to take appropriate action at the
    holding company level, based on the undercapitalized status of
    the holding company s subsidiary banking institutions. In
    certain instances relating to an undercapitalized banking
    institution, the bank holding company would be required to
    guarantee the performance of the undercapitalized
    subsidiary s capital restoration plan, and could be liable
    for civil money damages for failure to fulfill those guarantee
    commitments.

Deposit Insurance   Under current FDIC
    regulations, each depository institution is assigned to a risk
    category based on capital and supervisory measures. In 2009, the
    FDIC revised the method for calculating the assessment rate for
    depository institutions by introducing several adjustments to an
    institution s initial base assessment rate. A depository
    institution is assessed premiums by the FDIC based on its risk
    category and the amount of deposits held. Higher levels of banks
    failures have dramatically increased FDIC resolution costs and
    depleted the deposit insurance fund. In addition, in 2008, the
    amount of FDIC insurance coverage for insured deposits was
    generally increased from $100,000 per depositor account
    ownership type to $250,000.

In light of the increased stress on the deposit insurance fund
    caused by these developments, and in order to maintain a strong
    funding position and restore the reserve ratios of the deposit
    insurance fund, the FDIC (a) imposed a special assessment
    in June 2009, (b) has increased assessment rates of insured
    institutions generally, and (c) required insured
    institutions to prepay on December 30, 2009 the premiums
    that were expected to become due for 2010, 2011 and 2012. In
    addition, the Dodd-Frank Act alters the assessment base for
    deposit insurance assessments from a deposit to an asset base,
    and seeks to fund part of the cost of the Dodd-Frank Act by
    increasing

6

Table of Contents   

the deposit insurance reserve fund to 1.35 percent of
    estimated insured deposits. The Dodd-Frank Act also requires
    that FDIC assessments be set in a manner that offsets the cost
    of the assessment increases for institutions with consolidated
    assets of less than $10 billion. This provision effectively
    places the increased assessment costs on larger financial
    institutions such as the Company.

The Dodd-Frank Act also permanently increased deposit insurance
    coverage from $100,000 per account ownership type to $250,000,
    and extended the unlimited insurance of non-interest bearing
    transaction accounts under the FDIC Transaction Account Guaranty
    program to January 1, 2013.

Powers of the FDIC Upon Insolvency of an Insured
    Institution   If the FDIC is appointed the
    conservator or receiver of an insured depository institution
    upon its insolvency or in certain other events, the FDIC has the
    power to (a) transfer any of the depository
    institution s assets and liabilities to a new obligor
    without the approval of the depository institution s
    creditors; (b) enforce the terms of the depository
    institution s contracts pursuant to their terms; or
    (c) repudiate or disaffirm any contracts (if the FDIC
    determines that performance of the contract is burdensome and
    that the repudiation or disaffirmation is necessary to promote
    the orderly administration of the depository institution). These
    provisions would be applicable to obligations and liabilities of
    the Company s subsidiaries that are insured depository
    institutions, such as U.S. Bank National Association.

Depositor Preference   Under federal law, in the
    event of the liquidation or other resolution of an insured
    depository institution, the claims of a receiver of the
    institution for administrative expense and the claims of holders
    of U.S. deposit liabilities (including the FDIC, as
    subrogee of the depositors) have priority over the claims of
    other unsecured creditors of the institution, including holders
    of publicly issued senior or subordinated debt and depositors in
     non-U.S. offices. 
    As a result, those noteholders and depositors would be treated
    differently from, and could receive, if anything, substantially
    less than, the depositors in U.S. offices of the depository.

Orderly Liquidation of Bank Holding
    Companies   The Dodd-Frank Act provides for the
    orderly liquidation of certain financial services companies
    (including bank holding companies) through the appointment of
    the FDIC as receiver upon insolvency and the occurrence of
    certain other events. Although these provisions became effective
    upon enactment of the Dodd-Frank Act, only some of the
    regulations have been proposed, and none have been adopted, to
    date.

In preparation for the potential exercise of this authority, the
    FDIC created the Office of Complex Financial Institutions. Its
    duties include the continuous review and oversight of bank
    holding companies with assets of more than $100 billion.
    The Dodd-Frank Act also requires each bank holding company with
    $50 billion or more in assets to prepare a  living
    will  to facilitate the company s rapid and orderly
    liquidation in the event of material financial distress or
    failure.

Liability of Commonly Controlled
    Institutions   An FDIC-insured depository
    institution can be held liable for any loss incurred or expected
    to be incurred by the FDIC in connection with another
    FDIC-insured institution under common control with that
    institution being  in default  or  in danger of
    default  (commonly referred to as
      cross-guarantee  
    liability). An FDIC claim for cross-guarantee liability against
    a depository institution is generally superior in right of
    payment to claims of the holding company and its affiliates
    against the depository institution.

Transactions with Affiliates   There are various
    legal restrictions on the extent to which the Company and its
    non-bank subsidiaries may borrow or otherwise obtain funding
    from the Company s banking subsidiaries, including
    U.S. Bank National Association and U.S. Bank National
    Association ND. Under the Federal Reserve Act and
    Regulation W of the Federal Reserve, the Company s
    banking subsidiaries (and their subsidiaries) may only engage in
    lending and other  covered transactions  with non-bank
    and non-savings bank affiliates to the following extent:
    (a) in the case of any single affiliate, the aggregate
    amount of covered transactions may not exceed 10 percent of
    the capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary; and
    (b) in the case of all affiliates, the aggregate amount of
    covered transactions may not exceed 20 percent of the
    capital stock and surplus of the banking subsidiary.

Covered transactions between the Company s banking
    subsidiaries and their affiliates are also subject to certain
    collateralization requirements. All covered transactions,
    including transactions with a third party in which an affiliate
    of the banking subsidiary has a financial interest, must be
    conducted on market terms.  Covered transactions  are
    defined to include (a) a loan or extension of credit by a
    bank subsidiary to an affiliate, (b) a purchase of
    securities issued to a banking subsidiary by an affiliate,
    (c) a purchase of assets (unless otherwise

7

Table of Contents   

exempted by the Federal Reserve) by the banking subsidiary from
    an affiliate, (d) the acceptance of securities issued by an
    affiliate to the banking subsidiary as collateral for a loan,
    and (e) the issuance of a guarantee, acceptance or letter
    of credit by the banking subsidiary on behalf of an affiliate.

Anti-Money Laundering and Suspicious
    Activity   Several federal laws, including the Bank
    Secrecy Act, the Money Laundering Control Act and the Uniting
    and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools
    Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (the
     Patriot Act ) require all financial institutions
    (including banks and securities broker-dealers) to, among other
    things, implement policies and procedures relating to anti-money
    laundering, compliance, suspicious activities, and currency
    transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The
    Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate
    the effectiveness of an applicant in combating money laundering
    when determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.

Community Reinvestment Act   The Company s
    banking subsidiaries are subject to the provisions of the CRA.
    Under the terms of the CRA, the banks have a continuing and
    affirmative obligation, consistent with safe and sound
    operation, to help meet the credit needs of their communities,
    including providing credit to individuals residing in low- and
    moderate-income neighborhoods. The CRA does not establish
    specific lending requirements or programs for financial
    institutions, and does not limit an institution s
    discretion to develop the types of products and services that it
    believes are best suited to its particular community in a manner
    consistent with the CRA.

The OCC regularly assesses each of the Company s banking
    subsidiaries on its record in meeting the credit needs of the
    community served by that institution, including low-income and
    moderate-income neighborhoods. The assessment also is considered
    when the Federal Reserve reviews applications by banking
    institutions to acquire, merge or consolidate with another
    banking institution or its holding company, to establish a new
    branch office that will accept deposits or to relocate an
    office. In the case of a bank holding company applying for
    approval to acquire a bank or other bank holding company, the
    Federal Reserve will assess the records of each subsidiary
    depository institution of the applicant bank holding company,
    and those records may be the basis for denying the application.

U.S. Bank National Association received an
     outstanding  CRA rating and U.S. Bank National
    Association ND received a  satisfactory  CRA rating in
    their most recent examinations, covering the periods from
    January 1, 2006 through December 31, 2008.

Regulation of Brokerage, Investment Advisory and Insurance
    Activities   The Company conducts securities
    underwriting, dealing and brokerage activities in the United
    States through U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc.
    ( USBII ) and other subsidiaries. These activities are
    subject to regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission
    (the  SEC ), the Financial Industry Regulatory
    Authority and other authorities, including state regulators.
    These regulations generally include licensing of securities
    personnel, interactions with customers, trading operations and
    periodic examinations.

Securities regulators impose capital requirements on USBII and
    monitor its financial operations with periodical financial
    reviews. In addition, USBII is a member of the Securities
    Investor Protection Corporation.

The operations of First American Funds mutual funds also are
    subject to regulation by the SEC. The Company s operations
    in the areas of insurance brokerage and reinsurance of credit
    life insurance are subject to regulation and supervision by
    various state insurance regulatory authorities, including the
    licensing of insurance brokers and agents.

Financial Privacy   Under the requirements
    imposed by the GLBA, the Company and its subsidiaries are
    required periodically to disclose to their retail customers the
    Company s policies and practices with respect to the
    sharing of nonpublic customer information with its affiliates
    and others, and the confidentiality and security of that
    information. Under the GLBA, retail customers also must be given
    the opportunity to  opt out  of information-sharing
    arrangements with nonaffiliates, subject to certain exceptions
    set forth in the GLBA.

Other Supervision and Regulation   The
    activities of U.S. Bank National Association and
    U.S. Bank National Association ND as consumer lenders also
    are subject to regulation under various U.S. federal laws,
    including the
     Truth-in-Lending, 
    Equal Credit Opportunity, Fair Credit Reporting, Fair Debt
    Collection Practice and Electronic Funds Transfer acts, as well
    as various state laws. These statutes impose requirements on
    consumer loan origination and collection practices.

8

Table of Contents   

The Company is subject to the disclosure and regulatory
    requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as
    administered by the SEC, by virtue of the Company s status
    as a public company. As a listed company on the New York Stock
    Exchange (the  NYSE ), the Company is subject to the
    rules of the NYSE for listed companies.

Website
    Access to SEC Reports  

U.S. Bancorp s internet website can be found at
     usbank.com . U.S. Bancorp makes available free of
    charge on its website its annual reports on
     Form 10-K, 
    quarterly reports on
     Form 10-Q, 
    current reports on
     Form 8-K, 
    and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to
    Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as well as all
    other reports filed by U.S. Bancorp with the SEC as soon as
    reasonably practicable after electronically filed with, or
    furnished to, the United States Securities and Exchange
    Commission.

Additional
    Information  

Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be
    found in the Company s 2010 Annual Report on page 20
    under the heading  Acquisitions  and on pages 55 to
    60 under the heading  Line of Business Financial
    Review.  That information is incorporated into this report
    by reference.

Item 1A.      

Risk
    Factors   

Information in response to this Item 1A can be found in the
    Company s 2010 Annual Report on pages 131 to 138 under the
    heading  Risk Factors.  That information is
    incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 1B.      

Unresolved
    Staff Comments   

None.

Item 2.      

Properties   

U.S. Bancorp and its significant subsidiaries occupy
    headquarter offices under a long-term lease in Minneapolis,
    Minnesota. The Company also leases nine freestanding operations
    centers in Cincinnati, Denver, Milwaukee, Minneapolis, Overland
    Park, Portland and St. Paul. The Company owns 11 principal
    operations centers in Cincinnati, Coeur d Alene, Fargo,
    Milwaukee, Olathe, Owensboro, Portland, St. Louis and St.
    Paul. At December 31, 2010, the Company s subsidiaries
    owned and operated a total of 1,507 facilities and leased an
    additional 1,975 facilities, all of which are well maintained.
    The Company believes its current facilities are adequate to meet
    its needs. Additional information with respect to premises and
    equipment is presented in Notes 9 and 22 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Company s
    2010 Annual Report. That information is incorporated into this
    report by reference.

Item 3.      

Legal
    Proceedings   

During 2010, the Company paid an $800,000 penalty imposed under
    section 6707 A(b)(2) of the Internal Revenue Code for
    failure to include certain reportable transaction information in
    its 2004   2007 federal income tax returns related to
    a listed transaction.

Item 4.      

(Removed
    and Reserved)   

Capital
    Covenants  

The Company has entered into several transactions involving the
    issuance of capital securities ( Capital Securities )
    by Delaware statutory trusts formed by the Company (the
     Trusts ), the issuance by the Company of preferred
    stock ( Preferred Stock ) or the issuance by an
    indirect subsidiary of U.S. Bank National Association of
    preferred stock exchangeable for the Company s Preferred
    Stock under certain circumstances ( Exchangeable Preferred
    Stock ). Simultaneously with the closing of each of those
    transactions, the Company entered into a replacement capital
    covenant (each, a  Replacement Capital Covenant  and
    collectively, the  Replacement Capital Covenants ) for
    the benefit of persons that buy, hold or sell a specified series
    of long-term indebtedness of the

9

Table of Contents   

Company or U.S. Bank National Association (the
     Covered Debt ). Each of the Replacement Capital
    Covenants provides that neither the Company nor any of its
    subsidiaries (including any of the Trusts) will repay, redeem or
    purchase any of the Preferred Stock, Exchangeable Preferred
    Stock or the Capital Securities and the securities held by the
    Trust (the  Other Securities ), as applicable, on or
    before the date specified in the applicable Replacement Capital
    Covenant, with certain limited exceptions, except to the extent
    that, during the 180 days prior to the date of that
    repayment, redemption or purchase, the Company has received
    proceeds from the sale of qualifying securities that
    (i) have equity-like characteristics that are the same as,
    or more equity-like than, the applicable characteristics of the
    Preferred Stock, the Exchangeable Preferred Stock, the Capital
    Securities or Other Securities, as applicable, at the time of
    repayment, redemption or purchase, and (ii) the Company has
    obtained the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board, if
    such approval is then required by the Federal Reserve Board or,
    in the case of the Exchangeable Preferred Stock, the approval of
    the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.

The Company will provide a copy of any Replacement Capital
    Covenant to a holder of the relevant Covered Debt. For copies of
    any of these documents, holders should write to Investor
    Relations, U.S. Bancorp, 800 Nicollet Mall,
    Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402, or call
     (866) 775-9668. 

The following table identifies the (i) closing date for
    each transaction, (ii) issuer, (iii) series of Capital
    Securities, Preferred Stock or Exchangeable Preferred Stock
    issued in the relevant transaction, (iv) Other Securities,
    if any, and (v) applicable Covered Debt.

10

Table of Contents   

(a)  

USB Realty Corp. is an indirect subsidiary of U.S. Bank
    National Association.  

(b)  

Under certain circumstances, upon the direction of the Office
    of the Comptroller of the Currency, each share of USB Realty
    Corp. s Series A Preferred Stock will be automatically
    exchanged for one share of the U.S. Bancorp s
    Series C Non-cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock.  

PART II  

Item 5.      

Market
    for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters
    and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities   

The following table provides a detailed analysis of all shares
    repurchased by the Company during the fourth quarter of 2010:

(a)  

On December 9, 2008, the Company announced that the
    Board of Directors approved an authorization to repurchase
    20 million shares of common stock through December 31,
    2010. All shares purchased during October and November of 2010
    were purchased under the publicly announced December 9,
    2008 authorization.  

(b)  

On December 13, 2010, the Company announced that the
    Board of Directors approved an authorization to repurchase
    20 million shares of common stock through December 31,
    2011. The December 2010 authorization replaced the December 2008
    authorization. All shares purchased during December of 2010 were
    purchased under the publicly announced December 13, 2010
    authorization.  

11

Table of Contents   

Additional
    Information  

Additional information in response to this Item 5 can be
    found in the Company s 2010 Annual Report on page 130 under
    the heading  U.S. Bancorp Supplemental Financial Data
    (Unaudited).  That information is incorporated into this
    report by reference.

Item 6.      

Selected
    Financial Data   

Information in response to this Item 6 can be found in the
    Company s 2010 Annual Report on page 19 under the
    heading  Table 1   Selected Financial Data. 
    That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 7.      

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
    Operations   

Information in response to this Item 7 can be found in the
    Company s 2010 Annual Report on pages 18 to 64 under the
    heading  Management s Discussion and Analysis. 
    That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 7A.      

Quantitative
    and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk   

Information in response to this Item 7A can be found in the
    Company s 2010 Annual Report on pages 33 to 54 under the
    heading  Corporate Risk Profile.  That information is
    incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 8.      

Financial
    Statements and Supplementary Data   

Information in response to this Item 8 can be found in the
    Company s 2010 Annual Report on pages 65 to 130 under the
    headings  Report of Management,   Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the
    Consolidated Financial Statements,   Report of
    Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal
    Control Over Financial Reporting,   U.S. Bancorp
    Consolidated Balance Sheet,   U.S. Bancorp
    Consolidated Statement of Income,   U.S. Bancorp
    Consolidated Statement of Shareholders  Equity, 
     U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Cash
    Flows,   Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements,   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance
    Sheet   Five Year Summary (Unaudited), 
     U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of
    Income   Five Year Summary (Unaudited), 
     U.S. Bancorp Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data
    (Unaudited),   U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Daily
    Average Balance Sheet and Related Yields and Rates
    (Unaudited)  and  U.S. Bancorp Supplemental
    Financial Data (Unaudited).  That information is
    incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 9.      

Changes
    in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and
    Financial Disclosure   

None.

Item 9A.      

Controls
    and Procedures   

Information in response to this Item 9A can be found in the
    Company s 2010 Annual Report on page 64 under the
    heading  Controls and Procedures  and on pages 65 and
    67 under the headings  Report of Management  and
     Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  That
    information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 9B.      

Other
    Information   

None.

12

Table of Contents   

PART III  

Item 10.      

Directors,
    Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   

Executive
    Officers of the Registrant  

Richard
    K. Davis   

Mr. Davis is Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Davis, 53, has served as
    Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since December 2007, Chief
    Executive Officer since December 2006 and President since
    October 2004. He also served as Chief Operating Officer from
    October 2004 until December 2006. From the time of the merger of
    Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001 until
    October 2004, Mr. Davis served as Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp. From the time of the merger, Mr. Davis
    was responsible for Consumer Banking, including Retail Payment
    Solutions (card services), and he assumed additional
    responsibility for Commercial Banking in 2003. Mr. Davis
    has held management positions with the Company since joining
    Star Banc Corporation, one of its predecessors, in 1993 as
    Executive Vice President.

Jennie
    P. Carlson   

Ms. Carlson is Executive Vice President, Human Resources,
    of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Carlson, 50, has served in this
    position since January 2002. Until that time, she served as
    Executive Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Corporate
    Secretary of U.S. Bancorp since the merger of Firstar
    Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001. From 1995
    until the merger, she was General Counsel and Secretary of
    Firstar Corporation and Star Banc Corporation.

Andrew
    Cecere   

Mr. Cecere is Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of
    U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Cecere, 50, has served in this
    position since February 2007. Until that time, he served as Vice
    Chairman, Wealth Management and Securities Services, since the
    merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February
    2001. Previously, he had served as an executive officer of the
    former U.S. Bancorp, including as Chief Financial Officer
    from May 2000 through February 2001.

Terrance
    R. Dolan   

Mr. Dolan is Vice Chairman, Wealth Management and
    Securities Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Dolan, 49,
    has served in this position since July 2010. From September 1998
    to July 2010, Mr. Dolan served as U.S. Bancorp s
    Controller. He additionally held the title of Executive Vice
    President from January 2002 until June 2010 and Senior Vice
    President from September 1998 until January 2002.

Richard
    C. Hartnack   

Mr. Hartnack is Vice Chairman, Consumer and Small Business
    Banking, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hartnack, 65, has served
    in this position since April 2005, when he joined
    U.S. Bancorp. Prior to joining U.S. Bancorp, he served
    as Vice Chairman of Union Bank of California from 1991 to 2005
    with responsibility for Community Banking and Investment
    Services.

Richard
    J. Hidy   

Mr. Hidy is Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hidy, 48, has served in this
    position since 2005. From 2003 until 2005, he served as Senior
    Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp,
    having served as Senior Vice President and Associate General
    Counsel of U.S. Bancorp and Firstar Corporation since 1999.

13

Table of Contents   

Joseph
    C. Hoesley   

Mr. Hoesley is Vice Chairman, Commercial Real Estate, of
    U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hoesley, 56, has served in this
    position since June 2006. From June 2002 until June 2006, he
    served as Executive Vice President and National Group Head of
    Commercial Real Estate at U.S. Bancorp, having previously
    served as Senior Vice President and Group Head of Commercial
    Real Estate since joining U.S. Bancorp in 1992.

Pamela
    A. Joseph   

Ms. Joseph is Vice Chairman, Payment Services, of
    U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Joseph, 52, has served in this
    position since December 2004. Since November 2004, she has been
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Elavon Inc., a wholly
    owned subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp. Prior to that time, she
    had been President and Chief Operating Officer of Elavon Inc.
    since February 2000.

Howell
    D. McCullough III   

Mr. McCullough is Executive Vice President and Chief
    Strategy Officer of U.S. Bancorp and Head of
    U.S. Bancorp s Enterprise Revenue Office.
    Mr. McCullough, 54, has served in these positions since
    September 2007. From July 2005 until September 2007, he served
    as Director of Strategy and Acquisitions of the Payment Services
    business of U.S. Bancorp. He also served as Chief Financial
    Officer of the Payment Services business from October 2006 until
    September 2007. From March 2001 until July 2005, he served as
    Senior Vice President and Director of Investor Relations at
    U.S. Bancorp.

Lee R.
    Mitau   

Mr. Mitau is Executive Vice President and General Counsel
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Mitau, 62, has served in this
    position since 1995. Mr. Mitau also serves as Corporate
    Secretary. Prior to 1995 he was a partner at the law firm of
    Dorsey   Whitney LLP.

P.W.
    Parker   

Mr. Parker is Executive Vice President and Chief Credit
    Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Parker, 54, has served in
    this position since October 2007. From March 2005 until October
    2007, he served as Executive Vice President of Credit Portfolio
    Management of U.S. Bancorp, having served as Senior Vice
    President of Credit Portfolio Management of U.S. Bancorp
    since January 2002.

Richard
    B. Payne, Jr.   

Mr. Payne is Vice Chairman, Wholesale Banking, of
    U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Payne, 63, has served in this
    position since November 2010, when he assumed the additional
    responsibility for Commercial Banking at U.S. Bancorp. From
    July 2006, when he joined U.S. Bancorp, until November
    2010, Mr. Payne served as Vice Chairman, Corporate Banking
    at U.S. Bancorp. Prior to joining U.S. Bancorp, he
    served as Executive Vice President for National City Corporation
    in Cleveland, with responsibility for Capital Markets, from 2001
    to 2006.

Jeffry
    H. von Gillern   

Mr. von Gillern is Vice Chairman, Technology and Operations
    Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. von Gillern, 45, has served
    in this position since July 2010. From April 2001, when he
    joined U.S. Bancorp, until July 2010, Mr. von Gillern
    served as Executive Vice President of U.S. Bancorp,
    additionally serving as Chief Information Officer from July 2007
    until July 2010.

Code of
    Ethics and Business Conduct  

The Company has adopted a Code of Ethics and Business Conduct
    that applies to its principal executive officer, principal
    financial officer and principal accounting officer. The
    Company s Code of Ethics and Business Conduct can be found
    at  www.usbank.com  by clicking on  About
    U.S. Bank  and then clicking on  Ethics 
    under the  Investor/Shareholder Information  heading,
    which is located at the left side of the bottom of the page. The

14

Table of Contents   

Company intends to satisfy the disclosure requirements under
    Item 5.05 of
     Form 8-K 
    regarding amendments to, or waivers from, certain provisions of
    the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct that apply to its
    principal executive officer, principal financial officer and
    principal accounting officer by posting such information on its
    website, at the address and location specified above.

Additional
    Information  

Additional information in response to this Item 10 can be
    found in the Company s Proxy Statement under the headings
     Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting
    Compliance,   Proposal 1   Election of
    Directors  and  Board Meetings and Committees. 
    That information is incorporated into this report by reference.

Item 11.      

Executive
    Compensation   

Information in response to this Item 11 can be found in the
    Company s Proxy Statement under the headings
     Executive Compensation  and  Director
    Compensation.  That information is incorporated into this
    report by reference.

Item 12.      

Security
    Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and
    Related Stockholder Matters   

Equity
    Compensation Plan Information   

The following table summarizes information regarding the
    Company s equity compensation plans in effect as of
    December 31, 2010:

(1)   

No shares are available for granting future awards under the
    U.S. Bancorp 2001 Stock Incentive Plan or the U.S. Bancorp 1998
    Executive Stock Incentive Plan.  

The 68,908,298 shares available under the Amended and
    Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan are available for future
    awards in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights,
    restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance awards or
    other stock-based awards, except that only 23,408,818 of these
    shares are available for future grants of awards other than
    stock options or stock appreciation rights.  

(2)   

Includes shares underlying stock options, performance-based
    restricted stock units (awarded to the members of the
    Company s managing committee in 2010 and 2009 and
    convertible into shares of the Company s common stock on a
     one-for-one 
    basis), and restricted stock units (convertible into shares of
    the Company s common stock on a
     one-for-one 
    basis) under the Amended and Restated 2007 Stock Incentive Plan,
    the U.S. Bancorp 2001 Stock Incentive Plan and the U.S. Bancorp
    1998 Executive Stock Incentive Plan. Excludes
    194,202 shares, with a weighted-average exercise price of
    $18.87, underlying outstanding stock options and warrants
    assumed by U.S. Bancorp in connection with acquisitions by
    U.S. Bancorp. Of the excluded shares, 22,431 underlie stock
    options granted under equity compensation plans of the former
    U.S. Bancorp that were approved by the shareholders of the
    former U.S. Bancorp.  

(3)   

Includes 2,513,904 shares of common stock issuable
    pursuant to various current and former deferred compensation
    plans of U.S. Bancorp and its predecessor entities. All of the
    remaining identified shares   

15

Table of Contents   

underlie stock options granted to a broad-based employee
    population pursuant to the U.S. Bancorp 2001 Employee Stock
    Incentive Plan ( 2001 Stock Plan ).  

(4)   

The weighted-average exercise price does not include any
    assumed price at issuance of shares that may be issuable
    pursuant to the deferred compensation plans.  

As of December 31, 2010, options to purchase an aggregate
    of 1,231,625 shares were outstanding under the 2001 Stock
    Plan. Under the 2001 Stock Plan, nonqualified stock options were
    granted to full-time or part-time employees actively employed by
    U.S. Bancorp on the grant date, other than individuals eligible
    to participate in any of the Company s executive stock
    incentive plans. All options outstanding under the plan were
    granted on February 27, 2001.

No further options will be granted under the 2001 Stock Plan.
    Under this plan the exercise price of the options equals the
    fair market value of the underlying common stock on the grant
    date. All options granted under the plan have a term of
    10 years from the grant date and become exercisable over a
    period of time set forth in the relevant plan or as determined
    by the committee administering the relevant plan. Options
    granted under the plan are nontransferable and, during the
    optionee s lifetime, are exercisable only by the optionee.

If an optionee is terminated as a result of his or her gross
    misconduct or offense, all options terminate immediately,
    whether or not vested. Under the 2001 Stock Plan in the event an
    optionee is terminated immediately following a
     change-in-control 
    (as defined in the plan) of U.S. Bancorp, and the termination is
    due to business needs resulting from the
     change-in-control 
    and not as a result of the optionee s performance or
    conduct, all of the optionee s outstanding options will
    become immediately vested and exercisable as of the date of
    termination.

If the outstanding shares of the Company s common stock are
    changed into or exchanged for a different number or kind of
    stock or other securities as a result of a reorganization,
    recapitalization, stock dividend, stock split, combination of
    shares, reclassification, merger, consolidation or similar
    event, the number of shares underlying outstanding options also
    may be adjusted. The plans may be terminated, amended or
    modified by the Board of Directors at any time.

The deferred compensation plans allow non-employee directors and
    members of the Company s senior management to defer all or
    part of their compensation until the earlier of retirement or
    termination of employment. The deferred compensation is deemed
    to be invested in one of several investment alternatives at the
    option of the participant, including shares of U.S. Bancorp
    common stock. Deferred compensation deemed to be invested in
    U.S. Bancorp stock may be received at the time of distribution
    at the election of the participant, in the form of shares of
    U.S. Bancorp common stock. The 2,513,904 shares included in
    the table assume that participants in the plans whose deferred
    compensation had been deemed to be invested in U.S. Bancorp
    common stock had elected to receive all of that deferred
    compensation in shares of U.S. Bancorp common stock on
    December 31, 2010. The U.S. Bank Executive Employee
    Deferred Compensation Plan (2005 Statement) and the U.S. Bank
    Outside Directors Deferred Compensation Plan (2005 Statement)
    are the Company s only deferred compensation plans under
    which compensation may currently be deferred.

Additional
    Information  

Additional information in response to this Item 12 can be
    found in the Company s Proxy Statement under the heading
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
    Management.  That information is incorporated into this
    report by reference.

Item 13.      

Certain
    Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director
    Independence   

Information in response to this Item 13 can be found in the
    Company s Proxy Statement under the headings  Director
    Independence  and  Certain Relationships and Related
    Transactions.  That information is incorporated into this
    report by reference.

16

Table of Contents   

Item 14.      

Principal
    Accounting Fees and Services   

Information in response to this Item 14 can be found in the
    Company s Proxy Statement under the headings  Fees to
    Independent Auditor  and  Administration of Engagement
    of Independent Auditor.  That information is incorporated
    into this report by reference.

PART IV  

Item 15.      

Exhibits,
    Financial Statement Schedules   

List of documents filed as part of this report

1.    

Financial
    Statements  

Report of Management

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the
    Consolidated Financial Statements

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on
    Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheet as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Income for each of
    the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Shareholders 
    Equity for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2010

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for each
    of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2010

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Balance Sheet   Five
    Year Summary (Unaudited)

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Statement of Income  
    Five Year Summary (Unaudited)

U.S. Bancorp Quarterly Consolidated Financial Data
    (Unaudited)

U.S. Bancorp Consolidated Daily Average Balance Sheet and
    Related Yields and Rates (Unaudited)

U.S. Bancorp Supplemental Financial Data (Unaudited)

2.    

Financial
    Statement Schedules  

All financial statement schedules for the Company have been
    included in the consolidated financial statements or the related
    footnotes, or are either inapplicable or not required.

17

Table of Contents   

Shareholders may obtain a copy of any of the exhibits to this
    report upon payment of a fee covering the Company s
    reasonable expenses in furnishing the exhibits. You can request
    exhibits by writing to Investor Relations, U.S. Bancorp,
    800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55402.

18

Table of Contents   

19

Table of Contents   

20

Table of Contents   

Exhibit 

Number 

Description 

32 

Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial
    Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. section 1350 as adopted
    pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

101 

Financial statements from the Annual Report on
     Form 10-K 
    of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2010,
    formatted in Extensible Business Reporting Language:
    (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheet, (ii) the
    Consolidated Statement of Income, (iii) the Consolidated
    Statement of Shareholders  Equity, (iv) the
    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows and (v) the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements

(1)  

Exhibit has been previously filed with the Securities and
    Exchange Commission and is incorporated herein as an exhibit by
    reference to the prior filing.  

(2)  

Management contracts or compensatory plans or
    arrangements.  

21

Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES  

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
    Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused
    this report to be signed on February 28, 2011, on its
    behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

U.S. BANCORP 

By 

/s/   Richard
    K. Davis 

Richard K. Davis

Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
    1934, this report has been signed below on February 28,
    2011, by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
    in the capacities indicated.

Signature and Title 

/s/   Richard
    K. Davis 

Richard
    K. Davis, 
    Chairman, President, and Chief Executive Officer 
    (principal executive officer)

/s/   Andrew
    Cecere 

Andrew
    Cecere, 
    Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer 
    (principal financial officer)

/s/   Craig
    E. Gifford 

Craig
    E. Gifford, 
    Executive Vice President and Controller 
    (principal accounting officer)

/s/   Douglas
    M. Baker, Jr.* 

Douglas
    M. Baker, Jr., Director

/s/   Y.
    Marc Belton* 

Y.
    Marc Belton, Director

/s/   Victoria
    Buyniski Gluckman* 

Victoria
    Buyniski Gluckman, Director

/s/   Arthur
    D. Collins* 

Arthur
    D. Collins, Jr., Director

/s/   Joel
    W. Johnson* 

Joel
    W. Johnson, Director

/s/   Olivia
    F. Kirtley* 

Olivia
    F. Kirtley, Director

22

Table of Contents   

Signature and Title 

/s/   Jerry
    W. Levin* 

Jerry
    W. Levin, Director

/s/   David
    B. O Maley* 

David
    B. O Maley, Director

/s/   O Dell
    M. Owens M.D., M.P.H. * 

O Dell
    M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H., Director

/s/   Richard
    G. Reiten* 

Richard
    G. Reiten, Director

/s/   Craig
    D. Schnuck* 

Craig
    D. Schnuck, Director

/s/   Patrick
    T. Stokes* 

Patrick
    T. Stokes, Director

*  

Lee R. Mitau, by signing his name hereto, does hereby sign
    this document on behalf of each of the above named directors of
    the registrant pursuant to powers of attorney duly executed by
    such persons.  

Dated: February 28, 2011

By: 

/s/   Lee
    R. Mitau 

Lee R. Mitau

Attorney-In-Fact 

Executive Vice President,

General Counsel and Corporate Secretary

23

<EX-10.11.L>
 2
 x59846exv10w11wl.htm
 EX-10.11.L

exv10w11wl 

Exhibit 10.11(l) 

TWELFTH AMENDMENT 
OF 
U.S. BANK NON-QUALIFIED RETIREMENT PLAN 

The U.S. Bank Non-Qualified Retirement Plan (the  Plan ) is amended as provided below.
This amendment is intended to clarify the Plan. The amendment below is not intended to make any
changes that would cause a violation of section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code or its
accompanying regulations. If a change in this amendment is determined to be a violation of section
409A, the amendment shall not be effective and shall be disregarded with respect to the rules
governing benefits under the Plan.

1. TERMINATION AND SEPARATION FROM SERVICE. Effective January 1, 2009, to the extent there is
ambiguity with respect to the payment of non-Grandfathered benefits under the Plan, if payment of
the benefits is subject to section 409A and is triggered upon a participant s termination of
employment then the term  termination  and phrase  termination of employment  shall be interpreted
as being contingent upon a participant s separation from service as defined under the Plan. 

2. NEW CASH BALANCE PLAN. Effective January 1, 2010, contingent upon receipt of a favorable
determination letter from the Internal Revenue Service, the Employer adopted Appendix I to the U.S.
Bank Pension Plan and that Appendix I contains a cash balance plan formula as an alternative to the
accrual of benefits under the final average pay formula contained in the U.S. Bank Pension Plan.
In general, participants in the U.S. Bank Pension Plan were given an opportunity to elect whether
(i) to accrue future benefits under the new cash balance formula, or (ii) to continue to accrue
benefits under the final average pay formula. With respect to a participant who elected or became
covered under the new cash balance formula, the participant s benefits under Article IV of the Plan
(the U.S. Bank Non-Qualified Retirement Plan) that accrue on and after that date the participant
became covered under the new cash balance formula shall be determined as an excess benefit using
the new cash balance benefit formula. With respect to a participant who elected or became covered
under the new cash balance formula, the participant s Projected Pension Plan Benefit under
Appendices A of this Plan that accrues on and after that date the participant became covered under
the new cash balance formula shall be determined using the
new cash balance benefit formula (past accruals
are determined under the formula in effect at the time
accrued). The projected interest credits for such a participant s benefits under Appendices A that
accrue on and after January 1, 2010 shall be determined by using an annual interest rate that is 3
percentage points greater than the rate at which Projected Compensation is deemed to increase.
Projected annual pay credits for such a participant shall be made
based on Projected Compensation under the
terms of the new cash balance formula
as they exist on the date as
of which the Projected Pension Plan
Benefit is determined. 

3. DOMESTIC RELATIONS ORDER. The Benefits Administration Committee has determined that the Plan
should be amended to permit division of vested benefits under the Plan for the Participant named in
Appendix B-11 under a
court-approved domestic relations order that is also approved by the plan administrator.
Therefore, by this amendment, effective as of January 1, 2010, the Plan is amended to permit
division of vested benefits under the Plan for the Participant named in Appendix B-11 under a
court-approved domestic relations order that is also approved by the plan administrator. 

4. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and except as expressly amended above, the Plan shall continue in full
force and effect. 

</EX-10.11.L>

<EX-10.13.C>
 3
 x59846exv10w13wc.htm
 EX-10.13.C

exv10w13wc 

Exhibit 10.13(c) 

SECOND AMENDMENT OF 
U.S. BANK EXECUTIVE EMPLOYEE DEFERRED COMPENSATION 
PLAN (2005 Statement) 

The U.S. Bank Executive Employee Deferred Compensation Plan (2005 Statement) (the  Plan )
is amended in the following respects:

1. DEFERRALS. Effective January 1, 2010, a new Section 3.3 shall be added to the Plan that reads
as follows: 

3.3  Suspension of Deferral . If a Participant obtains a hardship distribution from a
401(k) plan sponsored by the Company (or an entity under common control with the Company for
purposes of sections 414(b) and (c) of the Code), then as required under 26 C.F.R.  
1.401(k)-1(d)(3)(iv)(E)(2) and as permitted under 26 C.F.R.   1.409A-3(j)(4)(viii), the
Participant s contributions this Plan shall be suspended for the minimum period required under the
Code and accompanying regulations.

2. INTERNAL REVENUE CODE. Effective January 1, 2010, Section 10.9 shall be amended to add a new
sentence after the first sentence that reads in full as follows: 

Each provision shall be interpreted and administered in accordance with section 409A of the Code
and guidance provided thereunder.

3. SAVINGS CLAUSE. Save and except as expressly amended above, the Plan shall continue in full
force and effect. 

</EX-10.13.C>

<EX-12>
 4
 x59846exv12.htm
 EX-12

exv12 

EXHIBIT 12 

Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges 

* 
       
     Excludes interest expense related to unrecognized tax positions 

</EX-12>

<EX-13>
 5
 x59846exv13.htm
 EX-13

exv13 

Management s
    Discussion and Analysis

TABLE OF CONTENTS  

Management s Discussion and Analysis   
     OVERVIEW   
     STATEMENT OF INCOME ANALYSIS   
     BALANCE SHEET ANALYSIS   
     CORPORATE RISK PROFILE   
     LINE OF BUSINESS FINANCIAL REVIEW   
     CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES   
     CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES   

Table of Contents   

For the fiscal year ended December
    31, 2010 

OVERVIEW

The financial performance of U.S. Bancorp and its
    subsidiaries (the  Company ) in 2010 reflected the
    strength and quality of its business lines, prudent risk
    management and recent investments. In 2010, the Company achieved
    record total net revenue, increased its capital, experienced
    lower credit costs, and grew both its balance sheet and
    fee-based businesses. Though business and consumer customers
    continue to be affected by the tepid economic conditions and
    high unemployment levels in the United States, the
    Company s comparative financial strength and enhanced
    product offerings attracted a significant number of new customer
    relationships in 2010, resulting in loan growth and significant
    increases in deposits as the Company continues to benefit from a
     flight-to-quality  by customers. Additionally, in
    2010 the Company invested opportunistically in businesses and
    products that strengthened its presence and ability to serve
    customers. Weakness in domestic real estate markets, both
    residential and commercial, continued to affect the
    Company s loan portfolios, though the Company s credit
    costs have declined since late 2009.

Despite significant legislative and regulatory challenges, and
    an economic environment which continues to adversely impact the
    banking industry, the Company earned $3.3 billion in 2010,
    an increase of 50.4 percent over 2009. Growth in total net
    revenue of $1.5 billion (8.9 percent) was attributable
    to an increase in net interest income, the result of higher
    earning assets and expanded net interest margin. Noninterest
    income grew
     year-over-year 
    as increases in payments-related revenue and other fee-based
    businesses were partially offset by expected decreases from
    recent legislative actions and current economic conditions. The
    Company s total net charge-offs and nonperforming assets
    both peaked in the first quarter of 2010, and declined
    throughout the remainder of the year. Additionally, the Company
    continued its focus on effectively managing its cost structure
    while making investments to increase revenue, improve efficiency
    and enhance customer service, with an efficiency ratio (the
    ratio of noninterest expense to taxable-equivalent net revenue,
    excluding net securities gains and losses) in 2010 of
    51.5 percent, one of the lowest in the industry.

The Company s capital position remained strong and grew
    during 2010, with a Tier 1 (using Basel I definition)
    common equity to risk-weighted assets ratio of 7.8 percent
    and a Tier 1 capital ratio of 10.5 percent at
    December 31, 2010. In addition, at December 31, 2010,
    the Company s total risk-based capital ratio was
    13.3 percent, and its tangible common equity to
    risk-weighted assets ratio was 7.2 percent (refer to
     Non-Regulatory Capital Ratios  for further
    information on the calculation of the Tier 1 common equity
    to risk-weighted assets and tangible common equity to
    risk-weighted assets ratios). On January 7, 2011, the
    Company submitted its plan to the Federal Reserve System
    requesting regulatory approval to increase its dividend, and
    expects to receive feedback from the Federal Reserve System late
    in the first quarter of 2011. Credit rating organizations rate
    the Company s debt among the highest of its large domestic
    banking peers. This comparative financial strength provides the
    Company with favorable funding costs, and the ability to attract
    new customers, leading to growth in loans and deposits.

In 2010, the Company grew its loan portfolio and significantly
    increased deposits. Average loans and deposits increased
    $7.2 billion (3.9 percent) and $16.9 billion
    (10.1 percent), respectively, over 2009, including the
    impact of a Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
    ( FDIC ) assisted transaction in the fourth quarter of
    2009. Average loan growth reflected increases in residential
    mortgages, retail loans and commercial real estate loans, offset
    by a decline in commercial loans, the result of lower
    utilization of available commitments.

The Company s provision for credit losses decreased
    $1.2 billion (21.6 percent) in 2010, compared with
    2009. Real estate markets continue to experience stress, and the
    Company had 8 percent higher net charge-offs in 2010 than
    in 2009. However, net charge-offs began to decline in early 2010
    and the Company s net charge-offs in the fourth quarter of
    2010 were 16 percent lower than the fourth quarter of 2009.
    The Company recorded a provision in excess of net charge-offs of
    $200 million in the first six months of 2010, but improving
    credit trends and risk profile of the Company s loan
    portfolio resulted in the Company recording a provision that was
    less than net charge-offs by $25 million in the fourth
    quarter of 2010.

In January, 2011, U.S. federal banking regulators
    communicated to the Company the preliminary results of an
    interagency examination of the Company s policies,
    procedures, and internal controls related to residential
    mortgage foreclosure practices. This examination was part of a
    review by the regulators of the foreclosure practices of 14
    large mortgage servicers. As a result of the review, the Company
    expects the regulators will require the Company to address
    certain aspects of its foreclosure processes, including
    developing plans related to control procedures and monitoring of
    loss mitigation and foreclosure activities, and taking certain
    other remedial actions. Though the Company

18     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Table
    1       SELECTED
    FINANCIAL DATA

(a)

Presented
    on a fully taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax rate of
    35 percent.   

(b)

Computed
    as noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income
    on a taxable-equivalent basis and noninterest income excluding
    net securities gains (losses).   

(c)

See
    Non-Regulatory Capital Ratios on page 60.   

U.S. BANCORP   19 

Table of Contents   

believes its policies, procedures and internal controls related
    to foreclosure practices materially follow established
    safeguards and legal requirements, the Company intends to comply
    with the expected requirements of the regulators in all
    respects. The Company does not believe those requirements will
    materially affect its financial position, results of operations,
    or ability to conduct normal business activities. In addition,
    the Company expects monetary penalties may be assessed but does
    not know the amount of any such penalties.

The Company s financial strength, business model, credit
    culture and focus on efficiency have enabled it to deliver
    consistently profitable financial performance while operating in
    a very turbulent environment. Given the current economic
    environment, the Company will continue to focus on managing
    credit losses and operating costs, while also utilizing its
    financial strength to grow market share and profitability.
    Despite the expectation of significant impacts to the industry
    from recently enacted legislation, the Company believes it is
    well positioned for long-term growth in earnings per common
    share and an industry-leading return on common equity. The
    Company intends to achieve these financial objectives by
    providing high-quality customer service, ensuring regulatory
    compliance, continuing to carefully manage costs and, where
    appropriate, strategically investing in businesses that
    diversify and generate revenues, enhance the Company s
    distribution network and expand its product offerings.

Earnings Summary
       The Company reported net
    income attributable to U.S. Bancorp of $3.3 billion in
    2010, or $1.73 per diluted common share, compared with
    $2.2 billion, or $.97 per diluted common share, in 2009.
    Return on average assets and return on average common equity
    were 1.16 percent and 12.7 percent, respectively, in
    2010, compared with .82 percent and 8.2 percent,
    respectively, in 2009. Diluted earnings per common share for
    2010 included a non-recurring $.05 benefit related to an
    exchange of newly issued perpetual preferred stock for
    outstanding income trust securities ( ITS exchange ),
    net of related debt extinguishment costs. Also impacting 2010
    were $175 million of provision for credit losses in excess
    of net charge-offs, net securities losses of $78 million,
    and a $103 million gain ($41 million after tax)
    resulting from the exchange of the Company s long-term
    asset management business for an equity interest in Nuveen
    Investments and cash consideration ( Nuveen Gain ).
    The results for 2009 included $1.7 billion of provision for
    credit losses in excess of net charge-offs, net securities
    losses of $451 million, a $123 million FDIC special
    assessment, a $92 million gain from a corporate real estate
    transaction and a reduction to earnings per share from the
    recognition of $154 million of unaccreted preferred stock
    discount as a result of the redemption of preferred stock
    previously issued to the U.S. Department of the Treasury.

Total net revenue, on a taxable-equivalent basis, for 2010 was
    $1.5 billion (8.9 percent) higher than 2009,
    reflecting a 12.3 percent increase in net interest income
    and a 5.1 percent increase in total noninterest income. Net
    interest income increased in 2010 as a result of an increase in
    average earning assets and continued growth in low cost core
    deposit funding. Noninterest income increased principally due to
    higher payments-related and commercial products revenue and a
    decrease in net securities losses, partially offset by lower
    deposit service charges, trust and investment management fees
    and mortgage banking revenue.

Total noninterest expense in 2010 increased $1.1 billion
    (13.3 percent), compared with 2009, primarily due to the
    impact of acquisitions, higher total compensation and employee
    benefits expense and costs related to investments in affordable
    housing and other tax-advantaged projects, partially offset by
    lower FDIC deposit insurance expense due to the special
    assessment in 2009.

Acquisitions   
      In 2009, the Company
    acquired the banking operations of First Bank of Oak Park
    Corporation ( FBOP ) in an FDIC assisted transaction,
    and in 2008 the Company acquired the banking operations of
    Downey Savings and Loan Association, F.A. and PFF Bank and Trust
    ( Downey  and  PFF , respectively) in FDIC
    assisted transactions. Through these acquisitions, the Company
    increased its deposit base and branch franchise. In total, the
    Company acquired approximately $35 billion of assets in
    these acquisitions, most of which are covered under loss sharing
    agreements with the FDIC ( covered  assets). Under the
    terms of the loss sharing agreements, the FDIC will reimburse
    the Company for most of the losses on the covered assets.

In 2010, the Company acquired the securitization trust
    administration business of Bank of America, N.A. This
    transaction included the acquisition of $1.1 trillion of
    assets under administration and provided the Company with
    approximately $8 billion of deposits as of
    December 31, 2010.

In January 2011, the Company acquired the banking operations of
    First Community Bank of New Mexico ( FCB ) from the
    FDIC. The FCB transaction did not include a loss sharing
    agreement. The Company acquired 38 branch locations and
    approximately $2.1 billion in assets, assumed approximately
    $1.8 billion in liabilities, and received approximately
    $412 million in cash from the FDIC.

20     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Table
    2       ANALYSIS
    OF NET INTEREST INCOME (a)

(a)

Interest
    and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis
    utilizing a federal tax rate of 35 percent.   

(b)

Represents
    noninterest-bearing deposits, other noninterest-bearing
    liabilities and equity, allowance for loan losses and unrealized
    gain (loss) on
     available-for-sale 
    securities less non-earning assets.   

STATEMENT OF INCOME ANALYSIS

Net Interest
    Income    Net interest
    income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, was $9.8 billion in
    2010, compared with $8.7 billion in 2009 and
    $7.9 billion in 2008. The $1.1 billion
    (12.3 percent) increase in net interest income in 2010,
    compared with 2009, was primarily the result of continued growth
    in lower cost core deposit funding and increases in average
    earning assets. Average earning assets were $14.8 billion
    (6.2 percent) higher in 2010, compared with 2009, driven by
    increases in average loans and investment securities. Average
    deposits increased $16.9 billion (10.1 percent) in 2010,
    compared with 2009. The net interest margin in 2010 was
    3.88 percent, compared with 3.67 percent in 2009 and
    3.66 percent in 2008. The increase in net interest margin
    was principally due to the impact of favorable funding rates,
    the result of the increase in deposits and improved credit
    spreads. Refer to the  Interest Rate Risk Management 
    section for further information on the sensitivity of the
    Company s net interest income to changes in interest rates.

Average total loans were $193.0 billion in 2010, compared
    with $185.8 billion in 2009. The $7.2 billion
    (3.9 percent) increase was driven by growth in residential
    mortgages, retail loans, commercial real estate loans and
     acquisition-related 
    covered loans, partially offset by a $5.8 billion
    (11.0 percent) decline in commercial loans, which was
    principally the result of lower utilization of available
    commitments by customers. Residential mortgage growth of
    $3.2 billion (13.2 percent) reflected increased
    origination and refinancing activity throughout most of 2009 and
    the second half of 2010 as a result of market interest rate
    declines. Average retail loans increased $2.1 billion
    (3.3 percent)
     year-over-year, 
    driven by increases in credit card and installment (primarily
    automobile) loans. Average credit card balances for 2010 were
    $1.5 billion (9.8 percent) higher than 2009,
    reflecting growth in existing portfolios and portfolio purchases
    during 2009 and the second quarter of 2010. Growth in average
    commercial real estate balances of $518 million
    (1.5 percent) reflected the impact of new business
    activity, partially offset by customer debt deleveraging.
    Average covered loans were $19.9 billion in 2010, compared
    with $12.7 billion in 2009, reflecting the FBOP acquisition
    in the fourth quarter of 2009.

Average investment securities in 2010 were $5.0 billion
    (11.6 percent) higher than 2009, primarily due to purchases
    of U.S. government agency-backed securities and the
    consolidation of $.6 billion of
     held-to-maturity 
    securities held in a variable interest entity ( VIE )
    due to the adoption of new authoritative accounting guidance
    effective January 1, 2010.

Average total deposits for 2010 were $16.9 billion
    (10.1 percent) higher than 2009. Of this increase,

U.S. BANCORP   21 

Table of Contents   

Table
    3       NET
    INTEREST INCOME   CHANGES DUE TO RATE AND
    VOLUME (a)

(a)

This
    table shows the components of the change in net interest income
    by volume and rate on a taxable-equivalent basis utilizing a tax
    rate of 35 percent. This table does not take into account
    the level of noninterest-bearing funding, nor does it fully
    reflect changes in the mix of assets and liabilities. The change
    in interest not solely due to changes in volume or rates has
    been allocated on a pro-rata basis to volume and
    yield/rate.   

$12.0 billion related to deposits assumed in the FBOP
    acquisition. Excluding deposits from acquisitions, 2010 average
    total deposits increased $6.8 billion (4.1 percent) over
    2009. Average noninterest-bearing deposits in 2010 were
    $2.3 billion (6.1 percent) higher than 2009, primarily
    due to growth in Consumer and Small Business Banking and
    Wholesale Banking and Commercial Real Estate balances. Average
    total savings deposits were $19.0 billion
    (23.2 percent) higher in 2010, compared with 2009, due to
    an increase in savings account balances of $7.8 billion
    (59.5 percent) resulting from continued strong
    participation in a product offered by Consumer and Small
    Business Banking, higher money market savings balances of
    $7.9 billion (24.8 percent) from higher corporate
    trust and Consumer and Small Business Banking balances, and
    higher interest checking account balances of $3.3 billion
    (9.0 percent) resulting from increases in Consumer and
    Small Business Banking and institutional trust accounts. Average
    time certificates of deposit less than $100,000 were lower in
    2010 by $1.3 billion (7.0 percent), compared with
    2009, reflecting the net impact of balances assumed in the FBOP
    acquisition, more than offset by expected run-off of balances
    assumed in the PFF and Downey acquisitions and lower renewals
    given the current interest rate environment. Average time
    deposits greater than $100,000 were $3.1 billion
    (10.3 percent) lower in 2010, compared with 2009,
    reflecting the net impact of acquisitions, more than offset by a
    decrease in required overall wholesale funding. Time deposits
    greater than $100,000 are managed as an alternative to other
    funding sources, such as wholesale borrowing, based largely on
    relative pricing.

The $.8 billion (10.8 percent) increase in net
    interest income in 2009, compared with 2008, was attributable to
    growth in average earning assets and lower cost core deposit

22     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

funding. The $22.2 billion (10.3 percent) increase in
    average earning assets in 2009 over 2008 was principally a
    result of growth in total average loans, including originated
    and acquired loans, and loans held for sale.

Average total loans increased $20.3 billion
    (12.2 percent) in 2009, compared with 2008, driven by new
    loan originations, acquisitions and portfolio purchases. Average
    covered loans increased $11.4 billion, due to the timing of
    the Downey, PFF and FBOP acquisitions. Average retail loans
    increased $6.5 billion (11.6 percent), driven by
    increases in credit card, home equity and student loans,
    reflecting both growth in existing portfolios and portfolio
    purchases during 2009.

Average investment securities in 2009 were essentially unchanged
    from 2008, as security purchases offset maturities and sales. In
    2009, the composition of the Company s investment portfolio
    shifted to a larger proportion in U.S. Treasury, agency and
    agency mortgage-backed securities, compared with 2008.

Average noninterest-bearing deposits in 2009 were
    $9.1 billion (31.7 percent) higher than 2008. The
    increase reflected higher business demand deposit balances,
    partially offset by lower trust demand deposits. Average total
    savings products increased $18.4 billion
    (29.0 percent) in 2009, compared with 2008, principally as
    a result of a $7.2 billion increase in savings accounts
    from higher Consumer and Small Business Banking balances, a
    $5.7 billion (18.4 percent) increase in interest
    checking balances from higher government and consumer banking
    customer balances and acquisitions, and a $5.5 billion
    (20.9 percent) increase in money market savings balances
    from higher broker-dealer, corporate trust and institutional
    trust customer balances and acquisitions. Average time
    certificates of deposit less than $100,000 increased
    $4.3 billion (31.6 percent) primarily due to
    acquisitions. Average time deposits greater than $100,000
    decreased $.2 billion (.7 percent) in 2009, compared
    with 2008.

Provision for
    Credit Losses    The
    provision for credit losses reflects changes in the credit
    quality of the entire portfolio of loans, and is maintained at a
    level considered appropriate by management for probable and
    estimable incurred losses, based on factors discussed in the
     Analysis and Determination of Allowance for Credit
    Losses  section.

In 2010, the provision for credit losses was $4.4 billion,
    compared with $5.6 billion and $3.1 billion in 2009
    and 2008, respectively. The provision for credit losses exceeded
    net charge-offs by $175 million in 2010, $1.7 billion
    in 2009 and $1.3 billion in 2008. The $1.2 billion
    decrease in provision for credit losses in 2010, compared with
    2009, reflected improving credit trends and the underlying risk
    profile of the loan portfolio as economic conditions continued
    to stabilize. Accruing loans ninety days or more past due
    decreased by $431 million (excluding covered loans) from
    December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, reflecting a
    moderation in the level of stress in economic conditions during
    2010. Delinquencies in most major loan categories began to
    decrease in the third quarter of 2010. Nonperforming assets
    decreased $553 million (excluding covered assets) from
    December 31, 2009 to December 31, 2010, principally in
    the construction and land development portfolios, as the Company
    continued to resolve and reduce exposure to these assets.
    However, net charge-offs increased $313 million
    (8.1 percent) over 2009, as borrowers still impacted by
    weak economic conditions and real estate markets defaulted on
    loans.

The $2.5 billion increase in the provision for credit
    losses in 2009, compared with 2008 and the increase in the
    allowance for credit losses from December 31, 2008 to
    December 31, 2009 reflected deterioration in economic
    conditions during most of 2009 and the corresponding impact on
    the commercial, commercial real estate and consumer loan
    portfolios. It also reflected stress in the residential real
    estate markets. Nonperforming assets increased $1.9 billion
    (excluding covered assets) from December 31, 2008 to
    December 31, 2009. The increase was driven primarily by
    stress in residential home construction and related industries,
    deterioration in the residential mortgage portfolio, as well as
    an increase in foreclosed properties and the impact of the
    economic slowdown on commercial and consumer customers. Net
    charge-offs increased $2.1 billion in 2009, compared with
    2008, primarily due to economic factors affecting the
    residential housing markets, including homebuilding and related
    industries, commercial real estate properties, and credit card
    and other consumer and commercial loans, as the economy weakened
    and unemployment increased during the period.

Refer to  Corporate Risk Profile  for further
    information on the provision for credit losses, net charge-offs,
    nonperforming assets and other factors considered by the Company
    in assessing the credit quality of the loan portfolio and
    establishing the allowance for credit losses.

Noninterest
    Income    Noninterest
    income in 2010 was $8.4 billion, compared with
    $8.0 billion in 2009 and $6.8 billion in 2008. The
    $408 million (5.1 percent) increase in 2010 over 2009,
    was due to higher payments-related revenues of 6.3 percent,
    principally due to increased

U.S. BANCORP   23 

Table of Contents   

Table
    4       NONINTEREST
    INCOME

*

Not
    meaningful   

transaction volumes and business expansion; an increase in
    commercial products revenue of 25.4 percent, attributable
    to higher standby letters of credit fees, commercial loan and
    syndication fees and other capital markets revenue; a decrease
    in net securities losses of 82.7 percent, primarily due to
    lower impairments in the current year; and an increase in other
    income. The increase in other income of 8.8 percent,
    reflected the Nuveen Gain, higher 2010 gains related to the
    Company s investment in Visa Inc. and higher retail lease
    residual valuation income, partially offset by the
    $92 million gain on a corporate real estate transaction in
    2009, a payments-related contract termination gain that occurred
    in 2009 and lower customer derivative revenue. Mortgage banking
    revenue decreased 3.1 percent, principally due to lower
    origination and sales revenue and an unfavorable net change in
    the valuation of mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs )
    and related economic hedging activities, partially offset by
    higher servicing income. Deposit service charges decreased
    26.8 percent as a result of Company-initiated and
    regulatory revisions to overdraft fee policies, partially offset
    by core account growth. Trust and investment management fees
    declined 7.5 percent because low interest rates negatively
    impacted money market investment fees and money market fund
    balances declined as a result of customers migrating balances
    from money market funds to deposits.

The $1.2 billion (16.8 percent) increase in
    noninterest income in 2009 over 2008 was principally due to a
    $765 million increase in mortgage banking revenue, the
    result of strong mortgage loan production, as the Company gained
    market share and low interest rates drove refinancing, and an
    increase in the valuation of MSRs net of related economic
    hedging instruments. Other increases in noninterest income
    included higher ATM processing services of 12.0 percent,
    related to growth in transaction volumes and business expansion,
    higher treasury management fees of 6.8 percent, resulting
    from increased new business activity and pricing, and a
    25.0 percent increase in commercial products revenue due to
    higher letters of credit, capital markets and other commercial
    loan fees. Net securities losses in 2009 were 53.9 percent
    lower than 2008. Other income decreased 9.3 percent due to
    higher gains in 2008 related to the Company s ownership
    position in Visa Inc., partially offset by the gain from a
    corporate real estate transaction and the payments-related
    contract termination gain. Deposit service charges decreased
    10.3 percent primarily due to a decrease in the number of
    transaction-related fees, which more than offset account growth.
    Trust and investment management fees declined 11.1 percent,
    reflecting lower assets under management account volume and the
    impact of low interest rates on money market investment fees.
    Investment product fees and commissions declined
    25.9 percent due to lower sales levels in 2009, compared
    with 2008.

The Company expects recently enacted legislation will have a
    negative impact on noninterest income, principally related to
    debit interchange fee revenue, in future years.

Noninterest
    Expense    Noninterest
    expense in 2010 was $9.4 billion, compared with
    $8.3 billion in 2009 and $7.3 billion in 2008. The
    Company s efficiency ratio was 51.5 percent in 2010,
    compared with 48.4 percent in 2009. The $1.1 billion
    (13.3 percent) increase in noninterest expense in 2010 over
    2009 was principally due to acquisitions, increased total
    compensation and employee benefits expense and higher costs
    related to investments in affordable housing and other
    tax-advantaged projects. Total

24     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Table
    5       NONINTEREST
    EXPENSE

(a)

Computed
    as noninterest expense divided by the sum of net interest income
    on a taxable-equivalent basis and noninterest income excluding
    securities gains (losses), net.   

compensation and employee benefits expense increased
    20.6 percent, reflecting acquisitions, branch expansion and
    other initiatives, the elimination of a five percent cost
    reduction program that was in effect during 2009, higher
    incentive compensation costs related to the Company s
    improved financial results, merit increases, and increased
    pension costs associated with previous declines in the value of
    pension assets. Net occupancy and equipment expense and
    professional services expense increased 9.9 percent and
    20.0 percent, respectively, principally due to acquisitions
    and other business initiatives. Technology and communications
    expense increased 10.5 percent as a result of business
    initiatives and volume increases across various business lines.
    Postage, printing and supplies expense increased
    4.5 percent, principally due to payments-related business
    initiatives. Other expense increased 9.0 percent,
    reflecting higher costs related to investments in affordable
    housing and other tax-advantaged projects, which reduce the
    Company s income tax expense, and higher other real estate
    owned ( OREO ) costs, partially offset by the
    $123 million FDIC special assessment in 2009. Marketing and
    business development expense decreased 4.8 percent, largely
    due to payments-related initiatives during 2009. Other
    intangibles expense decreased 5.2 percent due to the
    declining level or completion of scheduled amortization of
    certain intangibles.

The $933 million (12.7 percent) increase in
    noninterest expense in 2009, compared with 2008, was principally
    due to the impact of acquisitions, higher ongoing FDIC deposit
    insurance expense and the $123 million special assessment
    in 2009, costs related to affordable housing and other
    tax-advantaged investments, and marketing and business
    development expense. Compensation expense increased
    3.2 percent primarily due to acquisitions, partially offset
    by reductions from cost containment efforts. Employee benefits
    expense increased 11.5 percent primarily due to increased
    pension costs associated with previous declines in the value of
    pension assets. Net occupancy and equipment expense, and
    professional services expense increased 7.0 percent and
    6.3 percent, respectively, primarily due to acquisitions,
    as well as branch-based and other business expansion
    initiatives. Marketing and business development expense
    increased 21.9 percent, principally due to costs related to
    the introduction of new credit card products and advertising
    related to the Company s national branding strategy, while
    technology and business communications expense increased
    12.5 percent, primarily due to business expansion
    initiatives. Other intangibles expense increased
    9.0 percent due to acquisitions. Other expense increased
    44.3 percent due to higher FDIC deposit insurance expense,
    including the $123 million special assessment in 2009.
    Other expense also reflected increased costs related to
    investments in affordable housing and other tax-advantaged
    projects, higher merchant processing expenses, growth in
    mortgage servicing expenses and costs associated with OREO.

The Company expects recently enacted legislation will increase
    deposit insurance expense in future years.

Pension Plans
       Because of the long-term
    nature of pension plans, the related accounting is complex and
    can be impacted by several factors, including investment funding
    policies, accounting methods, and actuarial assumptions.

The Company s pension accounting reflects the long-term
    nature of the benefit obligations and the investment horizon of
    plan assets. Amounts recorded in the financial statements
    reflect actuarial assumptions about participant benefits and
    plan asset returns. Changes in actuarial assumptions, and
    differences in actual plan experience compared with actuarial
    assumptions, are deferred and recognized in expense in future
    periods. Differences related to participant benefits are

U.S. BANCORP   25 

Table of Contents   

Table
    6       LOAN
    PORTFOLIO DISTRIBUTION

recognized over the future service period of the employees.
    Differences related to the expected return on plan assets are
    included in expense over an approximately twelve-year period.

The Company expects pension expense to increase
    $111 million in 2011, primarily driven by a
    $34 million increase related to utilizing a lower discount
    rate, a $29 million increase related to the amortization of
    unrecognized actuarial losses from prior years, a
    $6 million increase related to lower expected returns on
    plan assets and a $42 million increase related to amortization
    of other actuarial losses, including changes in assumptions
    based on actuarial review of past experience and compensation
    levels. If performance of plan assets equals the
    actuarially-assumed long-term rate of return
    ( LTROR ), the cumulative asset return difference of
    $255 million at December 31, 2010 will incrementally
    increase pension expense $34 million in 2012 and
    $47 million in 2013, and incrementally decrease pension
    expense $18 million in 2014 and $5 million in 2015.
    Because of the complexity of forecasting pension plan
    activities, the accounting methods utilized for pension plans,
    the Company s ability to respond to factors affecting the
    plans and the hypothetical nature of actuarial assumptions,
    actual pension expense will differ from these amounts.

Refer to Note 17 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further information on the Company s pension
    plan funding practices, investment policies and asset allocation
    strategies, and accounting policies for pension plans.

26     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Table
    7       COMMERCIAL
    LOANS BY INDUSTRY GROUP AND GEOGRAPHY, EXCLUDING COVERED LOANS

The following table shows an analysis of hypothetical changes in
    the LTROR and discount rate:

Income Tax
    Expense    The provision
    for income taxes was $935 million (an effective rate of
    22.3 percent) in 2010, compared with $395 million (an
    effective rate of 15.0 percent) in 2009 and
    $1.1 billion (an effective rate of 26.5 percent) in
    2008. The increase in the effective tax rate over 2009 primarily
    reflected the marginal impact of higher pre-tax earnings
     year-over-year 
    and the 2010 Nuveen Gain.

For further information on income taxes, refer to Note 19
    of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

BALANCE
    SHEET ANALYSIS

Average earning assets were $252.0 billion in 2010,
    compared with $237.3 billion in 2009. The increase in
    average earning assets of $14.7 billion (6.2 percent)
    was due to growth in total average loans of $7.2 billion
    (3.9 percent) and investment securities of
    $5.0 billion (11.6 percent).

For average balance information, refer to Consolidated Daily
    Average Balance Sheet and Related Yields and Rates on pages 128
    and 129.

U.S. BANCORP   27 

Table of Contents   

Table
    8       COMMERCIAL
    REAL ESTATE BY PROPERTY TYPE AND GEOGRAPHY, EXCLUDING COVERED
    LOANS

Loans
       The Company s loan
    portfolio was $197.1 billion at December 31, 2010, an
    increase of $2.3 billion (1.2 percent) from
    December 31, 2009. The increase was driven by growth in
    residential mortgages of $4.7 billion (17.9 percent),
    retail loans of $1.2 billion (1.9 percent) and
    commercial real estate loans of $.6 billion
    (1.8 percent), partially offset by decreases in commercial
    loans of $.4 billion (.8 percent) and
     acquisition-related 
    covered loans of $3.8 billion (17.5 percent). Table 6
    provides a summary of the loan distribution by product type,
    while Table 10 provides a summary of the selected loan maturity
    distribution by loan category. Average total loans increased
    $7.2 billion (3.9 percent) in 2010, compared with
    2009. The increase was due to growth in most major loan
    categories in 2010.

Commercial
       Commercial loans,
    including lease financing, decreased $394 million
    (.8 percent) as of December 31, 2010, compared with
    December 31, 2009. Average commercial loans decreased
    $5.8 billion (11.0 percent) in 2010, compared with
    2009. These decreases were primarily due to lower utilization by
    customers of available commitments, partially offset by new loan
    commitments. Table 7 provides a summary of commercial loans by
    industry and geographical locations.

Commercial Real
    Estate    The
    Company s portfolio of commercial real estate loans, which
    includes commercial mortgages and construction loans, increased
    $602 million (1.8 percent) at December 31, 2010,
    compared with December 31, 2009. Average commercial real
    estate loans increased $518 million (1.5 percent) in
    2010, compared with 2009. The growth principally reflected the
    impact of new business activity, partially offset by customer
    debt deleveraging. Table 8 provides a summary of commercial real
    estate by property type and geographical location. The
    collateral for $4.5 billion of commercial real estate loans

28     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Table
    9       RESIDENTIAL
    MORTGAGES AND RETAIL LOANS BY GEOGRAPHY, EXCLUDING COVERED LOANS

included in covered loans at December 31, 2010 was in
    California, compared with $4.7 billion at December 31,
    2009.

The Company classifies loans as construction until the
    completion of the construction phase. Following construction, if
    a loan is retained, the loan is reclassified to the commercial
    mortgage category. In 2010, approximately $995 million of
    construction loans were reclassified to the commercial mortgage
    loan category for bridge financing after completion of the
    construction phase. At December 31, 2010, $270 million
    of tax-exempt industrial development loans were secured by real
    estate. The Company s commercial real estate mortgages and
    construction loans had unfunded commitments of $6.5 billion
    and $6.1 billion at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively.

The Company also finances the operations of real estate
    developers and other entities with operations related to real
    estate. These loans are not secured directly by real estate and
    are subject to terms and conditions similar to commercial loans.
    These loans were included in the commercial loan category and
    totaled $1.7 billion at December 31, 2010.

Residential
    Mortgages     Residential
    mortgages held in the loan portfolio at December 31, 2010,
    increased $4.7 billion (17.9 percent) over
    December 31, 2009. Average residential mortgages increased
    $3.2 billion (13.2 percent) in 2010, compared with
    2009. The growth reflected increased origination and refinancing
    activity in the second half of 2010 as a result of the low
    interest rate environment. Most

U.S. BANCORP   29 

Table of Contents   

Table
    10       SELECTED
    LOAN MATURITY DISTRIBUTION

loans retained in the portfolio are to customers with prime or
    near-prime credit characteristics at the date of origination.

Retail
       Total retail loans
    outstanding, which include credit card, retail leasing, home
    equity and second mortgages and other retail loans, increased
    $1.2 billion (1.9 percent) at December 31, 2010,
    compared with December 31, 2009. The increase was primarily
    driven by higher installment (primarily automobile) and
    federally-guaranteed student loans, partially offset by lower
    credit card and home equity balances. Average retail loans
    increased $2.1 billion (3.3 percent) in 2010, compared
    with 2009, as a result of current year growth and credit card
    portfolio purchases in 2009 and 2010.

Of the total retail loans and residential mortgages outstanding,
    excluding covered assets, at December 31, 2010,
    approximately 73.6 percent were to customers located in the
    Company s primary banking region. Table 9 provides a
    geographic summary of residential mortgages and retail loans
    outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. The
    collateral for $5.2 billion of residential mortgages and
    retail loans included in covered loans at December 31, 2010
    was in California, compared with $6.6 billion at
    December 31, 2009.

Loans Held for
    Sale     Loans held for
    sale, consisting primarily of residential mortgages to be sold
    in the secondary market, were $8.4 billion at
    December 31, 2010, compared with $4.8 billion at
    December 31, 2009. The increase in loans held for sale was
    principally due to a higher level of mortgage loan origination
    and refinancing activity in the second half of 2010.

Investment
    Securities     The Company
    uses its investment securities portfolio for several purposes.
    The portfolio serves as a vehicle to manage enterprise interest
    rate risk, provides liquidity, including the ability to meet
    proposed regulatory requirements, generates interest and
    dividend income from the investment of excess funds depending on
    loan demand and is used as collateral for public deposits and
    wholesale funding sources. While the Company intends to hold its
    investment securities indefinitely, it may sell
    available-for-sale securities in response to structural changes
    in the balance sheet and related interest rate risk and to meet
    liquidity requirements, among other factors.

At December 31, 2010, investment securities totaled
    $53.0 billion, compared with $44.8 billion at
    December 31, 2009. The $8.2 billion
    (18.3 percent) increase reflected $7.3 billion of net
    investment purchases, the consolidation of $.6 billion of
     held-to-maturity 
    securities held in a VIE due to the adoption of new
    authoritative accounting guidance effective January 1,
    2010, and a $.3 billion favorable change in net unrealized
    gains (losses) on
     available-for-sale 
    securities.

Average investment securities were $47.8 billion in 2010,
    compared with $42.8 billion in 2009. The weighted-average
    yield of the
     available-for-sale 
    portfolio was 3.41 percent at December 31, 2010,
    compared with 4.00 percent at December 31, 2009. The
    average maturity of the
     available-for-sale 
    portfolio was 7.4 years at December 31, 2010, compared
    with 7.1 years at December 31, 2009. Investment
    securities by type are shown in Table 11.

The Company conducts a regular assessment of its investment
    portfolio to determine whether any securities are
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired. At December 31, 2010, the Company s net
    unrealized loss on
     available-for-sale 
    securities was $346 million, compared with
    $635 million at December 31, 2009. The favorable
    change in net unrealized gains (losses) was primarily due to
    increases in the fair value of agency and certain non-agency
    mortgage-backed securities, partially offset by decreases in the
    fair value of obligations of state and political subdivisions
    securities as a result of market interest rate increases near
    the end of 2010. Unrealized losses on
     available-for-sale 
    securities in an unrealized loss position totaled
    $1.2 billion at December 31, 2010, compared with
    $1.3 billion at December 31, 2009. When assessing
    unrealized losses for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment, the Company considers the nature of the investment,
    the financial condition of the issuer, the extent and duration
    of unrealized loss,

30     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Table
    11       INVESTMENT
    SECURITIES

(a)

Information
    related to asset and mortgage-backed securities included above
    is presented based upon weighted-average maturities anticipating
    future prepayments.   

(b)

Information
    related to obligations of state and political subdivisions is
    presented based upon yield to first optional call date if the
    security is purchased at a premium, yield to maturity if
    purchased at par or a discount.   

(c)

Maturity
    calculations for obligations of state and political subdivisions
    are based on the first optional call date for securities with a
    fair value above par and contractual maturity for securities
    with a fair value equal to or below par.   

(d)

The
    weighted-average maturity of the
     available-for-sale 
    investment securities was 7.1 years at December 31,
    2009, with a corresponding weighted-average yield of
    4.00 percent. The weighted-average maturity of the
     held-to-maturity 
    investment securities was 8.4 years at December 31,
    2009, with a corresponding weighted-average yield of
    5.10 percent.   

(e)

Average
    yields are presented on a fully-taxable equivalent basis under a
    tax rate of 35 percent. Yields on
     available-for-sale 
    and
     held-to-maturity 
    securities are computed based on historical cost balances.
    Average yield and maturity calculations exclude equity
    securities that have no stated yield or maturity.   

U.S. BANCORP   31 

Table of Contents   

Table
    12       DEPOSITS

The composition of deposits was as follows:

The maturity of time deposits was as follows:

expected cash flows of underlying collateral or assets and
    market conditions. At December 31, 2010, the Company had no
    plans to sell securities with unrealized losses and believes it
    is more likely than not it would not be required to sell such
    securities before recovery of their amortized cost.

There is limited market activity for structured
    investment-related and non-agency mortgage-backed securities
    held by the Company. As a result, the Company estimates the fair
    value of these securities using estimates of expected cash
    flows, discount rates and management s assessment of
    various other market factors, which are judgmental in nature.
    The Company recorded $91 million of impairment charges in
    earnings during 2010, predominately on non-agency
    mortgage-backed and structured investment-related securities.
    These impairment charges were due to changes in expected cash
    flows resulting from increases in defaults in the underlying
    mortgage pools and regulatory actions in the first quarter of
    2010 related to an insurer of some of the securities. Further
    adverse changes in market conditions may result in additional
    impairment charges in future periods.

During 2009, the Company recognized impairment charges in
    earnings of $223 million related to perpetual preferred
    securities, primarily issued by financial institutions, and
    $363 million on non-agency mortgage-backed and structured
    investment-related securities.

Refer to Notes 5 and 21 in the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements for further information on investment
    securities.

Deposits
       Total deposits were
    $204.3 billion at December 31, 2010, compared with
    $183.2 billion at December 31, 2009. The
    $21.0 billion (11.5 percent) increase in total
    deposits reflected organic growth in core deposits and balances
    from the securitization trust administration acquisition in the
    fourth quarter of 2010. Average total deposits increased
    $16.9 billion (10.1 percent) over 2009, reflecting
    increases in noninterest-bearing and

32     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

savings account balances, partially offset by a decrease in
    interest-bearing time deposits.

Noninterest-bearing deposits at December 31, 2010,
    increased $7.1 billion (18.7 percent) over
    December 31, 2009. Average noninterest-bearing deposits
    increased $2.3 billion (6.1 percent) in 2010, compared
    with 2009. The increase was due primarily to growth in Wholesale
    Banking and Commercial Real Estate, Consumer and Small Business
    Banking and corporate trust balances.

Interest-bearing savings deposits increased $18.1 billion
    (18.9 percent) at December 31, 2010, compared with
    December 31, 2009. Excluding acquisitions,
     interest-bearing 
    savings deposits increased $11.8 billion (12.3 percent) at
    December 31, 2010, compared with December 31, 2009. The increase
    in these deposit balances was related to increases in all major
    savings deposit categories. The $7.4 billion
    (43.7 percent) increase in savings account balances
    reflected growth in Consumer and Small Business Banking
    balances. The $6.0 billion (14.7 percent) increase in
    money market savings account balances principally reflected
    acquisition-related growth in corporate trust balances. The
    $4.7 billion (12.4 percent) increase in interest
    checking account balances was due primarily to higher
    broker-dealer balances. Average interest-bearing savings
    deposits in 2010 increased $19.0 billion
    (23.2 percent), compared with 2009, driven by higher money
    market savings account balances of $7.9 billion
    (24.8 percent), savings account balances of
    $7.8 billion (59.5 percent) and interest checking
    account balances of $3.3 billion (9.0 percent).

Interest-bearing time deposits at December 31, 2010,
    decreased $4.2 billion (8.7 percent), compared with
    December 31, 2009, driven by decreases in both time
    certificates of deposit less than $100,000 and time deposits
    greater than $100,000. Excluding the trust administration
    acquisition, interest-bearing time deposits decreased
    $6.1 billion (12.4 percent) at December 31, 2010,
    compared with December 31, 2009. Time certificates of deposit
    less than $100,000 decreased $3.9 billion
    (20.5 percent) at December 31, 2010, compared with
    December 31, 2009, as a result of expected decreases in
    acquired certificates of deposit and decreases in Consumer and
    Small Business Banking balances. Average time certificates of
    deposit less than $100,000 in 2010 decreased $1.3 billion
    (7.0 percent), compared with 2009, reflecting maturities
    and lower renewals given the current interest rate environment.
    Time deposits greater than $100,000 decreased $364 million
    (1.2 percent) at December 31, 2010, compared with
    December 31, 2009. Average time deposits greater than
    $100,000 in 2010 decreased $3.1 billion
    (10.3 percent), compared with 2009. Time deposits greater
    than $100,000 are managed as an alternative to other funding
    sources, such as wholesale borrowing, based largely on relative
    pricing.

During 2010, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer
    Protection Act was signed into law, resulting in a permanent
    increase in the statutory standard maximum deposit insurance
    amount for domestic deposits to $250,000 per depositor. Domestic
    time deposits greater than $250,000 were $5.4 billion at
    December 31, 2010, compared with $7.1 billion at
    December 31, 2009.

Borrowings
       The Company utilizes
    both short-term and long-term borrowings as part of its
    asset/liability management and funding strategies. Short-term
    borrowings, which include federal funds purchased, commercial
    paper, repurchase agreements, borrowings secured by high-grade
    assets and other short-term borrowings, were $32.6 billion
    at December 31, 2010, compared with $31.3 billion at
    December 31, 2009. The $1.3 billion (4.0 percent)
    increase in short-term borrowings reflected wholesale funding
    associated with the Company s asset growth and
    asset/liability management activities.

Long-term debt was $31.5 billion at December 31, 2010,
    compared with $32.6 billion at December 31, 2009,
    reflecting a $2.6 billion net decrease in Federal Home Loan
    Bank advances, $5.7 billion of medium-term note maturities
    and repayments and the extinguishment of $.6 billion of
    junior subordinated debentures in connection with the ITS
    exchange, partially offset by $5.7 billion of medium-term
    note and subordinated debt issuances and the consolidation of
    $2.3 billion of long-term debt related to certain VIEs at
    December 31, 2010. Refer to Note 13 of the Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information
    regarding long-term debt and the  Liquidity Risk
    Management  section for discussion of liquidity management
    of the Company.

CORPORATE
    RISK PROFILE

Overview
       Managing risks is an
    essential part of successfully operating a financial services
    company. The most prominent risk exposures are credit, residual
    value, operational, interest rate, market and liquidity risk.
    Credit risk is the risk of not collecting the interest
     and/or  the
    principal balance of a loan, investment or derivative contract
    when it is due. Residual value risk is the potential reduction
    in the
     end-of-term 
    value of leased assets. Operational risk includes risks related
    to fraud, legal and compliance, processing errors, technology,
    breaches of internal controls and business continuation and
    disaster recovery. Interest rate risk is the potential reduction

U.S. BANCORP   33 

Table of Contents   

of net interest income as a result of changes in interest rates,
    which can affect the re-pricing of assets and liabilities
    differently. Market risk arises from fluctuations in interest
    rates, foreign exchange rates, and security prices that may
    result in changes in the values of financial instruments, such
    as trading and
     available-for-sale 
    securities and derivatives that are accounted for on a fair
    value basis. Liquidity risk is the possible inability to fund
    obligations to depositors, investors or borrowers. In addition,
    corporate strategic decisions, as well as the risks described
    above, could give rise to reputation risk. Reputation risk is
    the risk that negative publicity or press, whether true or not,
    could result in costly litigation or cause a decline in the
    Company s stock value, customer base, funding sources or
    revenue.

Credit Risk
    Management    The
    Company s strategy for credit risk management includes
    well-defined, centralized credit policies, uniform underwriting
    criteria, and ongoing risk monitoring and review processes for
    all commercial and consumer credit exposures. The strategy also
    emphasizes diversification on a geographic, industry and
    customer level, regular credit examinations and management
    reviews of loans exhibiting deterioration of credit quality. The
    credit risk management strategy also includes a credit risk
    assessment process, independent of business line managers, that
    performs assessments of compliance with commercial and consumer
    credit policies, risk ratings, and other critical credit
    information. The Company strives to identify potential problem
    loans early, record any necessary charge-offs promptly and
    maintain appropriate reserve levels for probable incurred loan
    losses. Commercial banking operations rely on prudent credit
    policies and procedures and individual lender and business line
    manager accountability. Lenders are assigned lending authority
    based on their level of experience and customer service
    requirements. Credit officers reporting to an independent credit
    administration function have higher levels of lending authority
    and support the business units in their credit decision process.
    Loan decisions are documented with respect to the
    borrower s business, purpose of the loan, evaluation of the
    repayment source and the associated risks, evaluation of
    collateral, covenants and monitoring requirements, and risk
    rating rationale. The Company classifies commercial loans by
    credit quality ratings that it defines, including: pass, special
    mention and classified, and utilizes a credit risk rating system
    to measure the credit quality of individual commercial loans.
    This risk rating system includes estimates about the likelihood
    of default by borrowers and the severity of loss in the event of
    default. The Company uses the risk rating system for on-going
    management of the portfolio, regulatory reporting, determining
    the frequency of review of the credit exposures, and evaluation
    and determination of the specific allowance for commercial
    credit losses. The Company regularly forecasts potential changes
    in risk ratings, nonperforming status and potential for loss and
    the estimated impact on the allowance for credit losses. The
    Company classifies loans by the same credit quality ratings in
    its retail banking operations, primarily driven by delinquency
    status. In addition, standard credit scoring systems are used to
    assess credit risks of consumer, small business and small-ticket
    leasing customers and to price products accordingly. The Company
    conducts the underwriting and collections of its retail products
    in loan underwriting and servicing centers specializing in
    certain retail products. Forecasts of delinquency levels,
    bankruptcies and losses in conjunction with projection of
    estimated losses by delinquency categories and vintage
    information are regularly prepared and are used to evaluate
    underwriting and collection and determine the specific allowance
    for credit losses for these products. Because business processes
    and credit risks associated with unfunded credit commitments are
    essentially the same as for loans, the Company utilizes similar
    processes to estimate its liability for unfunded credit
    commitments. The Company also engages in non-lending activities
    that may give rise to credit risk, including interest rate swap
    and option contracts for balance sheet hedging purposes, foreign
    exchange transactions, deposit overdrafts and interest rate swap
    contracts for customers, and settlement risk, including
    Automated Clearing House transactions, and the processing of
    credit card transactions for merchants. These activities are
    also subject to credit review, analysis and approval processes.

Economic and
    Other Factors     In
    evaluating its credit risk, the Company considers changes, if
    any, in underwriting activities, the loan portfolio composition
    (including product mix and geographic, industry or
    customer-specific concentrations), trends in loan performance,
    the level of allowance coverage relative to similar banking
    institutions and macroeconomic factors, such as changes in
    unemployment rates, gross domestic product and consumer
    bankruptcy filings.

Beginning in late 2007, financial markets suffered significant
    disruptions, leading to and exacerbated by declining real estate
    values and subsequent economic challenges, both domestically and
    globally. Median home prices, which peaked in 2006, declined
    across most domestic markets with severe price reductions in
    California and some parts of the Southwest, Northeast and
    Southeast regions.

34     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

The decline in residential home values has had a significant
    adverse impact on residential mortgage loans. Residential
    mortgage delinquencies, which increased dramatically in 2007 for
     sub-prime 
    borrowers, also increased throughout 2008 and 2009 for other
    classes of borrowers. High unemployment levels throughout 2009
    and 2010 further increased losses in prime-based residential
    portfolios and credit cards.

Economic conditions began to stabilize in late 2009 and
    throughout 2010, though unemployment and under-employment
    continue to be elevated, consumer confidence and spending remain
    lower, and many borrowers continue to have difficulty meeting
    their commitments. Credit costs peaked for the Company in late
    2009 and trended downward thereafter, but remain at elevated
    levels. The Company recorded provision for credit losses in
    excess of net charge-offs during 2010, 2009 and 2008 of
    $175 million, $1.7 billion and $1.3 billion,
    respectively, as the result of these economic and environmental
    factors. The decrease in the provision for credit losses in
    excess of net charge-offs for 2010, compared with 2009,
    reflected the stabilization of economic conditions throughout
    2010 and the improving underlying risk profile of the loan
    portfolio.

Credit
    Diversification     The
    Company manages its credit risk, in part, through
    diversification of its loan portfolio and limit setting by
    product type criteria and concentrations. As part of its normal
    business activities, the Company offers a broad array of
    traditional commercial lending products and specialized products
    such as asset-based lending, commercial lease financing,
    agricultural credit, warehouse mortgage lending, commercial real
    estate, health care and correspondent banking. The Company also
    offers an array of retail lending products, including
    residential mortgages, credit cards, retail leases, home equity,
    revolving credit, lending to students and other consumer loans.
    These retail credit products are primarily offered through the
    branch office network, home mortgage and loan production
    offices, indirect distribution channels, such as automobile
    dealers, and a consumer finance division. The Company monitors
    and manages the portfolio diversification by industry, customer
    and geography. Table 6 provides information with respect to the
    overall product diversification and changes in the mix during
    2010.

The commercial portfolio reflects the Company s focus on
    serving small business customers, middle market and larger
    corporate businesses throughout its Consumer and Small Business
    Banking markets, as well as large national customers. The
    commercial loan portfolio is diversified among various
    industries with somewhat higher concentrations in consumer
    products and services, financial services, healthcare,
    commercial services and supplies, capital goods (including
    manufacturing and commercial construction-related businesses),
    property management and development and agricultural industries.
    Additionally, the commercial portfolio is diversified across the
    Company s geographical markets with 69.2 percent of
    total commercial loans, excluding covered loans, within the
    Company s Consumer and Small Business Banking markets.
    Credit relationships outside of the Company s Consumer and
    Small Business Banking markets are reflected within the
    corporate banking, mortgage banking, auto dealer and leasing
    businesses focusing on large national customers and specifically
    targeted industries. Loans to mortgage banking customers are
    primarily warehouse lines which are collateralized with the
    underlying mortgages. The Company regularly monitors its
    mortgage collateral position to manage its risk exposure. Table
    7 provides a summary of significant industry groups and
    geographical locations of commercial loans outstanding at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009.

The commercial real estate portfolio reflects the Company s
    focus on serving business owners within its geographic footprint
    as well as regional and national investment-based real estate
    owners and builders. At December 31, 2010, the Company had
    commercial real estate loans of $34.7 billion, or
    17.6 percent of total loans, compared with
    $34.1 billion at December 31, 2009. Within commercial
    real estate loans, different property types have varying degrees
    of credit risk. Table 8 provides a summary of the significant
    property types and geographical locations of commercial real
    estate loans outstanding at December 31, 2010 and 2009. At
    December 31, 2010, approximately 32.9 percent of the
    commercial real estate loan portfolio represented business
    owner-occupied properties that tend to exhibit credit risk
    characteristics similar to the middle market commercial loan
    portfolio. Generally, the investment-based real estate mortgages
    are diversified among various property types with somewhat
    higher concentrations in office and retail properties. During
    2010, the Company continued to reduce its level of exposure to
    homebuilders, given the stress in the homebuilding industry
    sector. From a geographical perspective, the Company s
    commercial real estate portfolio is generally well diversified.
    However, at December 31, 2010, 21.6 percent of the
    Company s commercial real estate portfolio, excluding
    covered assets, was secured by collateral in California, which
    has experienced higher delinquency levels and credit quality
    deterioration due to excess home inventory levels and declining
    valuations. During 2010, the Company recorded $845 million
    of net charge-offs in the total commercial real estate
    portfolio. Included in commercial real

U.S. BANCORP   35 

Table of Contents   

estate at year-end 2010 was approximately $1.2 billion in
    loans related to land held for development and $1.8 billion
    of loans related to residential and commercial acquisition and
    development properties. These loans are subject to quarterly
    monitoring for changes in local market conditions due to a
    higher credit risk profile. The commercial real estate portfolio
    is diversified across the Company s geographical markets
    with 86.4 percent of total commercial real estate loans
    outstanding at December 31, 2010, within the Company s
    Consumer and Small Business Banking markets.

The assets acquired from the FDIC assisted acquisitions of
    Downey, PFF and FBOP included nonperforming loans and other
    loans with characteristics indicative of a high credit risk
    profile, including a substantial concentration in California,
    loans with
     negative-amortization 
    payment options, and homebuilder and other construction finance
    loans. Because most of these loans are covered under loss
    sharing agreements with the FDIC, the Company s financial
    exposure to losses from these assets is substantially reduced.
    To the extent actual losses exceed the Company s estimates
    at acquisition, the Company s financial risk would only be
    its share of those losses under the loss sharing agreements.

The Company s retail lending business utilizes several
    distinct business processes and channels to originate retail
    credit, including traditional branch lending, indirect lending,
    portfolio acquisitions and a consumer finance division. Each
    distinct underwriting and origination activity manages unique
    credit risk characteristics and prices its loan production
    commensurate with the differing risk profiles. Within Consumer
    and Small Business Banking, the consumer finance division
    specializes in serving channel-specific and alternative lending
    markets in residential mortgages, home equity and installment
    loan financing. The consumer finance division manages loans
    originated through a broker network, correspondent relationships
    and U.S. Bank branch offices. Generally, loans managed by
    the Company s consumer finance division exhibit higher
    credit risk characteristics, but are priced commensurate with
    the differing risk profile.

Residential mortgages represent an important financial product
    for consumer customers of the Company and are originated through
    the Company s branches, loan production offices, a
    wholesale network of originators and the consumer finance
    division. With respect to residential mortgages originated
    through these channels, the Company may either retain the loans
    on its balance sheet or sell its interest in the balances into
    the secondary market while retaining the servicing rights and
    customer relationships. Utilizing the secondary markets enables
    the Company to effectively reduce its credit and other
    asset/liability risks. For residential mortgages that are
    retained in the Company s portfolio and for home equity and
    second mortgages, credit risk is also diversified by geography
    and managed by adherence to
     loan-to-value 
    and borrower credit criteria during the underwriting process.

The following tables provide summary information of the
     loan-to-values 
    of residential mortgages and home equity and second mortgages by
    distribution channel and type at December 31, 2010
    (excluding covered loans):

Note:
    loan-to-values determined as of the date of origination and
    adjusted for cumulative principal payments, and consider
    mortgage insurance, as applicable.  

36     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

(a)

Consumer
    finance category includes credit originated and managed by the
    consumer finance division, as well as the majority of home
    equity and second mortgages with a
     loan-to-value 
    greater than 100 percent that were originated in the
    branches.   

Note:
    Loan-to-values determined using the original appraisal value of
    collateral and the current amortized loan balance, or maximum of
    current commitment or current balance on lines.  

Within the consumer finance division at December 31, 2010,
    approximately $2.1 billion of residential mortgages were to
    customers that may be defined as
     sub-prime 
    borrowers based on credit scores from independent credit rating
    agencies at loan origination, compared with $2.5 billion at
    December 31, 2009.

The following table provides further information on the
     loan-to-values 
    of residential mortgages specifically for the consumer finance
    division at December 31, 2010:

In addition to residential mortgages, at December 31, 2010,
    the consumer finance division had $.5 billion of home
    equity and second mortgage loans to customers that may be
    defined as
     sub-prime 
    borrowers, compared with $.6 billion at December 31,
    2009.

The following table provides further information on the
     loan-to-values 
    of home equity and second mortgages specifically for the
    consumer finance division at December 31, 2010:

The total amount of residential mortgage, home equity and second
    mortgage loans, other than covered loans, to customers that may
    be defined as
     sub-prime 
    borrowers represented only .9 percent of total assets at
    December 31, 2010, compared with 1.1 percent at
    December 31, 2009. Covered loans include $1.6 billion
    in loans with
     negative-amortization 
    payment options at December 31, 2010, compared with
    $2.2 billion at December 31, 2009. Other than covered
    loans, the Company does not have any residential mortgages with
    payment schedules that would cause balances to increase over
    time.

The retail loan portfolio principally reflects the
    Company s focus on consumers within its geographical
    footprint of branches and certain niche lending activities that
    are nationally focused. Within the Company s retail loan
    portfolio, approximately 76.0 percent of the credit card
    balances relate to cards originated through the bank branches or
    co-branded and affinity programs that generally experience
    better credit quality performance than portfolios generated
    through other channels.

Table 9 provides a geographical summary of the residential
    mortgage and retail loan portfolios.

Loan
    Delinquencies     Trends
    in delinquency ratios are an indicator, among other
    considerations, of credit risk within the Company s loan
    portfolios. The entire balance of an account is considered
    delinquent if the minimum payment contractually required to be
    made is not received by the specified date on the billing
    statement. The Company

U.S. BANCORP   37 

Table of Contents   

Table 13
           DELINQUENT
    LOAN RATIOS AS A PERCENT OF ENDING LOAN BALANCES

measures delinquencies, both including and excluding
    nonperforming loans, to enable comparability with other
    companies. Delinquent loans purchased from Government National
    Mortgage Association ( GNMA ) mortgage pools, for
    which repayments of principal and interest are insured by the
    Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by the Department
    of Veterans Affairs, are excluded from delinquency statistics.
    In addition, in certain situations, a retail customer s
    account may be re-aged to remove it from delinquent status.
    Generally, the purpose of re-aging accounts is to assist
    customers who have recently overcome temporary financial
    difficulties, and have demonstrated both the ability and
    willingness to resume regular payments. To qualify for re-aging,
    the account must have been open for at least nine months and
    cannot have been re-aged during the preceding 365 days. An
    account may not be re-aged more than two times in a five-year
    period. To qualify for re-aging, the customer must also have
    made three regular minimum monthly payments within the last
    90 days. In addition, the Company may re-age the retail
    account of a customer who has experienced longer-term financial
    difficulties and apply modified, concessionary terms and
    conditions to the account. Such additional re-ages are limited
    to one in a five-year period and must meet the qualifications
    for re-aging described above. All re-aging strategies must be
    independently approved by the Company s credit
    administration function. Commercial loans are not subject to
    re-aging policies.

Accruing loans 90 days or more past due totaled
    $2.2 billion ($1.1 billion excluding covered loans) at
    December 31, 2010, compared with $2.3 billion
    ($1.5 billion excluding covered loans) at December 31,
    2009, and $1.6 billion ($967 million excluding covered
    loans) at December 31, 2008. The $431 million
    (28.3 percent) decrease, excluding covered loans, reflected
    a moderation in the level of stress in economic conditions
    during 2010. These loans are not included in nonperforming
    assets and continue to accrue interest because they are
    adequately secured by collateral, are in the process of
    collection and are reasonably expected to result in repayment or
    restoration to current status, or are managed in homogeneous
    portfolios with specified charge-off

38     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

timeframes adhering to regulatory guidelines. The ratio of
    accruing loans 90 days or more past due to total loans was
    1.11 percent (.61 percent excluding covered loans) at
    December 31, 2010, compared with 1.19 percent
    (.88 percent excluding covered loans) at December 31,
    2009, and .84 percent (.56 percent excluding covered
    loans) at December 31, 2008.

The following table provides summary delinquency information for
    residential mortgages and retail loans, excluding covered loans:

The following table provides information on delinquent and
    nonperforming loans, excluding covered loans, as a percent of
    ending loan balances, by channel:

(a)

Consumer
    finance category includes credit originated and managed by the
    consumer finance division, as well as the majority of home
    equity and second mortgages with a
     loan-to-value 
    greater than 100 percent that were originated in the
    branches.   

Within the consumer finance division at December 31, 2010,
    approximately $412 million and $75 million of these
    delinquent and nonperforming residential mortgages and other
    retail loans, respectively, were to customers that may be
    defined as
     sub-prime 
    borrowers, compared with $557 million and $98 million,
    respectively at December 31, 2009.

U.S. BANCORP   39 

Table of Contents   

The following table provides summary delinquency information for
    covered loans:

Restructured
    Loans     In certain
    circumstances, the Company may modify the terms of a loan to
    maximize the collection of amounts due when a borrower is
    experiencing financial difficulties or is expected to experience
    difficulties in the near-term. In most cases the modification is
    either a concessionary reduction in interest rate, extension of
    the maturity date or reduction in the principal balance that
    would otherwise not be considered. Concessionary modifications
    are classified as troubled debt restructurings
    ( TDRs ) unless the modification is short-term, or
    results in only an insignificant delay or shortfall in the
    payments to be received. TDRs accrue interest if the borrower
    complies with the revised terms and conditions and has
    demonstrated repayment performance at a level commensurate with
    the modified terms over several payment cycles.

Short-Term
    Modifications     The
    Company makes short-term modifications to assist borrowers
    experiencing temporary hardships. Consumer programs include
    short-term interest rate reductions (three months or less for
    residential mortgages and twelve months or less for credit
    cards), deferrals of up to three past due payments, and the
    ability to return to current status if the borrower makes
    required payments during the short-term modification period. At
    December 31, 2010, loans modified under these programs,
    excluding loans purchased from GNMA mortgage pools whose
    repayments are insured by the Federal Housing Administration or
    guaranteed by the Department of Veterans Affairs, represented
    less than 1.0 percent of total residential mortgage loan
    balances and 1.9 percent of credit card receivable
    balances. Because these changes have an insignificant impact on
    the economic return on the loan, the Company does not consider
    loans modified under these hardship programs to be TDRs. The
    Company determines applicable allowances for loan losses for
    these loans in a manner consistent with other homogeneous loan
    portfolios.

The Company may also modify commercial loans on a short-term
    basis, with the most common modification being an extension of
    the maturity date of twelve months or less. Such extensions
    generally are used when the maturity date is imminent and the
    borrower is experiencing some level of financial stress but the
    Company believes the borrower will ultimately pay all
    contractual amounts owed. These extended loans represented
    approximately 1.1 percent of total commercial and
    commercial real estate loan balances at December 31, 2010.
    Because interest is charged during the extension period (at the
    original contractual rate or, in many cases, a higher rate), the
    extension has an insignificant impact on the economic return on
    the loan. Therefore, the Company does not consider such
    extensions to be TDRs. The Company determines the applicable
    allowance for loan losses on these loans in a manner consistent
    with other commercial loans.

Troubled Debt
    Restructurings     Many
    of the Company s TDRs are determined on a
     case-by-case 
    basis in connection with ongoing loan collection processes.
    However, the Company has also implemented certain restructuring
    programs that may result in TDRs. The consumer finance division
    has a mortgage loan restructuring program where certain
    qualifying borrowers facing an interest rate reset who are
    current in their repayment status, are allowed to retain the
    lower of their existing interest rate or the market interest
    rate as of their interest reset date. The Company also
    participates in the U.S. Department of the Treasury Home
    Affordable Modification Program ( HAMP ). HAMP gives
    qualifying homeowners an opportunity to refinance into more
    affordable monthly payments, with the U.S. Department of
    the Treasury compensating the Company for a portion of the
    reduction in monthly amounts due from borrowers participating in
    this program. Both the consumer finance division modification
    program and the HAMP program require the customer to complete a
    trial period, where the loan modification is contingent on the
    customer satisfactorily completing the trial period and the loan
    documents are not modified until that time. The Company reports
    loans that are modified following the satisfactory completion of
    the trial period as TDRs. Loans in the pre-modification trial
    phase represented less than 1.0 percent of residential
    mortgage loan balances at December 31, 2010.

In addition, the Company has also modified certain mortgage
    loans according to provisions in FDIC-assisted transaction loss
    sharing agreements. Losses associated with modifications on
    these loans, including the economic impact of interest rate
    reductions, are generally eligible for reimbursement under the
    loss sharing agreements.

Acquired loans restructured after acquisition are not considered
    TDRs for purposes of the Company s accounting and
    disclosure if the loans evidenced credit deterioration as of the
    acquisition date and are accounted for in pools.

40     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

The following table provides a summary of TDRs by loan type,
    including the delinquency status for TDRs that continue to
    accrue interest and TDRs included in nonperforming assets
    (excluding covered loans):

(a)

Excludes
    loans purchased from GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are
    insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by
    the Department of Veterans Affairs, and loans in the trial
    period under HAMP or the Company s program where a legal
    modification of the loan is contingent on the customer
    successfully completing the trial modification period.   

(b)

Primarily
    represents loans less than six months from the modification date
    that have not met the performance period required to return to
    accrual status (generally six months) and, for commercial, small
    business credit cards with a modified rate equal to
    0 percent.   

(c)

Represents
    consumer credit cards with a modified rate equal to
    0 percent.   

The following table provides a summary of TDRs, excluding
    covered loans, that are performing in accordance with the
    modified terms, and therefore continue to accrue interest:

(a)

Excludes
    loans purchased from GNMA mortgage pools whose repayments are
    insured by the Federal Housing Administration or guaranteed by
    the Department of Veterans Affairs, and loans in the trial
    period under HAMP or the Company s program where a legal
    modification of the loan is contingent on the customer
    successfully completing the trial modification period.   

TDRs, excluding covered loans, that are performing in accordance
    with modified terms were $413 million higher at
    December 31, 2010, than at December 31, 2009,
    primarily reflecting loan modifications for certain residential
    mortgage and consumer credit card customers in light of current
    economic conditions. The Company continues to work with
    customers to modify loans for borrowers who are having financial
    difficulties, including those acquired through FDIC-assisted
    bank acquisitions, but expects the overall level of loan
    modifications to moderate during the first quarter of 2011.

Nonperforming
    Assets     The level of
    nonperforming assets represents another indicator of the
    potential for future credit losses. Nonperforming assets include
    nonaccrual loans, restructured loans not performing in
    accordance with modified terms, other real estate and other
    nonperforming assets owned by the Company. Interest payments
    collected from assets on nonaccrual status are typically applied
    against the principal balance and not recorded as income.

At December 31, 2010, total nonperforming assets were
    $5.0 billion, compared with $5.9 billion at
    December 31, 2009 and $2.6 billion at
    December 31, 2008. Excluding covered assets, nonperforming
    assets were $3.4 billion at December 31, 2010,
    compared with $3.9 billion at December 31, 2009 and
    $2.0 billion at December 31, 2008. The
    $553 million (14.2 percent) decrease in nonperforming
    assets, excluding covered assets, from December 31, 2009 to
    December 31, 2010, was principally in the construction and
    land development portfolios, as the Company continued to resolve
    and reduce the exposure to these assets. There was also an
    improvement in other commercial portfolios, reflecting the
    stabilizing economy. However, stress continued  in the
    residential mortgage portfolio and foreclosed properties
    increased due to the overall duration of the economic slowdown.
    Nonperforming covered assets at December 31, 2010 were
    $1.7 billion, compared with $2.0 billion at
    December 31, 2009 and $643 million at
    December 31, 2008. These assets are covered by loss sharing
    agreements with the FDIC that substantially reduce the risk of
    credit losses to the Company. In addition, the majority of the
    nonperforming covered assets were considered credit-impaired at
    acquisition and recorded at their estimated fair value at
    acquisition. The ratio of total nonperforming assets to total
    loans and other real estate was 2.55 percent
    (1.87 percent excluding covered assets) at
    December 31, 2010, compared with 3.02 percent
    (2.25 percent excluding covered assets) at
    December 31, 2009 and 1.42 percent (1.14 percent
    excluding covered assets) at December 31, 2008.

U.S. BANCORP   41 

Table of Contents   

Table
    14       NONPERFORMING
    ASSETS(a)

Changes
    in Nonperforming Assets  

(a)

Throughout
    this document, nonperforming assets and related ratios do not
    include accruing loans 90 days or more past due.   

(b)

Excludes
    $575 million, $359 million, $209 million,
    $102 million and $83 million at December 31,
    2010, 2009, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, of foreclosed
    GNMA loans which continue to accrue interest.   

(c)

Includes
    equity investments in entities whose only assets are other real
    estate owned.   

(d)

Charge-offs
    exclude actions for certain card products and loan sales that
    were not classified as nonperforming at the time the charge-off
    occurred.   

(e)

Residential
    mortgage information excludes changes related to residential
    mortgages serviced by others.   

42     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Table
    15       NET
    CHARGE-OFFS AS A PERCENT OF AVERAGE LOANS OUTSTANDING

(a)

Net
    charge-offs as a percent of average loans outstanding, excluding
    portfolio purchases where the acquired loans were recorded at
    fair value at the purchase date, were 7.99 percent and
    7.14 percent for the years ended December 31, 2010 and
    2009, respectively.   

The Company expects nonperforming assets, excluding covered
    assets and assets acquired in the January 2011 FCB transaction,
    to trend lower in the first quarter of 2011.

Other real estate, excluding covered assets, was
    $511 million at December 31, 2010, compared with
    $437 million at December 31, 2009, and was primarily
    related to foreclosed properties that previously secured loan
    balances. The increase in other real estate assets reflected
    continuing stress in residential construction and related
    supplier industries.

The following table provides an analysis of OREO, excluding
    covered assets, as a percent of their related loan balances,
    including geographical location detail for residential
    (residential mortgage, home equity and second mortgage) and
    commercial (commercial and commercial real estate) loan balances:

U.S. BANCORP   43 

Table of Contents   

Analysis of
    Loan Net Charge-Offs
        Total loan net
    charge-offs were $4.2 billion in 2010, compared with
    $3.9 billion in 2009 and $1.8 billion in 2008. The
    ratio of total loan net charge-offs to average loans was
    2.17 percent in 2010, compared with 2.08 percent in
    2009 and 1.10 percent in 2008. The increase in total net
    charge-offs in 2010, compared with 2009, and the increase in
    2009, compared with 2008, was driven by the weakening economy
    and rising unemployment affecting the residential housing
    markets, including homebuilding and related industries,
    commercial real estate properties and credit card and other
    consumer and commercial loans. Total net charge-offs peaked for
    the Company in the first quarter of 2010 and have since trended
    lower as the economy has begun to stabilize. The Company expects
    the level of net charge-offs to continue to trend lower in the
    first quarter of 2011.

Commercial and commercial real estate loan net charge-offs for
    2010 were $1.7 billion (2.06 percent of average loans
    outstanding), compared with $1.5 billion (1.78 percent
    of average loans outstanding) in 2009 and $514 million
    (.60 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2008. The
    increase in net charge-offs in 2010, compared with 2009 and the
    increase in 2009, compared with 2008, reflected the weakening
    economy and rising unemployment throughout most of 2009,
    affecting the residential housing markets, including
    homebuilding and related industries, commercial real estate
    properties and other commercial loans.

Residential mortgage loan net charge-offs for 2010 were
    $546 million (1.97 percent of average loans
    outstanding), compared with $489 million (2.00 percent
    of average loans outstanding) in 2009 and $234 million
    (1.01 percent of average loans outstanding) in 2008. Retail
    loan net charge-offs for 2010 were $1.9 billion
    (3.03 percent of average loans outstanding), compared with
    $1.8 billion (2.95 percent of average loans
    outstanding) in 2009 and $1.1 billion (1.92 percent of
    average loans outstanding) in 2008. The retail loan net
    charge-offs percentage was impacted by credit card portfolio
    purchases recorded at fair value beginning in the second quarter
    of 2009. The increases in residential mortgage and retail loan
    net charge-offs in 2010, compared with 2009 and the increases in
    2009, compared with 2008, reflected the adverse impact of
    economic conditions on consumers, as higher unemployment levels
    increased losses in the prime-based residential mortgage and
    credit card portfolios.

The following table provides an analysis of net charge-offs as a
    percent of average loans outstanding managed by the consumer
    finance division, compared with other retail loans:

(a)

Consumer
    finance category included credit originated and managed by the
    consumer finance division, as well as the majority of home
    equity and second mortgages with a
     loan-to-value 
    greater than 100 percent that were originated in the
    branches.   

The following table provides further information on net
    charge-offs as a percent of average loans outstanding for the
    consumer finance division:

Analysis and
    Determination of the Allowance for Credit Losses
        The allowance for
    credit losses reserves for probable and estimable losses
    incurred in the Company s loan and lease portfolio, and
    includes certain amounts that do not represent loss exposure to
    the Company because those losses are recoverable under loss
    sharing agreements with the FDIC. Management evaluates the
    allowance each quarter to ensure it appropriately reserves for
    incurred losses. The evaluation of each element and the overall
    allowance is based on a continuing assessment of problem loans,
    recent loss experience and other factors, including regulatory
    guidance and economic conditions. Because business processes and
    credit risks associated with unfunded credit

44     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

commitments are essentially the same as for loans, the Company
    utilizes similar processes to estimate its liability for
    unfunded credit commitments, which is included in other
    liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Both the
    allowance for loan losses and the liability for unfunded credit
    commitments are included in the Company s analysis of
    credit losses and reported reserve ratios.

At December 31, 2010, the allowance for credit losses was
    $5.5 billion (2.81 percent of total loans and
    3.03 percent of loans excluding covered loans), compared
    with an allowance of $5.3 billion (2.70 percent of
    total loans and 3.04 percent of loans excluding covered
    loans) at December 31, 2009, and $3.6 billion
    (1.97 percent of total loans and 2.09 percent of loans
    excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2008. During 2010,
    the Company increased the allowance for credit losses by
    $92 million to reflect covered loan losses reimbursable by
    the FDIC. The ratio of the allowance for credit losses to
    nonperforming loans was 136 percent (192 percent
    excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2010, compared
    with 110 percent (153 percent excluding covered loans)
    at December 31, 2009 and 170 percent (206 percent
    excluding covered loans) at December 31, 2008. The ratio of
    the allowance for credit losses to annual loan net charge-offs
    at December 31, 2010, was 132 percent, compared with
    136 percent and 200 percent at December 31, 2009
    and 2008, respectively. Management determined the allowance for
    credit losses was appropriate at December 31, 2010.

Several factors were taken into consideration in evaluating the
    allowance for credit losses at December 31, 2010, including
    the risk profile of the portfolios, loan net charge-offs during
    the period, the level of nonperforming assets, accruing loans
    90 days or more past due, delinquency ratios and changes in
    TDR loan balances. Management also considered the uncertainty
    related to certain industry sectors, and the extent of credit
    exposure to specific borrowers within the portfolio. In
    addition, concentration risks associated with commercial real
    estate and the mix of loans, including credit cards, loans
    originated through the consumer finance division and residential
    mortgage balances, and their relative credit risks, were
    evaluated. Finally, the Company considered current economic
    conditions that might impact the portfolio. Management
    determines the allowance that is required for specific loan
    categories based on relative risk characteristics of the loan
    portfolio. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates its methods
    for determining the allowance for each element of the portfolio
    and makes enhancements considered appropriate. Table 17 shows
    the amount of the allowance for credit losses by portfolio
    category.

Regardless of the extent of the Company s analysis of
    customer performance, portfolio trends or risk management
    processes, certain incurred but undetected losses are probable
    within the loan portfolios. This is due to several factors,
    including inherent delays in obtaining information regarding a
    customer s financial condition or changes in its unique
    business conditions, the judgmental nature of individual loan
    evaluations, collateral assessments and the interpretation of
    economic trends. Volatility of economic or customer-specific
    conditions affecting the identification and estimation of losses
    from larger non-homogeneous credits and the sensitivity of
    assumptions utilized to establish allowances for homogeneous
    groups of loans, loan portfolio concentrations, and additional
    subjective considerations are among other factors. Because of
    these subjective factors, the process utilized to determine each
    element of the allowance for credit losses by specific loan
    category has some imprecision. As a result, the Company
    estimates a range of incurred losses in the portfolio based on
    statistical analyses and management judgment. A statistical
    analysis attempts to measure the extent of imprecision and other
    uncertainty by determining the volatility of losses over time,
    across loan categories. Also, management judgmentally considers
    loan concentrations, risks associated with specific industries,
    the stage of the business cycle, economic conditions and other
    qualitative factors. Beginning in 2007, the Company assigned
    this element of the allowance to each portfolio type to better
    reflect the Company s risk in the specific portfolios. In
    years prior to 2007, this element of the allowance was
    separately categorized as  available for other
    factors .

The allowance recorded for commercial and commercial real estate
    loans is based, in part, on a regular review of individual
    credit relationships. The Company s risk rating process is
    an integral component of the methodology utilized to determine
    these elements of the allowance for credit losses. An allowance
    for credit losses is established for pools of commercial and
    commercial real estate loans and unfunded commitments based on
    the risk ratings assigned. An analysis of the migration of
    commercial and commercial real estate loans and actual loss
    experience is conducted quarterly to assess the exposure for
    credits with similar risk characteristics. In addition to its
    risk rating process, the Company separately analyzes the
    carrying value of impaired loans to determine whether the
    carrying value is less than or equal to the appraised collateral
    value or the present value of expected cash flows. Based on this
    analysis, an allowance for credit losses may be specifically
    established for impaired loans. The allowance established for
    commercial and commercial real estate loan portfolios, including
    impaired commercial and commercial real estate 

U.S. BANCORP   45 

Table of Contents   

Table
    16       SUMMARY
    OF ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES

Note:
    At December 31, 2010, $2.2 billion of the total
    allowance for credit losses related to incurred losses on retail
    loans.  

(a)

Relates
    to covered loan charge-offs and recoveries not reimbursable by
    the FDIC.   

46     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Table 17
           ELEMENTS
    OF THE ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES

loans, was $2.4 billion at December 31, 2010, compared
    with $2.2 billion at December 31, 2009, and
    $1.4 billion at December 31, 2008. The increase in the
    allowance for commercial and commercial real estate loans of
    $186 million at December 31, 2010, compared with
    December 31, 2009, reflected continuing stress in
    commercial real estate and residential housing, especially
    residential homebuilding and related industry sectors, along
    with the impact of the current economic conditions on the
    commercial loan portfolios.

The allowance recorded for the residential mortgages and retail
    loan portfolios is based on an analysis of product mix, credit
    scoring and risk composition of the portfolio, loss and
    bankruptcy experiences, economic conditions and historical and
    expected delinquency and charge-off statistics for each
    homogenous group of loans. Based on this information and
    analysis, an allowance was established approximating a
    twelve-month estimate of net charge-offs. For homogenous loans
    modified under a TDR, an allowance was established for any
    impairment to the recorded investment in the loan. The allowance
    established for residential mortgages was $820 million at
    December 31, 2010, compared with $672 million and
    $524 million at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. The increase in the allowance for the residential
    mortgage portfolio in 2010 reflected continued stress in the
    portfolio, due to continued declining valuations in the
    underlying properties securing those loans. The allowance
    established for retail loans was $2.2 billion at
    December 31, 2010, compared with $2.4 billion and
    $1.6 billion at December 31, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. The decrease in the allowance for the retail
    portfolio in 2010 reflected a moderation in the level of stress
    in economic conditions throughout 2010.

The evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit
    losses for purchased non-impaired loans acquired on or after
    January 1, 2009 considers credit discounts recorded as a
    part of the initial determination of the fair value of the
    loans. For these loans, no allowance for credit losses is
    recorded at the purchase date. Credit discounts representing the
    principal losses expected over the life of the loans are a
    component of the initial fair value. Subsequent to the purchase
    date, the methods utilized to estimate the required allowance
    for credit losses for these loans is similar to originated
    loans; however, the Company records a provision for credit
    losses only when the required allowance, net of any expected
    reimbursement under any loss sharing agreements with the FDIC,
    exceeds any remaining credit discounts.

The evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for credit
    losses for purchased impaired loans considers the expected cash
    flows to be collected from the borrower. These loans are
    initially recorded at fair value and therefore no allowance for
    credit losses is recorded at the purchase date. Subsequent to
    the purchase date, the expected cash

U.S. BANCORP   47 

Table of Contents   

flows of the impaired loans are subject to evaluation. Decreases
    in the present value of expected cash flows are recognized by
    recording an allowance for credit losses.

Although the Company determines the amount of each element of
    the allowance separately and considers this process to be an
    important credit management tool, the entire allowance for
    credit losses is available for the entire loan portfolio. The
    actual amount of losses incurred can vary significantly from the
    estimated amounts.

Residual Value
    Risk Management    The
    Company manages its risk to changes in the residual value of
    leased assets through disciplined residual valuation setting at
    the inception of a lease, diversification of its leased assets,
    regular residual asset valuation reviews and monitoring of
    residual value gains or losses upon the disposition of assets.
    Commercial lease originations are subject to the same
    well-defined underwriting standards referred to in the
     Credit Risk Management  section which includes an
    evaluation of the residual value risk. Retail lease residual
    value risk is mitigated further by originating longer-term
    vehicle leases and effective
     end-of-term 
    marketing of off-lease vehicles.

Included in the retail leasing portfolio was approximately
    $2.9 billion of retail leasing residuals at
    December 31, 2010, unchanged from December 31, 2009.
    The Company monitors concentrations of leases by manufacturer
    and vehicle  make and model.  As of December 31,
    2010, vehicle lease residuals related to sport utility vehicles
    were 48.2 percent of the portfolio while upscale and
    mid-range vehicle classes represented approximately
    22.4 percent and 14.2 percent of the portfolio,
    respectively. At year-end 2010, the largest vehicle-type
    concentration represented approximately 5 percent of the
    aggregate residual value of the vehicles in the portfolio.

Because retail residual valuations tend to be less volatile for
    longer-term leases, relative to the estimated residual at
    inception of the lease, the Company actively manages lease
    origination production to achieve a longer-term portfolio. At
    December 31, 2010, the weighted-average origination term of
    the portfolio was 44 months, compared with 45 months
    at December 31, 2009. In 2008, sales of used vehicles
    softened from prior years, due to the overall weakening of the
    economy. As a result, the Company s portfolio experienced
    deterioration in residual values in 2008 in all categories; most
    notably sport utility vehicles and luxury models, as a result of
    higher fuel prices and weak economic conditions. Used vehicle
    prices increased substantially during 2009, as sales of vehicles
    were affected by the financial condition of the automobile
    manufacturers and various government programs and involvement
    with the manufacturers. The used vehicle market continued to
    recover in 2010, and reached record high levels as a higher
    percentage of consumers purchased used, instead of new, vehicles
    due to uncertainty about the economy.

At December 31, 2010, the commercial leasing portfolio had
    $661 million of residuals, compared with $701 million
    at December 31, 2009. At year-end 2010, lease residuals
    related to trucks and other transportation equipment were
    31.7 percent of the total residual portfolio. Business and
    office equipment represented 20.8 percent of the aggregate
    portfolio, while railcars represented 12.3 percent. No
    other concentrations of more than 10 percent existed at
    December 31, 2010.

Operational Risk
    Management    Operational
    risk represents the risk of loss resulting from the
    Company s operations, including, but not limited to, the
    risk of fraud by employees or persons outside the Company, the
    execution of unauthorized transactions by employees, errors
    relating to transaction processing and technology, breaches of
    the internal control system and compliance requirements, and
    business continuation and disaster recovery. This risk of loss
    also includes the potential legal actions that could arise as a
    result of an operational deficiency or as a result of
    noncompliance with applicable regulatory standards, adverse
    business decisions or their implementation, and customer
    attrition due to potential negative publicity.

The Company operates in many different businesses in diverse
    markets and relies on the ability of its employees and systems
    to process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is
    inherent in all business activities, and the management of this
    risk is important to the achievement of the Company s
    objectives. In the event of a breakdown in the internal control
    system, improper operation of systems or improper
    employees  actions, the Company could suffer financial
    loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation.

The Company manages operational risk through a risk management
    framework and its internal control processes. Within this
    framework, the Risk Management Committee of the Company s
    Board of Directors provides oversight and assesses the most
    significant operational risks facing the Company within its
    business lines. Under the guidance of the Risk Management
    Committee, enterprise risk management personnel establish
    policies and interact with business lines to monitor significant
    operating risks on a regular basis. Business lines have direct
    and primary responsibility and accountability for identifying,
    controlling, and monitoring operational risks embedded in their
    business activities. Business managers maintain a system of
    controls with the objective of providing proper transaction
    authorization and execution, proper system

48     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

operations, safeguarding of assets from misuse or theft, and
    ensuring the reliability of financial and other data. Business
    managers ensure that the controls are appropriate and are
    implemented as designed.

Each business line within the Company has designated risk
    managers. These risk managers are responsible for, among other
    things, coordinating the completion of ongoing risk assessments
    and ensuring that operational risk management is integrated into
    business decision-making activities. The Company s internal
    audit function validates the system of internal controls through
    regular and ongoing risk-based audit procedures and reports on
    the effectiveness of internal controls to executive management
    and the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Management
    also provides various operational risk related reporting to the
    Risk Management Committee of the Board of Directors.

Customer-related business conditions may also increase
    operational risk, or the level of operational losses in certain
    transaction processing business units, including merchant
    processing activities. Ongoing risk monitoring of customer
    activities and their financial condition and operational
    processes serve to mitigate customer-related operational risk.
    Refer to Note 22 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for further discussion on merchant processing.
    Business continuation and disaster recovery planning is also
    critical to effectively managing operational risks. Each
    business unit of the Company is required to develop, maintain
    and test these plans at least annually to ensure that recovery
    activities, if needed, can support mission critical functions,
    including technology, networks and data centers supporting
    customer applications and business operations.

While the Company believes that it has designed effective
    methods to minimize operational risks, there is no absolute
    assurance that business disruption or operational losses would
    not occur in the event of a disaster. On an ongoing basis,
    management makes process changes and investments to enhance its
    systems of internal controls and business continuity and
    disaster recovery plans.

Interest Rate
    Risk Management    In the
    banking industry, changes in interest rates are a significant
    risk that can impact earnings, market valuations and safety and
    soundness of an entity. To minimize the volatility of net
    interest income and the market value of assets and liabilities,
    the Company manages its exposure to changes in interest rates
    through asset and liability management activities within
    guidelines established by its Asset Liability Committee
    ( ALCO ) and approved by the Board of Directors. The
    ALCO has the responsibility for approving and ensuring
    compliance with the ALCO management policies, including interest
    rate risk exposure. The Company uses net interest income
    simulation analysis and market value of equity modeling for
    measuring and analyzing consolidated interest rate risk.

Net Interest
    Income Simulation Analysis
        One of the primary
    tools used to measure interest rate risk and the effect of
    interest rate changes on net interest income is simulation
    analysis. The monthly analysis incorporates substantially all of
    the Company s assets and liabilities and off-balance sheet
    instruments, together with forecasted changes in the balance
    sheet and assumptions that reflect the current interest rate
    environment. Through this simulation, management estimates the
    impact on net interest income of a 200 basis point
    ( bps ) upward or downward gradual change of market
    interest rates over a one-year period. The simulation also
    estimates the effect of immediate and sustained parallel shifts
    in the yield curve of 50 bps as well as the effect of
    immediate and sustained flattening or steepening of the yield
    curve. This simulation includes assumptions about how the
    balance sheet is likely to be affected by changes in loan and
    deposit growth. Assumptions are made to project interest rates
    for new loans and deposits based on historical analysis,
    management s outlook and re-pricing strategies. These
    assumptions are validated on a periodic basis. A sensitivity
    analysis is provided for key variables of the simulation. The
    results are reviewed by the ALCO monthly and are used to guide
    asset/liability management strategies.

The table below summarizes the projected impact to net interest
    income over the next 12 months of various potential
    interest rate changes. The Company manages its interest rate
    risk position by holding assets on the balance sheet with
    desired interest rate risk characteristics, implementing certain
    pricing strategies for loans and deposits and through the
    selection of derivatives and various funding and investment
    portfolio strategies. The Company manages the overall interest
    rate risk profile within policy limits. The ALCO policy limits
    the

SENSITIVITY
    OF NET INTEREST INCOME

*

Given
    the current level of interest rates, a downward rate scenario
    can not be computed.   

U.S. BANCORP   49 

Table of Contents   

estimated change in net interest income in a gradual
    200 bps rate change scenario to a 4.0 percent decline
    of forecasted net interest income over the next 12 months.
    At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company was within this
    policy.

Market Value
    of Equity Modeling
        The Company also
    manages interest rate sensitivity by utilizing market value of
    equity modeling, which measures the degree to which the market
    values of the Company s assets and liabilities and
    off-balance sheet instruments will change given a change in
    interest rates. Management measures the impact of changes in
    market interest rates under a number of scenarios, including
    immediate and sustained parallel shifts, and flattening or
    steepening of the yield curve. The ALCO policy limits the change
    in the market value of equity in a 200 bps parallel rate
    shock to a 15.0 percent decline. A 200 bps increase
    would have resulted in a 3.6 percent decrease in the market
    value of equity at December 31, 2010, compared with a
    4.3 percent decrease at December 31, 2009. A
    200 bps decrease, where possible given current rates, would
    have resulted in a 5.2 percent decrease in the market value
    of equity at December 31, 2010, compared with a
    2.8 percent decrease at December 31, 2009.

The valuation analysis is dependent upon certain key assumptions
    about the nature of assets and liabilities with non-contractual
    maturities. Management estimates the average life and rate
    characteristics of asset and liability accounts based upon
    historical analysis and management s expectation of rate
    behavior. These assumptions are validated on a periodic basis. A
    sensitivity analysis of key variables of the valuation analysis
    is provided to the ALCO monthly and is used to guide
    asset/liability management strategies.

Use of
    Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate and Other Risks
        To reduce the
    sensitivity of earnings to interest rate, prepayment, credit,
    price and foreign currency fluctuations ( asset and
    liability management positions ), the Company enters into
    derivative transactions. The Company uses derivatives for asset
    and liability management purposes primarily in the following
    ways:

To convert fixed-rate debt, issued to finance the Company, from
    fixed-rate payments to floating-rate payments;

To convert the cash flows associated with floating-rate debt,
    issued to finance the Company, from floating-rate payments to
    fixed-rate payments; and

To mitigate changes in value of the Company s mortgage
    origination pipeline, funded mortgage loans held for sale and
    MSRs.

To manage these risks, the Company may enter into
    exchange-traded and
     over-the-counter 
    derivative contracts including interest rate swaps, swaptions,
    futures, forwards and options. In addition, the Company enters
    into interest rate and foreign exchange derivative contracts to
    accommodate the business requirements of its customers
    ( customer-related positions ). The Company minimizes
    the market and liquidity risks of customer-related positions by
    entering into similar offsetting positions with broker-dealers.
    The Company does not utilize derivatives for speculative
    purposes.

The Company does not designate all of the derivatives that it
    enters into for risk management purposes as accounting hedges
    because of the inefficiency of applying the accounting
    requirements, and may instead elect fair value accounting for
    the related hedged items. In particular, the Company enters into
    U.S. Treasury futures, options on U.S. Treasury
    futures contracts, interest rate swaps and forward commitments
    to buy residential mortgage loans to mitigate fluctuations in
    the value of its MSRs, but does not designate those derivatives
    as accounting hedges.

Additionally, the Company uses forward commitments to sell
    residential mortgage loans at specified prices to economically
    hedge the interest rate risk in its residential mortgage loan
    production activities. At December 31, 2010, the Company
    had $15.1 billion of forward commitments to sell mortgage
    loans hedging $8.1 billion of mortgage loans held for sale
    and $9.6 billion of unfunded mortgage loan commitments. The
    forward commitments to sell and the unfunded mortgage loan
    commitments are considered derivatives under the accounting
    guidance related to accounting for derivative instruments and
    hedge activities, and the Company has elected the fair value
    option for the mortgage loans held for sale.

Derivatives are subject to credit risk associated with
    counterparties to the contracts. Credit risk associated with
    derivatives is measured by the Company based on the probability
    of counterparty default. The Company manages the credit risk of
    its derivative positions by diversifying its positions among
    various counterparties, entering into master netting agreements
    where possible with its counterparties, requiring collateral
    agreements with credit-rating thresholds and, in certain cases,
    though insignificant, transferring the counterparty credit risk
    related to interest rate swaps to third-parties through the use
    of risk participation agreements.

For additional information on derivatives and hedging
    activities, refer to Note 20 in the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

50     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Table
    18       DEBT
    RATINGS

Dominion 

Standard   

Bond 

Moody s

Poor s

Fitch

Rating Service

U.S. Bancorp 

Short-term borrowings

F1+

R-1 (middle

)

Senior debt and medium-term notes

Aa3

A+

AA-

AA

Subordinated debt

A1

A

A+

AA (low

)

Preferred stock

A3

BBB+

A

A

Commercial paper

P-1

A-1

F1+

R-1 (middle

)

U.S. Bank National Association 

Short-term time deposits

P-1

A-1+

F1+

R-1 (high

)

Long-term time deposits

Aa2

AA-

AA

AA (high

)

Bank notes

Aa2/P-1

AA-/A-1+

AA-/F1+

AA (high

)

Subordinated debt

Aa3

A+

A+

AA

Senior unsecured debt

Aa2

AA-

AA-

AA (high

)

Commercial paper

P-1

A-1+

F1+

R-1 (high

)

Market Risk
    Management    In addition
    to interest rate risk, the Company is exposed to other forms of
    market risk, principally related to trading activities which
    support customers  strategies to manage their own foreign
    currency, interest rate risks and funding activities. The ALCO
    established the Market Risk Committee ( MRC ), which
    oversees market risk management. The MRC monitors and reviews
    the Company s trading positions and establishes policies
    for market risk management, including exposure limits for each
    portfolio. The Company also manages market risk of non-trading
    business activities, including its MSRs and loans held for sale.
    The Company uses a Value at Risk ( VaR ) approach to
    measure general market risk. Theoretically, VaR represents the
    amount the Company has at risk of loss to adverse market
    movements over a
     1-day  time
    horizon. The Company measures VaR at the ninety-ninth percentile
    using distributions derived from past market data. On average,
    the Company expects the one day VaR to be exceeded two to three
    times per year. The Company monitors the effectiveness of its
    risk program by back-testing the performance of its VaR models,
    regularly updating the historical data used by the VaR models
    and stress testing. The Company s trading VaR did not
    exceed $5 million during 2010 and $4 million during 2009.

Liquidity Risk
    Management    The ALCO
    establishes policies and guidelines, as well as analyzes and
    manages liquidity, to ensure adequate funds are available to
    meet normal operating requirements, and unexpected customer
    demands for funds, such as high levels of deposit withdrawals or
    loan demand, in a timely and cost-effective manner. Liquidity
    management is viewed from long-term and short-term perspectives,
    including various stress scenarios, as well as from an asset and
    liability perspective. Management monitors liquidity through a
    regular review of maturity profiles, funding sources, and loan
    and deposit forecasts to minimize funding risk.

Since 2008, the financial markets have been challenging for many
    financial institutions. As a result of these financial market
    conditions, many banks experienced liquidity constraints,
    substantially increased pricing to retain deposits or utilized
    the Federal Reserve System discount window to secure adequate
    funding. The Company s profitable operations, sound credit
    quality and strong capital position have enabled it to develop a
    large and reliable base of core deposit funding within its
    market areas and in domestic and global capital markets. This
    has allowed the Company to maintain a strong liquidity position,
    as depositors and investors in the wholesale funding markets
    seek stable financial institutions.

The ALCO reviews the Company s ability to meet funding
    requirements due to adverse business or market events. The
    Company regularly projects its liquidity position under various
    stress scenarios and maintains contingency plans that reflect
    its access to diversified funding sources. Historically, a
    significant amount of the Company s available liquidity has
    been provided by its ability, through its subsidiaries, to
    borrow against its assets at various Federal Home Loan Banks
    ( FHLB ) and the Federal Reserve System. In response
    to recent regulatory proposals, the Company has begun to acquire
    U.S. Government and agency securities as an additional
    source of available liquidity. The Company expects to continue
    to increase its U.S. Government and agency securities
    holdings to meet these liquidity objectives. The Company s
    liquidity policies require diversification of wholesale funding
    sources to avoid maturity, name and market concentrations. The
    Company maintains a Grand

U.S. BANCORP   51 

Table of Contents   

Table
    19       CONTRACTUAL
    OBLIGATIONS

(a)

Unrecognized
    tax positions of $532 million at December 31, 2010,
    are excluded as the Company cannot make a reasonably reliable
    estimate of the period of cash settlement with the respective
    taxing authority.   

(b)

In
    the banking industry, interest-bearing obligations are
    principally utilized to fund interest-bearing assets. As such,
    interest charges on related contractual obligations were
    excluded from reported amounts as the potential cash outflows
    would have corresponding cash inflows from interest-bearing
    assets.   

(c)

Includes
    obligations under capital leases.   

(d)

Amounts
    only include obligations related to the unfunded non-qualified
    pension plans and post-retirement medical plan.   

Cayman branch for issuing eurodollar time deposits. In addition,
    the Company establishes relationships with dealers to issue
    national market retail and institutional savings certificates
    and short-term and medium-term bank notes. The Company s
    subsidiary banks also have significant correspondent banking
    networks and relationships. Accordingly, the Company has access
    to national fed funds, funding through repurchase agreements and
    sources of stable, regionally-based certificates of deposit and
    commercial paper.

The Company s ability to raise negotiated funding at
    competitive prices is influenced by rating agencies  views
    of the Company s credit quality, liquidity, capital and
    earnings. Table 18 details the rating agencies  most recent
    assessments.

The parent company s routine funding requirements consist
    primarily of operating expenses, dividends paid to shareholders,
    debt service, repurchases of common stock and funds used for
    acquisitions. The parent company obtains funding to meet its
    obligations from dividends collected from its subsidiaries and
    the issuance of debt securities.

Under United States Securities and Exchange Commission rules,
    the parent company is classified as a  well-known seasoned
    issuer,  which allows it to file a registration statement
    that does not have a limit on issuance capacity.
     Well-known seasoned issuers  generally include those
    companies with outstanding common securities with a market value
    of at least $700 million held by non-affiliated parties or
    those companies that have issued at least $1 billion in
    aggregate principal amount of non-convertible securities, other
    than common equity, in the last three years. However, the parent
    company s ability to issue debt and other securities under
    a registration statement filed with the United States Securities
    and Exchange Commission under these rules is limited by the debt
    issuance authority granted by the Company s Board of
    Directors
     and/or  the
    ALCO policy.

At December 31, 2010, parent company long-term debt
    outstanding was $13.0 billion, compared with
    $14.5 billion at December 31, 2009. The
    $1.5 billion decrease was primarily due to repayments and
    maturities of $5.2 billion of medium-term notes and the
    extinguishment of $.6 billion of junior subordinated
    debentures in connection with the ITS exchange, partially offset
    by $4.2 billion of medium-term note issuances. As of
    December 31, 2010, there was $3 million of parent
    company debt scheduled to mature in 2011. Future debt
    obligations may be met through medium-term note and capital
    security issuances and dividends from subsidiaries, as well as
    from parent company cash and cash equivalents.

Federal banking laws regulate the amount of dividends that may
    be paid by banking subsidiaries without prior approval. The
    amount of dividends available to the parent company from its
    banking subsidiaries after meeting the regulatory capital
    requirements for well-capitalized banks was approximately
    $5.8 billion at December 31, 2010. For further
    information, see Note 23 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Off-Balance
    Sheet Arrangements
        Off-balance sheet
    arrangements include any contractual arrangement to which an
    unconsolidated entity is a party, under which the Company has an
    obligation to provide credit or liquidity enhancements or market
    risk support. Off-balance sheet arrangements also include any
    obligation under a variable interest held by an unconsolidated
    entity that provides financing, liquidity, credit enhancement or
    market risk support.

In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into an
    array of commitments to extend credit, letters of credit and
    various forms of guarantees that may be considered off-balance
    sheet arrangements. The nature and extent of these arrangements
    are described in Note 22 of the

52     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Table
    20       REGULATORY
    CAPITAL RATIOS

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. The Company has not
    significantly utilized asset securitizations or conduits as a
    source of funding.

Capital
    Management    The Company
    is committed to managing capital to maintain strong protection
    for depositors and creditors and for maximum shareholder
    benefit. The Company continually assesses its business risks and
    capital position. The Company also manages its capital to exceed
    regulatory capital requirements for well-capitalized bank
    holding companies. To achieve these capital goals, the Company
    employs a variety of capital management tools, including
    dividends, common share repurchases, and the issuance of
    subordinated debt, common stock and other capital instruments.

The Company repurchased approximately 1 million shares of
    its common stock in 2010, compared with an immaterial amount in
    2009, related to employee stock plan activity under various
    authorizations approved by its Board of Directors. The average
    price paid for the shares repurchased in 2010 was $23.88 per
    share, compared with $14.02 per share in 2009. As of
    December 31, 2010, the Company had approximately
    20 million shares that may yet be purchased under the
    current Board of Director approved authorization. For a more
    complete analysis of activities impacting shareholders 
    equity and capital management programs, refer to Note 15 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Total U.S. Bancorp shareholders  equity was
    $29.5 billion at December 31, 2010, compared with
    $26.0 billion at December 31, 2009. The increase was
    primarily the result of corporate earnings, the issuance of
    $.4 billion of perpetual preferred stock in connection with
    the ITS exchange, and changes in unrealized gains and losses on
     available-for-sale 
    investment securities included in other comprehensive income,
    partially offset by dividends.

Banking regulators define minimum capital requirements for banks
    and financial services holding companies. These requirements are
    expressed in the form of a minimum Tier 1 capital ratio,
    total risk-based capital ratio, and Tier 1 leverage ratio.
    The minimum required level for these ratios is 4.0 percent,
    8.0 percent, and 4.0 percent, respectively. The
    Company targets its regulatory capital levels, at both the bank
    and bank holding company level, to exceed the
     well-capitalized  threshold for these ratios of
    6.0 percent, 10.0 percent, and 5.0 percent,
    respectively. The most recent notification from the Office of
    the Comptroller of the Currency categorized each of the
    Company s banks as  well-capitalized , under the
    FDIC Improvement Act prompt corrective action provisions
    applicable to all banks. There are no conditions or events since
    that notification that management believes have changed the
    risk-based category of any covered subsidiary banks.

As an approved mortgage seller and servicer, U.S. Bank
    National Association, through its mortgage banking division, is
    required to maintain various levels of shareholders 
    equity,

U.S. BANCORP   53 

Table of Contents   

as specified by various agencies, including the United States
    Department of Housing and Urban Development, Government National
    Mortgage Association, Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation and
    the Federal National Mortgage Association. At December 31,
    2010, U.S. Bank National Association met these requirements.

Table 20 provides a summary of capital ratios as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, including Tier 1 and total
    risk-based capital ratios, as defined by the regulatory agencies.

The Company believes certain capital ratios in addition to
    regulatory capital ratios are useful in evaluating its capital
    adequacy. The Company s Tier 1 common (using Basel
    I definition) and tangible common equity, as a percent of
    risk-weighted assets, were 7.8 percent and
    7.2 percent, respectively, at December 31, 2010,
    compared with 6.8 percent and 6.1 percent,
    respectively, at December 31, 2009. The Company s
    tangible common equity divided by tangible assets was
    6.0 percent at December 31, 2010, compared with
    5.3 percent at December 31, 2009. Refer to
     Non-Regulatory Capital Ratios  for further
    information regarding the calculation of these measures.

FOURTH QUARTER
    SUMMARY

The Company reported net income attributable to
    U.S. Bancorp of $974 million for the fourth quarter of
    2010, or $.49 per diluted common share, compared with
    $602 million, or $.30 per diluted common share, for the
    fourth quarter of 2009. Return on average assets and return on
    average common equity were 1.31 percent and
    13.7 percent, respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2010,
    compared with returns of .86 percent and 9.6 percent,
    respectively, for the fourth quarter of 2009. Included in the
    fourth quarter 2010 results was the $103 million
    ($41 million after tax) Nuveen Gain, a provision for credit
    losses less than net charge-offs by $25 million and net
    securities losses of $14 million. Significant items in the
    fourth quarter of 2009 that impact the comparison of results
    included a provision for credit losses in excess of net
    charge-offs of $278 million and net securities losses of
    $158 million.

Total net revenue, on a taxable-equivalent basis for the fourth
    quarter of 2010, was $345 million (7.9 percent) higher
    than the fourth quarter of 2009, reflecting a 5.9 percent
    increase in net interest income and a 10.2 percent increase
    in total noninterest income. The increase in net interest income
    from 2009 was largely the result of an increase in average
    earning assets and continued growth in lower cost core

Table
    21       FOURTH
    QUARTER RESULTS

(a)

Interest
    and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis
    utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent.   

54     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

deposit funding. Noninterest income increased over a year ago,
    primarily due to higher payments-related revenue, commercial
    products revenue, mortgage banking revenue, other income and
    lower securities losses.

Fourth quarter 2010 net interest income, on a
    taxable-equivalent basis was $2.5 billion, compared with
    $2.4 billion in the fourth quarter of 2009. The
    $139 million (5.9 percent) increase was principally
    the result of growth in average earning assets. Average earning
    assets for the fourth quarter of 2010 increased over the fourth
    quarter of 2009 by $14.5 billion (5.9 percent), driven
    by increases of $3.8 billion (2.0 percent) in average
    loans and $5.6 billion (12.8 percent) in average
    investment securities. The net interest margin in the fourth
    quarter of 2010 was 3.83 percent, unchanged from the fourth
    quarter of 2009, as the impact of favorable funding rates was
    offset by a reduction in the yield on residential mortgages and
    investment securities.

Noninterest income in the fourth quarter of 2010 was
    $2.2 billion, compared with $2.0 billion in the same
    period of 2009, an increase of $206 million
    (10.2 percent). The increase was due to higher
    payments-related revenues of $38 million
    (5.1 percent), largely due to increased transaction volumes
    and business expansion, an increase in commercial products
    revenue of $23 million (12.4 percent), attributable to
    higher standby letters of credit fees, commercial loan and
    syndication fees and other capital markets revenue.
    Additionally, mortgage banking revenue was higher than the
    fourth quarter of 2009 by $32 million (14.7 percent),
    driven by higher origination and sales and servicing revenue,
    partially offset by a lower net valuation of MSRs. Total
    noninterest income was also favorably impacted by a decrease in
    net securities losses of $144 million (91.1 percent).
    Other income increased $50 million (20.4 percent),
    principally due to the fourth quarter 2010 Nuveen Gain and a
    gain related to the Company s investment in Visa Inc.,
    partially offset by the fourth quarter 2009 payments-related
    contract termination gain, lower customer derivative revenue and
    lower retail lease residual valuation income. Offsetting these
    positive variances was a decrease of deposit service charges of
    $94 million (39.5 percent) as a result of revised
    overdraft fee policies, partially offset by core account growth.

Noninterest expense was $2.5 billion in the fourth quarter
    of 2010, an increase of $257 million (11.5 percent)
    from the fourth quarter of 2009. The increase was principally
    due to the impact of acquisitions and increased total
    compensation and employee benefits expense. Total compensation
    and employee benefits expense increased $209 million
    (21.7 percent), reflecting acquisitions, branch expansion
    and other business initiatives, higher incentive compensation
    costs related to the Company s improved financial results
    and merit increases. Net occupancy and equipment expense
    increased $23 million (10.7 percent), principally due
    to acquisitions and other business expansion and technology
    initiatives. Professional services expense was $16 million
    (19.8 percent) higher, due to technology-related projects
    and other projects across multiple business lines. Postage,
    printing and supplies expense increased $8 million
    (11.4 percent), principally due to payments-related
    business initiatives. Other expense increased $17 million
    (3.4 percent), largely due to costs associated with OREO,
    acquisition integration, insurance and litigation matters. Other
    intangibles expense decreased $18 million
    (16.8 percent) due to the declining level or completion of
    scheduled amortization of certain intangibles.

The provision for credit losses for the fourth quarter of 2010
    was $912 million, a decrease of $476 million
    (34.3 percent) from the same period of 2009. Net
    charge-offs decreased $173 million (15.6 percent) in
    the fourth quarter of 2010, compared with the fourth quarter of
    2009, principally due to improvement in the commercial, credit
    card and other retail portfolios. The provision for credit
    losses was $25 million lower than net charge-offs in the
    fourth quarter of 2010, but exceeded net charge-offs by
    $278 million in the fourth quarter of 2009.

The provision for income taxes for the fourth quarter of 2010
    resulted in an effective tax rate of 24.8 percent, compared
    with an effective tax rate of 15.2 percent in the fourth
    quarter of 2009. The increase in the effective rate for the
    fourth quarter of 2010, compared with the same period of the
    prior year, principally reflected the marginal impact of higher
    pre-tax earnings
     year-over-year 
    and the Nuveen Gain in the fourth quarter of 2010.

LINE OF BUSINESS
    FINANCIAL REVIEW

The Company s major lines of business are Wholesale Banking
    and Commercial Real Estate, Consumer and Small Business Banking,
    Wealth Management and Securities Services, Payment Services, and
    Treasury and Corporate Support. These operating segments are
    components of the Company about which financial information is
    prepared and is evaluated regularly by management in deciding
    how to allocate resources and assess performance.

Basis for
    Financial Presentation
       Business line results
    are derived from the Company s business unit profitability
    reporting systems by specifically attributing managed

U.S. BANCORP   55 

Table of Contents   

balance sheet assets, deposits and other liabilities and their
    related income or expense. Goodwill and other intangible assets
    are assigned to the lines of business based on the mix of
    business of the acquired entity. Within the Company, capital
    levels are evaluated and managed centrally; however, capital is
    allocated to the operating segments to support evaluation of
    business performance. Business lines are allocated capital on a
    risk-adjusted basis considering economic and regulatory capital
    requirements. Generally, the determination of the amount of
    capital allocated to each business line includes credit and
    operational capital allocations following a Basel II
    regulatory framework. Interest income and expense is determined
    based on the assets and liabilities managed by the business
    line. Because funding and asset liability management is a
    central function, funds transfer-pricing methodologies are
    utilized to allocate a cost of funds used or credit for funds
    provided to all business line assets and liabilities,
    respectively, using a matched funding concept. Also, each
    business unit is allocated the taxable-equivalent benefit of
    tax-exempt products. The residual effect on net interest income
    of
     asset/liability 
    management activities is included in Treasury and Corporate
    Support. Noninterest income and expenses directly managed by
    each business line, including fees, service charges, salaries
    and benefits, and other direct revenues and costs are accounted
    for within each segment s

Table
    22       LINE
    OF BUSINESS FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE

* Not
    meaningful  

56     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

financial results in a manner similar to the consolidated
    financial statements. Occupancy costs are allocated based on
    utilization of facilities by the lines of business. Generally,
    operating losses are charged to the line of business when the
    loss event is realized in a manner similar to a loan charge-off.
    Noninterest expenses incurred by centrally managed operations or
    business lines that directly support another business
    line s operations are charged to the applicable business
    line based on its utilization of those services, primarily
    measured by the volume of customer activities, number of
    employees or other relevant factors. These allocated expenses
    are reported as net shared services expense within noninterest
    expense. Certain activities that do not directly support the
    operations of the lines of business or for which the lines of
    business are not considered financially accountable in
    evaluating their performance are not charged to the lines of
    business. The income or expenses associated with these corporate
    activities is reported within the Treasury and Corporate Support
    line of business. Income taxes are assessed to each line of
    business at a standard tax rate with the residual tax expense or
    benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax rate
    included in Treasury and Corporate Support.

U.S. BANCORP   57 

Table of Contents   

Designations, assignments and allocations change from time to
    time as management systems are enhanced, methods of evaluating
    performance or product lines change or business segments are
    realigned to better respond to the Company s diverse
    customer base. During 2010, certain organization and methodology
    changes were made and, accordingly, 2009 results were restated
    and presented on a comparable basis.

Wholesale Banking
    and Commercial Real Estate
         Wholesale Banking and
    Commercial Real Estate offers lending, equipment finance and
    small-ticket leasing, depository, treasury management, capital
    markets, foreign exchange, international trade services and
    other financial services to middle market, large corporate,
    commercial real estate, financial institution and public sector
    clients. Wholesale Banking and Commercial Real Estate
    contributed $408 million of the Company s net income
    in 2010, or an increase of $264 million compared with 2009.
    The increase was primarily driven by higher net revenue and
    lower provision for credit losses expense, partially offset by
    higher noninterest expense.

Total net revenue increased $261 million (8.8 percent)
    in 2010, compared with 2009. Net interest income, on a
    taxable-equivalent basis, increased $92 million
    (4.6 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009, driven by
    improved spreads on loans, partially offset by a decrease in
    total average loans and the impact of declining rates on the
    margin benefit of deposits. Total noninterest income increased
    $169 million (17.2 percent) in 2010, compared with
    2009. The increase

was mainly due to strong growth in commercial products revenue,
    including standby letters of credit, commercial loan and capital
    markets fees and higher equity investment income, partially
    offset by lower commercial leasing revenue.

Total noninterest expense increased $159 million
    (14.2 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due
    to higher total compensation and employee benefits expense and
    increased costs related to OREO. The provision for credit losses
    decreased $310 million (19.0 percent) in 2010,
    compared with 2009. The favorable change was primarily due to a
    decrease in the reserve allocation, partially offset by higher
    net charge-offs. Nonperforming assets were $1.7 billion at
    December 31, 2010, compared with $2.6 billion at
    December 31, 2009. Nonperforming assets as a percentage of
    period-end loans were 2.97 percent at December 31,
    2010, compared with 4.44 percent at December 31, 2009.
    Refer to the  Corporate Risk Profile  section for
    further information on factors impacting the credit quality of
    the loan portfolios.

Consumer and
    Small Business Banking    
    Consumer and Small Business Banking delivers products and
    services through banking offices, telephone servicing and sales,
    on-line services, direct mail and ATM processing. It encompasses
    community banking, metropolitan banking, in-store banking, small
    business banking, consumer lending, mortgage banking, consumer
    finance, workplace banking, student banking and
     24-hour 
    banking. Consumer and Small Business Banking contributed
    $729 million of the Company s net income in 2010, or a
    decrease of $149 million (17.0 percent), compared with
    2009. Within Consumer and Small Business Banking, the retail
    banking division contributed $162 million of the total net
    income in 2010, or a decrease of $163 million
    (50.2 percent) from the prior year. Mortgage banking
    contributed $567 million of the business line s net
    income in 2010, or an increase of $14 million
    (2.5 percent) over the prior year.

Total net revenue increased $76 million (1.1 percent)
    in 2010, compared with 2009. Net interest income, on a
    taxable-equivalent basis, increased $300 million
    (7.5 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009. The
     year-over-year 
    increase in net interest income was due to improved loan
    spreads, higher deposit volumes and loan fees, partially offset
    by a decline in the margin benefit of deposits. Total
    noninterest income decreased $224 million
    (7.6 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009. The
     year-over-year 
    decrease in total noninterest income was driven by lower deposit
    service charges, principally due to the impact of
    Company-initiated and regulatory revisions to overdraft fee
    policies and lower overdraft incidences, and lower mortgage
    origination and sales revenue. These decreases were partially
    offset by improvement in retail lease
     end-of-term 
    results and higher ATM processing servicing fees.

Total noninterest expense increased $565 million
    (15.2 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009. The increase
    reflected higher total compensation and employee benefits
    expense, higher processing costs and net occupancy and equipment
    expenses related to business expansion, including the impact of
    the FBOP acquisition.

The provision for credit losses decreased $257 million
    (13.7 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009, as stress
    within the installment and other consumer loan portfolios
    moderated. As a percentage of average loans outstanding, net
    charge-offs decreased to 1.48 percent in 2010, compared
    with 1.50 percent in 2009. Nonperforming assets were

58     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

$1.4 billion at December 31, 2010, compared with
    $1.3 billion at December 31, 2009. Nonperforming
    assets as a percentage of period-end loans were
    1.34 percent at December 31, 2010, compared with
    1.35 percent at December 31, 2009. Refer to the
     Corporate Risk Profile  section for further
    information on factors impacting the credit quality of the loan
    portfolios.

Wealth Management
    and Securities Services
         Wealth Management and
    Securities Services provides private banking, financial advisory
    services, investment management, retail brokerage services,
    insurance, trust, custody and fund servicing through five
    businesses: Wealth Management, Corporate Trust Services,
    U.S. Bancorp Asset Management, Institutional
    Trust   Custody and Fund Services. Wealth
    Management and Securities Services contributed $220 million
    of the Company s net income in 2010, a decrease of
    $114 million (34.1 percent), compared with 2009.

Total net revenue decreased $68 million (4.6 percent)
    in 2010, compared with 2009, driven by adverse capital markets.
    Net interest income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, increased
    $18 million (6.0 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009.
    The increase in net interest income was primarily due to higher
    deposit volumes as customers migrated from money market funds to
    deposit products, partially offset by a decline in the related
    margin benefit. Noninterest income decreased $86 million
    (7.2 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009, as low interest
    rates negatively impacted money market investment fees and lower
    money market fund balances led to a decline in account-level
    fees.

Total noninterest expense increased $118 million
    (12.6 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009. The increase in
    noninterest expense was primarily due to higher total
    compensation, employee benefits expense and FDIC insurance
    assessments.

Payment Services
       Payment Services
    includes consumer and business credit cards, stored-value cards,
    debit cards, corporate and purchasing card services, consumer
    lines of credit and merchant processing. Payment Services
    contributed $773 million of the Company s net income
    in 2010, or an increase of $495 million compared with 2009.
    The increase was primarily due to an increase in total net
    revenue and a decrease in the provision for credit losses,
    partially offset by higher noninterest expense.

Total net revenue increased $315 million (7.5 percent)
    in 2010, compared with 2009. Net interest income, on a
    taxable-equivalent basis, increased $169 million
    (14.4 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due
    to strong growth in credit card loan balances and improved loan
    spreads, partially offset by the cost of rebates on the
    government card program, as well as reduced loan fees from the
    implementation of the Credit Card Accountability, Responsibility
    and Disclosure Act of 2009 beginning in the second quarter of
    2010. Noninterest income increased $146 million
    (4.9 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009, driven by higher
    transaction volumes across all products, partially offset by a
    fourth quarter of 2009 contract termination gain.

Total noninterest expense increased $189 million
    (11.1 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009, due to higher
    total compensation, employee benefits and professional services
    expense, partially offset by lower marketing and business
    development expense.

The provision for credit losses decreased $660 million
    (33.1 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009, primarily due
    to a reduction in the reserve allocation, as the level of stress
    in economic conditions moderated. As a percentage of average
    loans outstanding, net charge-offs were 6.31 percent in
    2010, compared with 6.16 percent in 2009.

Treasury and
    Corporate Support
       Treasury and Corporate
    Support includes the Company s investment portfolios, most
    covered commercial and commercial real estate loans and related
    OREO, funding, capital management, asset securitization,
    interest rate risk management, the net effect of transfer
    pricing related to average balances and the residual aggregate
    of expenses associated with corporate activities that are
    managed on a consolidated basis. Treasury and Corporate Support
    recorded net income of $1.2 billion in 2010, compared with
    $571 million in 2009.

Total net revenue increased $896 million
    (85.0 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009. Net interest
    income, on a taxable-equivalent basis, increased
    $493 million (39.8 percent) in 2010, compared with
    2009, reflecting the impact of the FBOP acquisition, the current
    interest rate environment, wholesale funding decisions and the
    Company s asset/liability position. Total noninterest
    income increased $403 million in 2010, compared with 2009,
    primarily due to lower net securities losses, the 2010 Nuveen
    Gain and higher gains on the Company s investment in Visa
    Inc., partially offset by a gain on a corporate real estate
    transaction recognized in the first quarter of 2009.

Total noninterest expense increased $71 million
    (8.8 percent) in 2010, compared with 2009. The increase in
    noninterest expense was driven by higher total compensation and
    employee benefits expense, increased costs related to affordable
    housing and other tax advantaged projects and

U.S. BANCORP   59 

Table of Contents   

higher litigation-related expenses, partially offset by the FDIC
    special assessment in 2009.

Income taxes are assessed to each line of business at a
    managerial tax rate of 36.4 percent with the residual tax
    expense or benefit to arrive at the consolidated effective tax
    rate included in Treasury and Corporate Support.

NON-REGULATORY
    CAPITAL RATIOS

In addition to capital ratios defined by banking regulators, the
    Company considers various other measures when evaluating capital
    utilization and adequacy, including:

Tangible common equity to tangible assets,

Tier 1 common equity to risk-weighted assets, and

Tangible common equity to risk-weighted assets.

These non-regulatory capital ratios are viewed by management as
    useful additional methods of reflecting the level of capital
    available to withstand unexpected market conditions.
    Additionally, presentation of these ratios allows  
    readers to compare the Company s capitalization to other
    financial services companies. These ratios differ from capital
    ratios defined by banking regulators principally in that the
    numerator excludes trust preferred securities and preferred
    stock, the nature and extent of which varies among different
    financial services companies. These ratios are not defined in
    generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) or
    federal banking regulations. As a result, these non-regulatory
    capital ratios disclosed by the Company may be considered
    non-GAAP financial measures.

Because there are no standardized definitions for these
    non-regulatory capital ratios, the Company s calculation
    methods may differ from those used by other financial services
    companies. Also, there may be limits in the usefulness of these
    measures to investors. As a result, the Company encourages
    readers to consider the consolidated financial statements and
    other financial information contained in this report in their
    entirety, and not to rely on any single financial measure.

The following table shows the Company s calculation of the
    non-regulatory capital ratios:

Note:
    Tier 1 capital and Tier 1 common equity amounts are
    presented using qualifying capital elements as specified in
    current regulatory guidance ( Basel I ) and do
    not reflect adjustments for changes to those elements proposed
    in December 2010.  

60     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

ACCOUNTING CHANGES

Note 2 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    discusses accounting standards adopted in 2010, as well as
    accounting standards recently issued but not yet required to be
    adopted and the expected impact of these changes in accounting
    standards. To the extent the adoption of new accounting
    standards materially affects the Company s financial
    condition or results of operations, the impacts are discussed in
    the applicable section(s) of the Management s Discussion
    and Analysis and the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING
    POLICIES

The accounting and reporting policies of the Company comply with
    accounting principles generally accepted in the United States
    and conform to general practices within the banking industry.
    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with GAAP
    requires management to make estimates and assumptions. The
    Company s financial position and results of operations can
    be affected by these estimates and assumptions, which are
    integral to understanding the Company s financial
    statements. Critical accounting policies are those policies
    management believes are the most important to the portrayal of
    the Company s financial condition and results, and require
    management to make estimates that are difficult, subjective or
    complex. Most accounting policies are not considered by
    management to be critical accounting policies. Several factors
    are considered in determining whether or not a policy is
    critical in the preparation of financial statements. These
    factors include, among other things, whether the estimates are
    significant to the financial statements, the nature of the
    estimates, the ability to readily validate the estimates with
    other information (including third-parties sources or available
    prices), and sensitivity of the estimates to changes in economic
    conditions and whether alternative accounting methods may be
    utilized under GAAP. Management has discussed the development
    and the selection of critical accounting policies with the
    Company s Audit Committee.

Significant accounting policies are discussed in Note 1 of
    the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Those policies
    considered to be critical accounting policies are described
    below.

Allowance for
    Credit Losses     The
    allowance for credit losses is established to provide for
    probable losses incurred in the Company s credit portfolio.
    The methods utilized to estimate the allowance for credit
    losses, key assumptions and quantitative and qualitative
    information considered by management in determining the adequacy
    of the allowance for credit losses are discussed in the
     Credit Risk Management  section.

Management s evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance
    for credit losses is often the most critical of accounting
    estimates for a banking institution. It is an inherently
    subjective process impacted by many factors as discussed
    throughout the Management s Discussion and Analysis section
    of the Annual Report. Although risk management practices,
    methodologies and other tools are utilized to determine each
    element of the allowance, degrees of imprecision exist in these
    measurement tools due in part to subjective judgments involved
    and an inherent lagging of credit quality measurements relative
    to the stage of the business cycle. Even determining the stage
    of the business cycle is highly subjective. As discussed in the
     Analysis and Determination of Allowance for Credit
    Losses  section, management considers the effect of
    imprecision and many other factors in determining the allowance
    for credit losses. If not considered, incurred losses in the
    portfolio related to imprecision and other subjective factors
    could have a dramatic adverse impact on the liquidity and
    financial viability of a bank.

Given the many subjective factors affecting the credit
    portfolio, changes in the allowance for credit losses may not
    directly coincide with changes in the risk ratings of the credit
    portfolio reflected in the risk rating process. This is in part
    due to the timing of the risk rating process in relation to
    changes in the business cycle, the exposure and mix of loans
    within risk rating categories, levels of nonperforming loans and
    the timing of charge-offs and recoveries. For example, the
    amount of loans within specific risk ratings may change,
    providing a leading indicator of improving credit quality, while
    nonperforming loans and net charge-offs continue at elevated
    levels. Also, inherent loss ratios, determined through migration
    analysis and historical loss performance over the estimated
    business cycle of a loan, may not change to the same degree as
    net charge-offs. Because risk ratings and inherent loss ratios
    primarily drive the allowance specifically allocated to
    commercial loans, the amount of the allowance for commercial and
    commercial real estate loans might decline; however, the degree
    of change differs somewhat from the level of changes in
    nonperforming loans and net charge-offs. Also, management would
    maintain an adequate allowance for credit losses by increasing
    the allowance during periods of economic uncertainty or changes
    in the business cycle.

Some factors considered in determining the adequacy of the
    allowance for credit losses are quantifiable while other

U.S. BANCORP   61 

Table of Contents   

factors require qualitative judgment. Management conducts an
    analysis with respect to the accuracy of risk ratings and the
    volatility of inherent losses, and utilizes this analysis along
    with qualitative factors, including uncertainty in the economy
    from changes in unemployment rates, the level of bankruptcies
    and concentration risks, including risks associated with the
    weakened housing market and highly leveraged enterprise-value
    credits, in determining the overall level of the allowance for
    credit losses. The Company s determination of the allowance
    for commercial and commercial real estate loans is sensitive to
    the assigned credit risk ratings and inherent loss rates at
    December 31, 2010. In the event that 10 percent of
    loans within these portfolios experienced downgrades of two risk
    categories, the allowance for commercial and commercial real
    estate would increase by approximately $319 million at
    December 31, 2010. In the event that inherent loss or
    estimated loss rates for these portfolios increased by
    10 percent, the allowance determined for commercial and
    commercial real estate would increase by approximately
    $198 million at December 31, 2010. The Company s
    determination of the allowance for residential and retail loans
    is sensitive to changes in estimated loss rates. In the event
    that estimated loss rates increased by 10 percent, the
    allowance for residential mortgages and retail loans would
    increase by approximately $274 million at December 31,
    2010. Because several quantitative and qualitative factors are
    considered in determining the allowance for credit losses, these
    sensitivity analyses do not necessarily reflect the nature and
    extent of future changes in the allowance for credit losses.
    They are intended to provide insights into the impact of adverse
    changes in risk rating and inherent losses and do not imply any
    expectation of future deterioration in the risk rating or loss
    rates. Given current processes employed by the Company,
    management believes the risk ratings and inherent loss rates
    currently assigned are appropriate. It is possible that others,
    given the same information, may at any point in time reach
    different reasonable conclusions that could be significant to
    the Company s financial statements. Refer to the
     Analysis and Determination of the Allowance for Credit
    Losses  section for further information.

Fair Value
    Estimates     A portion of
    the Company s assets and liabilities are carried at fair
    value on the Consolidated Balance Sheet, with changes in fair
    value recorded either through earnings or other comprehensive
    income (loss) in accordance with applicable accounting
    principles generally accepted in the United States. These
    include all of the Company s
     available-for-sale 
    securities, derivatives and other trading instruments, MSRs and
    certain mortgage loans held for sale. The estimation of fair
    value also affects other loans held for sale, which are recorded
    at the lower-of-cost-or-fair value. The determination of fair
    value is important for certain other assets that are
    periodically evaluated for impairment using fair value
    estimates, including goodwill and other intangible assets,
    assets acquired in business combinations, impaired loans, OREO
    and other repossessed assets.

Fair value is generally defined as the exit price at which an
    asset or liability could be exchanged in a current transaction
    between willing, unrelated parties, other than in a forced or
    liquidation sale. Fair value is based on quoted market prices in
    an active market, or if market prices are not available, is
    estimated using models employing techniques such as matrix
    pricing or discounting expected cash flows. The significant
    assumptions used in the models, which include assumptions for
    interest rates, discount rates, prepayments and credit losses,
    are independently verified against observable market data where
    possible. Where observable market data is not available, the
    estimate of fair value becomes more subjective and involves a
    high degree of judgment. In this circumstance, fair value is
    estimated based on management s judgment regarding the
    value that market participants would assign to the asset or
    liability. This valuation process takes into consideration
    factors such as market illiquidity. Imprecision in estimating
    these factors can impact the amount recorded on the balance
    sheet for a particular asset or liability with related impacts
    to earnings or other comprehensive income (loss).

When available, trading and
     available-for-sale 
    securities are valued based on quoted market prices. However,
    certain securities are traded less actively and therefore, may
    not be able to be valued based on quoted market prices. The
    determination of fair value may require benchmarking to similar
    instruments or performing a discounted cash flow analysis using
    estimates of future cash flows and prepayment, interest and
    default rates. An example is non-agency residential
    mortgage-backed securities. For more information on investment
    securities, refer to Note 5 of the Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

As few derivative contracts are listed on an exchange, the
    majority of the Company s derivative positions are valued
    using valuation techniques that use readily observable market
    parameters. Certain derivatives, however, must be valued using
    techniques that include unobservable parameters. For these
    instruments, the significant assumptions must be estimated and
    therefore, are subject to judgment. These instruments are
    normally traded less

62     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

actively. Note 20 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements provides a summary of the Company s derivative
    positions.

Refer to Note 21 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements for additional information regarding estimations of
    fair value.

Purchased Loans
    and Related Indemnification Assets
       In accordance with
    applicable authoritative accounting guidance effective for the
    Company beginning January 1, 2009, all purchased loans and
    related indemnification assets are recorded at fair value at
    date of purchase. The initial valuation of these loans and the
    related indemnification assets requires management to make
    subjective judgments concerning estimates about how the acquired
    loans will perform in the future using valuation methods
    including discounted cash flow analysis and independent
    third-party appraisals. Factors that may significantly affect
    the initial valuation include, among others, market-based and
    industry data related to expected changes in interest rates,
    assumptions related to probability and severity of credit
    losses, estimated timing of credit losses including the
    foreclosure and liquidation of collateral, expected prepayment
    rates, required or anticipated loan modifications, unfunded loan
    commitments, the specific terms and provisions of any loss
    sharing agreements, and specific industry and market conditions
    that may impact discount rates and independent third-party
    appraisals.

On an ongoing basis, the accounting for purchased loans and
    related indemnification assets follows applicable authoritative
    accounting guidance for purchased non-impaired loans and
    purchased impaired loans. Refer to Note 1 and Note 6
    of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    information. In addition, refer to the  Analysis and
    Determination of the Allowance for Credit Losses  section
    for information on the determination of the required allowance
    for credit losses, if any, for these loans.

Mortgage
    Servicing Rights     MSRs
    are capitalized as separate assets when loans are sold and
    servicing is retained or may be purchased from others. MSRs are
    initially recorded at fair value and remeasured at each
    subsequent reporting date. Because MSRs do not trade in an
    active market with readily observable prices, the Company
    determines the fair value by estimating the present value of the
    asset s future cash flows utilizing market-based prepayment
    rates, discount rates, and other assumptions validated through
    comparison to trade information, industry surveys and
    independent third-party valuations. Changes in the fair value of
    MSRs are recorded in earnings during the period in which they
    occur. Risks inherent in the MSRs  valuation include higher
    than expected prepayment rates
     and/or 
    delayed receipt of cash flows. The Company may utilize
    derivatives, including interest rate swaps, forward commitments
    to buy residential mortgage loans, and futures and options
    contracts, to mitigate the valuation risk. The estimated
    sensitivity to changes in interest rates of the fair value of
    the MSRs portfolio and the related derivative instruments at
    December 31, 2010, to an immediate 25 and 50 bps
    downward movement in interest rates would be a decrease of
    approximately $5 million and an increase of approximately
    $6 million, respectively. An upward movement in interest
    rates at December 31, 2010, of 25 and 50 bps would
    increase the value of the MSRs and related derivative
    instruments by approximately $5 million and
    $1 million, respectively. Refer to Note 10 of the
    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for additional
    information regarding MSRs.

Goodwill and
    Other Intangibles     The
    Company records all assets and liabilities acquired in purchase
    acquisitions, including goodwill and other intangibles, at fair
    value. Goodwill and indefinite-lived assets are not amortized
    but are subject, at a minimum, to annual tests for impairment.
    In certain situations, interim impairment tests may be required
    if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely
    than not reduce the fair value of a reporting segment below its
    carrying amount. Other intangible assets are amortized over
    their estimated useful lives using straight-line and accelerated
    methods and are subject to impairment if events or circumstances
    indicate a possible inability to realize the carrying amount.

The initial recognition of goodwill and other intangible assets
    and subsequent impairment analysis require management to make
    subjective judgments concerning estimates of how the acquired
    assets will perform in the future using valuation methods
    including discounted cash flow analysis. Additionally, estimated
    cash flows may extend beyond ten years and, by their nature, are
    difficult to determine over an extended timeframe. Events and
    factors that may significantly affect the estimates include,
    among others, competitive forces, customer behaviors and
    attrition, changes in revenue growth trends, cost structures,
    technology, changes in discount rates and specific industry and
    market conditions. In determining the reasonableness of cash
    flow estimates, the Company reviews historical performance of
    the underlying assets or similar assets in an

U.S. BANCORP   63 

Table of Contents   

effort to assess and validate assumptions utilized in its
    estimates.

In assessing the fair value of reporting units, the Company may
    consider the stage of the current business cycle and potential
    changes in market conditions in estimating the timing and extent
    of future cash flows. Also, management often utilizes other
    information to validate the reasonableness of its valuations,
    including public market comparables, and multiples of recent
    mergers and acquisitions of similar businesses. Valuation
    multiples may be based on revenue,
     price-to-earnings 
    and tangible capital ratios of comparable public companies and
    business segments. These multiples may be adjusted to consider
    competitive differences, including size, operating leverage and
    other factors. The carrying amount of a reporting unit is
    determined based on the capital required to support the
    reporting unit s activities, including its tangible and
    intangible assets. The determination of a reporting unit s
    capital allocation requires management judgment and considers
    many factors, including the regulatory capital regulations and
    capital characteristics of comparable public companies in
    relevant industry sectors. In certain circumstances, management
    will engage a third-party to independently validate its
    assessment of the fair value of its reporting units.

The Company s annual assessment of potential goodwill
    impairment was completed during the second quarter of 2010.
    Based on the results of this assessment, no goodwill impairment
    was recognized. Because of current economic conditions the
    Company continues to monitor goodwill and other intangible
    assets for impairment indicators throughout the year. The
    Company does not expect recent legislation will result in
    goodwill impairment.

Income Taxes
       The Company estimates
    income tax expense based on amounts expected to be owed to
    various tax jurisdictions. Currently, the Company files tax
    returns in approximately 222 federal, state and local domestic
    jurisdictions and 13 foreign jurisdictions. The estimated income
    tax expense is reported in the Consolidated Statement of Income.
    Accrued taxes represent the net estimated amount due to or to be
    received from taxing jurisdictions either currently or in the
    future and are reported in other assets or other liabilities on
    the Consolidated Balance Sheet. In estimating accrued taxes, the
    Company assesses the relative merits and risks of the
    appropriate tax treatment considering statutory, judicial and
    regulatory guidance in the context of the tax position. Because
    of the complexity of tax laws and regulations, interpretation
    can be difficult and subject to legal judgment given specific
    facts and circumstances. It is possible that others, given the
    same information, may at any point in time reach different
    reasonable conclusions regarding the estimated amounts of
    accrued taxes.

Changes in the estimate of accrued taxes occur periodically due
    to changes in tax rates, interpretations of tax laws, the status
    of examinations being conducted by various taxing authorities,
    and newly enacted statutory, judicial and regulatory guidance
    that impacts the relative merits and risks of tax positions.
    These changes, when they occur, affect accrued taxes and can be
    significant to the operating results of the Company. Refer to
    Note 19 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
    for additional information regarding income taxes.

CONTROLS AND
    PROCEDURES

Under the supervision and with the participation of the
    Company s management, including its principal executive
    officer and principal financial officer, the Company has
    evaluated the effectiveness of the design and operation of its
    disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(e) 
    and
     15d-15(e) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange
    Act )). Based upon this evaluation, the principal executive
    officer and principal financial officer have concluded that, as
    of the end of the period covered by this report, the
    Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective.

During the most recently completed fiscal quarter, there was no
    change made in the Company s internal controls over
    financial reporting (as defined in
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Exchange Act) that has materially affected, or is
    reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s
    internal control over financial reporting.

The annual report of the Company s management on internal
    control over financial reporting is provided on page 65.
    The attestation report of Ernst   Young LLP, the
    Company s independent accountants, regarding the
    Company s internal control over financial reporting is
    provided on page 67.

64     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Report
    of Management

Responsibility for the financial statements and other
    information presented throughout this Annual Report rests with
    the management of U.S. Bancorp. The Company believes the
    consolidated financial statements have been prepared in
    conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States and present the substance of transactions based on
    the circumstances and management s best estimates and
    judgment.

In meeting its responsibilities for the reliability of the
    financial statements, management is responsible for establishing
    and maintaining an adequate system of internal control over
    financial reporting as defined by
     Rules 13a-15(f) 
    and
     15d-15(f) 
    under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. The Company s
    system of internal control is designed to provide reasonable
    assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and
    the preparation of publicly filed financial statements in
    accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
    United States.

To test compliance, the Company carries out an extensive audit
    program. This program includes a review for compliance with
    written policies and procedures and a comprehensive review of
    the adequacy and effectiveness of the system of internal
    control. Although control procedures are designed and tested, it
    must be recognized that there are limits inherent in all systems
    of internal control and, therefore, errors and irregularities
    may nevertheless occur. Also, estimates and judgments are
    required to assess and balance the relative cost and expected
    benefits of the controls. Projection of any evaluation of
    effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that
    controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions,
    or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures
    may deteriorate.

The Board of Directors of the Company has an Audit Committee
    composed of directors who are independent of U.S. Bancorp.
    The committee meets periodically with management, the internal
    auditors and the independent accountants to consider audit
    results and to discuss internal accounting control, auditing and
    financial reporting matters.

Management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s
    system of internal control over financial reporting as of
    December 31, 2010. In making this assessment, management
    used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
    Organizations of the Treadway Commission in its Internal
    Control-Integrated Framework. Based on our assessment and those
    criteria, management believes the Company designed and
    maintained effective internal control over financial reporting
    as of December 31, 2010.

The Company s independent accountants, Ernst  
    Young LLP, have been engaged to render an independent
    professional opinion on the financial statements and issue an
    attestation report on the Company s internal control over
    financial reporting. Their opinion on the financial statements
    appearing on page 66 and their attestation on internal
    control over financial reporting appearing on page 67 are
    based on procedures conducted in accordance with auditing
    standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board
    (United States).

U.S. BANCORP   65 

Table of Contents   

Report
    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    on the Consolidated Financial Statements

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
    U.S. Bancorp as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the
    related consolidated statements of income, shareholders 
    equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
    ended December 31, 2010. These financial statements are the
    responsibility of U.S. Bancorp s management. Our
    responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
    statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
    free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
    test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
    the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the
    accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
    management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
    statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
    reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
    present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated
    financial position of U.S. Bancorp at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, and the consolidated results of its operations
    and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period
    ended December 31, 2010, in conformity with
    U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
    U.S. Bancorp s internal control over financial
    reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on criteria
    established in Internal Control   Integrated Framework
    issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the
    Treadway Commission and our report dated February 28, 2011
    expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 28, 2011

66     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Report
    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp:

We have audited U.S. Bancorp s internal control over
    financial reporting as of December 31, 2010, based on
    criteria established in Internal Control   Integrated
    Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of
    the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria).
    U.S. Bancorp s management is responsible for
    maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting,
    and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control
    over financial reporting included in the accompanying Report of
    Management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
    U.S. Bancorp s internal control over financial
    reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those
    standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
    reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control
    over financial reporting was maintained in all material
    respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of
    internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk
    that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the
    design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on
    the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we
    considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our
    audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company s internal control over financial reporting is a
    process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
    reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of
    financial statements for external purposes in accordance with
    generally accepted accounting principles. A company s
    internal control over financial reporting includes those
    policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance
    of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
    reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the
    company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions
    are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial
    statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
    principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
    are being made only in accordance with authorizations of
    management and directors of the company; and (3) provide
    reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
    unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the
    company s assets that could have a material effect on the
    financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over
    financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.
    Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
    periods are subject to the risk that controls may become
    inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
    of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, U.S. Bancorp maintained, in all material
    respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as
    of December 31, 2010, based on the COSO criteria . 

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
    Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
    consolidated balance sheets of U.S. Bancorp as of
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, and the related consolidated
    statements of income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows
    for each of the three years in the period ended
    December 31, 2010 and our report dated February 28,
    2011 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 28, 2011

U.S. BANCORP   67 

Table of Contents   

U.S.
    Bancorp 
     Consolidated Balance Sheet

See Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.  

68     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

U.S.
    Bancorp 
     Consolidated Statement of Income

See Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.  

U.S. BANCORP   69 

Table of Contents   

U.S.
    Bancorp 
     Consolidated Statement of Shareholders 
    Equity

See Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.  

70     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

U.S.
    Bancorp 
     Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows

See Notes to
    Consolidated Financial Statements.  

U.S. BANCORP   71 

Table of Contents   

Notes
    to Consolidated Financial Statements

Note 1       SIGNIFICANT
    ACCOUNTING POLICIES

U.S. Bancorp is a multi-state financial services holding
    company headquartered in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
    U.S. Bancorp and its subsidiaries (the  Company )
    provide a full range of financial services, including lending
    and depository services through banking offices principally in
    the Midwest and West regions of the United States. The Company
    also engages in credit card, merchant, and ATM processing,
    mortgage banking, insurance, trust and investment management,
    brokerage, and leasing activities principally in domestic
    markets.

Basis of
    Presentation     The
    consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
    Company and its subsidiaries and all variable interest entities
    ( VIEs ) for which the Company has both the power to
    direct the activities of the VIE that most significantly impact
    the VIE s economic performance, and the obligation to
    absorb losses or right to receive benefits of the VIE that could
    potentially be significant to the VIE. Consolidation eliminates
    all significant intercompany accounts and transactions. Certain
    items in prior periods have been reclassified to conform to the
    current presentation.

Uses of
    Estimates     The
    preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
    accepted accounting principles requires management to make
    estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in
    the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual
    experience could differ from those estimates.

BUSINESS
    SEGMENTS

Within the Company, financial performance is measured by major
    lines of business based on the products and services provided to
    customers through its distribution channels. The Company has
    five reportable operating segments:

Wholesale
    Banking and Commercial Real Estate
        Wholesale Banking
    and Commercial Real Estate offers lending, equipment finance and
    small-ticket leasing, depository, treasury management, capital
    markets, foreign exchange, international trade services and
    other financial services to middle market, large corporate,
    commercial real estate, financial institution and public sector
    clients.

Consumer and
    Small Business Banking
        Consumer and Small
    Business Banking delivers products and services through banking
    offices, telephone servicing and sales, on-line services, direct
    mail and ATM processing. It encompasses community banking,
    metropolitan banking, in-store banking, small business banking,
    consumer lending, mortgage banking, consumer finance, workplace
    banking, student banking and
     24-hour 
    banking.

Wealth
    Management and Securities Services
        Wealth Management
    and Securities Services provides private banking, financial
    advisory services, investment management, retail brokerage
    services, insurance, trust, custody and mutual fund servicing
    through five businesses: Wealth Management, Corporate Trust
    Services, U.S. Bancorp Asset Management, Institutional
    Trust   Custody and Fund Services.

Payment
    Services     Payment
    Services includes consumer and business credit cards,
    stored-value cards, debit cards, corporate and purchasing card
    services, consumer lines of credit and merchant processing.

Treasury and
    Corporate Support
        Treasury and
    Corporate Support includes the Company s investment
    portfolios, covered commercial and commercial real estate
    credit-impaired loans and related other real estate
    ( OREO ), funding, capital management, asset
    securitization, interest rate risk management, the net effect of
    transfer pricing related to average balances and the residual
    aggregate of those expenses associated with corporate activities
    that are managed on a consolidated basis.

Segment
    Results     Accounting
    policies for the lines of business are the same as those used in
    preparation of the consolidated financial statements with
    respect to activities specifically attributable to each business
    line. However, the preparation of business line results requires
    management to allocate funding costs and benefits, expenses and
    other financial elements to each line of business. For details
    of these methodologies and segment results, see  Basis for
    Financial Presentation  and Table 22  Line of Business
    Financial Performance  included in Management s
    Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated by reference into
    these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

SECURITIES

Realized gains or losses on securities are determined on a trade
    date basis based on the specific amortized cost of the
    investments sold.

Trading
    Securities     Debt and
    equity securities held for resale are classified as trading
    securities and reported at fair value.

72     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Changes in fair value and realized gains or losses are reported
    in noninterest income.

Available-for-sale 
    Securities     These
    securities are not trading securities but may be sold before
    maturity in response to changes in the Company s interest
    rate risk profile, funding needs, demand for collateralized
    deposits by public entities or other reasons.
     Available-for-sale 
    securities are carried at fair value with unrealized net gains
    or losses reported within other comprehensive income (loss) in
    shareholders  equity. Declines in fair value related to
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment, if any, are reported in noninterest income.

Held-to-maturity 
    Securities     Debt
    securities for which the Company has the positive intent and
    ability to hold to maturity are reported at historical cost
    adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of
    discounts. Declines in fair value related to
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment, if any, are reported in noninterest income.

Securities
    Purchased Under Agreements to Resell and Securities Sold Under
    Agreements to Repurchase
        Securities purchased
    under agreements to resell and securities sold under agreements
    to repurchase are accounted for as collateralized financing
    transactions and are recorded at the amounts at which the
    securities were acquired or sold, plus accrued interest. The
    fair value of collateral received is continually monitored and
    additional collateral is obtained or requested to be returned to
    the Company as deemed appropriate.

EQUITY
    INVESTMENTS IN OPERATING ENTITIES

Equity investments in public entities in which the
    Company s ownership is less than 20 percent are
    accounted for as
     available-for-sale 
    securities and are carried at fair value. Similar investments in
    private entities are accounted for using the cost method.
    Investments in entities where the Company has a significant
    influence (generally between 20 percent and 50 percent
    ownership) but does not control the entity are accounted for
    using the equity method. Investments in limited partnerships and
    limited liability companies where the Company s ownership
    interest is greater than 5 percent are accounted for using
    the equity method. All equity investments are evaluated for
    impairment at least annually and more frequently if certain
    criteria are met.

LOANS

The Company s accounting methods for loans differ depending
    on whether the loans are originated or purchased, and for
    purchased loans, whether the loans were acquired at a discount
    related to evidence of credit deterioration since date of
    origination.

Originated
    Loans Held for Investment
        Loans the Company
    originates are reported at the principal amount outstanding, net
    of unearned income, net deferred loan fees or costs, and any
    direct principal charge-offs. Interest income is accrued on the
    unpaid principal balances as earned. Loan and commitment fees
    and certain direct loan origination costs are deferred and
    recognized over the life of the loan
     and/or 
    commitment period as yield adjustments.

Purchased
    Loans     All purchased
    loans (non-impaired and impaired) acquired on or after
    January 1, 2009 are initially measured at fair value as of
    the acquisition date in accordance with applicable authoritative
    accounting guidance. Credit discounts are included in the
    determination of fair value. An allowance for credit losses is
    not recorded at the acquisition date for loans purchased on or
    after January 1, 2009. In accordance with applicable
    authoritative accounting guidance, purchased non-impaired loans
    acquired in a business combination prior to January 1, 2009
    were generally recorded at the predecessor s carrying value
    including an allowance for credit losses.

In determining the acquisition date fair value of purchased
    impaired loans, and in subsequent accounting, the Company
    generally aggregates purchased consumer loans and certain
    smaller balance commercial loans into pools of loans with common
    risk characteristics, while accounting for larger balance
    commercial loans individually. Expected cash flows at the
    purchase date in excess of the fair value of loans are recorded
    as interest income over the life of the loans if the timing and
    amount of the future cash flows is reasonably estimable.
    Subsequent to the purchase date, increases in cash flows over
    those expected at the purchase date are recognized as interest
    income prospectively. The present value of any decreases in
    expected cash flows after the purchase date is recognized by
    recording an allowance for credit losses. Revolving loans,
    including lines of credit and credit cards loans, and leases are
    excluded from purchased impaired loans accounting.

For purchased loans acquired on or after January 1, 2009
    that are not deemed impaired at acquisition, credit discounts
    representing the principal losses expected over the life of the
    loan are a component of the initial fair value. Subsequent to
    the purchase date, the methods utilized to estimate the required
    allowance for credit losses for these loans is similar to
    originated loans; however, the Company records a provision for
    credit losses only when the required allowance exceeds any
    remaining credit discounts. The remaining differences between

U.S. BANCORP   73 

Table of Contents   

the purchase price and the unpaid principal balance at the date
    of acquisition are recorded in interest income over the life of
    the loans.

Covered Assets
        Loans covered under
    loss sharing or similar credit protection agreements with the
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation ( FDIC ) are
    reported in loans along with the related indemnification asset.
    Foreclosed real estate covered under similar agreements is
    recorded in other assets. In accordance with applicable
    authoritative accounting guidance effective for the Company
    beginning January 1, 2009, all purchased loans and related
    indemnification assets are recorded at fair value at date of
    purchase.

Commitments to
    Extend Credit
        Unfunded residential
    mortgage loan commitments entered into in connection with
    mortgage banking activities intended to be held for sale are
    considered derivatives and recorded on the balance sheet at fair
    value with changes in fair value recorded in income. All other
    unfunded loan commitments are generally related to providing
    credit facilities to customers of the Company and are not
    considered derivatives. For loans purchased on or after
    January 1, 2009, the fair value of the unfunded credit
    commitments is considered in the determination of the fair value
    of the loans recorded at the date of acquisition. Reserves for
    credit exposure on all other unfunded credit commitments are
    recorded in other liabilities.

Credit Quality
        The quality of the
    Company s loan portfolios is assessed as a function of net
    credit losses, levels of nonperforming assets and delinquencies,
    and credit quality ratings as defined by the Company. The
    Company classifies its loan portfolios by these credit quality
    ratings on a quarterly basis. These ratings include: pass,
    special mention and classified, and are an important part of the
    Company s overall credit risk management process and
    evaluation of the allowance for credit losses. Loans with a pass
    rating represent those not classified on the Company s
    rating scale for problem credits, as minimal credit risk has
    been identified. Special mention loans are those that have a
    potential weakness deserving management s close attention.
    Classified loans are those where a well-defined weakness has
    been identified that may put full collection of contractual cash
    flows at risk. It is possible that others, given the same
    information, may reach different reasonable conclusions
    regarding the credit quality rating classification of specific
    loans.

Allowance for
    Credit Losses     The
    allowance for credit losses reserves for probable and estimable
    losses incurred in the Company s loan and lease portfolio
    and includes certain amounts that do not represent loss exposure
    to the Company because those losses are recoverable under loss
    sharing agreements with the FDIC. Management evaluates the
    allowance each quarter to ensure it appropriately reserves for
    incurred losses. Several factors are taken into consideration in
    evaluating the allowance for credit losses, including the risk
    profile of the portfolios, loan net charge-offs during the
    period, the level of nonperforming assets, accruing loans
    90 days or more past due, delinquency ratios and changes in
    loan balances classified as troubled debt restructurings
    ( TDRs ). Management also considers the uncertainty
    related to certain industry sectors, and the extent of credit
    exposure to specific borrowers within the portfolio. In
    addition, concentration risks associated with commercial real
    estate and the mix of loans, including credit cards, loans
    originated through the consumer finance division and residential
    mortgage balances, and their relative credit risks, are
    evaluated. Finally, the Company considers current economic
    conditions that might impact the portfolio. This evaluation is
    inherently subjective as it requires estimates, including
    amounts of future cash collections expected on nonaccrual loans,
    which may be susceptible to significant change. The allowance
    for credit losses relating to originated loans that have become
    impaired is based on expected cash flows discounted using the
    original effective interest rate, the observable market price,
    or the fair value of the collateral for certain
    collateral-dependent loans. To the extent credit deterioration
    occurs on purchased loans after the date of acquisition, the
    Company records an allowance for credit losses.

The Company determines the amount of the allowance required for
    certain sectors based on relative risk characteristics of the
    loan portfolio. The allowance recorded for commercial loans is
    generally based on quarterly reviews of individual credit
    relationships and an analysis of the migration of commercial
    loans and actual loss experience. The allowance recorded for
    homogeneous commercial and consumer loans is based on an
    analysis of product mix, risk characteristics of the portfolio,
    bankruptcy experiences, and historical losses, adjusted for
    current trends, for each homogenous category or group of loans.
    The allowance is increased through provisions charged to
    operating earnings and reduced by net charge-offs.

The Company also assesses the credit risk associated with
    off-balance sheet loan commitments, letters of credit, and
    derivatives. Credit risk associated with derivatives is
    reflected in the fair values recorded for those positions. The
    liability for off-balance sheet credit exposure related to loan
    commitments and other credit guarantees is included in

74     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

other liabilities. Because business processes and credit risks
    associated with unfunded credit commitments are essentially the
    same as for loans, the Company utilizes similar processes to
    estimate its liability for unfunded credit commitments.

Nonaccrual
    Loans and Loan Charge-Offs
        Generally,
    commercial loans (including impaired loans) are placed on
    nonaccrual status when the collection of interest or principal
    has become 90 days past due or is otherwise considered
    doubtful. When a loan is placed on nonaccrual status, unpaid
    accrued interest is reversed. Future interest payments are
    generally applied against principal. Commercial loans are
    generally fully or partially charged down to the fair value of
    collateral securing the loan, less costs to sell, when the loan
    is deemed to be uncollectible, repayment is deemed beyond
    reasonable time frames, the borrower has filed for bankruptcy,
    or the loan is unsecured and greater than six months past due.
    Loans secured by 1-4 family properties are generally charged
    down to fair value, less costs to sell, at 180 days past due,
    and placed on nonaccrual status in instances where a partial
    charge-off occurs. Revolving consumer lines and credit cards are
    charged off at 180 days past due and closed-end consumer loans,
    other than loans secured by 1-4 family properties, are charged
    off at 120 days past due and are, therefore, generally not
    placed on nonaccrual status. Certain retail customers having
    financial difficulties may have the terms of their credit card
    and other loan agreements modified to require only principal
    payments and, as such, are reported as nonaccrual.

Generally, purchased impaired loans are considered accruing
    loans. However, the timing and amount of future cash flows for
    some loans is not reasonably estimable. Those loans are
    classified as nonaccrual loans and interest income is not
    recognized until the timing and amount of the future cash flows
    can be reasonably estimated.

Restructured
    Loans     In certain
    circumstances, the Company may modify the terms of a loan to
    maximize the collection of amounts due when a borrower is
    experiencing financial difficulties or is expected to experience
    difficulties in the near-term. In most cases the modification is
    either a concessionary reduction in interest rate, extension of
    the maturity date or reduction in the principal balance that
    would otherwise not be considered. Concessionary modifications
    are classified as TDRs unless the modification is short-term, or
    results in only an insignificant delay or shortfall in the
    payments to be received. Many of the Company s TDRs are
    determined on a
     case-by-case 
    basis in connection with ongoing loan collection processes.
    However, the Company has also implemented certain restructuring
    programs that may result in TDRs. The consumer finance division
    has a mortgage loan restructuring program where certain
    qualifying borrowers facing an interest rate reset who are
    current in their repayment status, are allowed to retain the
    lower of their existing interest rate or the market interest
    rate as of their interest reset date. The Company also
    participates in the U.S. Department of the Treasury Home
    Affordable Modification Program ( HAMP ). HAMP gives
    qualifying homeowners an opportunity to refinance into more
    affordable monthly payments, with the U.S. Department of
    the Treasury compensating the Company for a portion of the
    reduction in monthly amounts due from borrowers participating in
    this program. For credit card loan agreements, such
    modifications may include canceling the customer s
    available line of credit on the credit card, reducing the
    interest rate on the card, and placing the customer on a fixed
    payment plan not exceeding 60 months. The allowance for
    credit losses on TDRs is determined by discounting the
    restructured cash flows at the original effective rate of the
    loan before modification. Loans restructured at a rate equal to
    or greater than that of a new loan with comparable risk at the
    time the loan agreement is modified are excluded from TDR
    disclosures in years subsequent to the restructuring if the
    borrowers are in compliance with the modified terms.

Generally, a nonaccrual loan that is restructured remains on
    nonaccrual for a period of six months after the restructuring
    date to demonstrate the borrower can meet the restructured
    terms. However, performance prior to the restructuring, or
    significant events that coincide with the restructuring, are
    considered in assessing whether the borrower can meet the new
    terms and in rare circumstances may result in the loan being
    returned to accrual status at the time of restructuring or after
    a shorter performance period. If the borrower s ability to
    meet the revised payment schedule is not reasonably assured, the
    loan remains classified as a nonaccrual loan.

Impaired Loans
        A loan is considered
    to be impaired when, based on current information and events, it
    is probable the Company will be unable to collect all amounts
    due (both interest and principal) according to the contractual
    terms of the loan agreement.

Impaired loans include certain nonaccrual commercial loans and
    loans for which a charge-off has been recorded based upon the
    fair value of the underlying collateral. Impaired loans also
    include loans that have been modified as TDRs as a concession to
    borrowers experiencing financial difficulties. Interest income
    is recognized on impaired loans

U.S. BANCORP   75 

Table of Contents   

under the modified terms and conditions if the borrower has
    demonstrated repayment performance at a level commensurate with
    the modified terms over several payment cycles. Purchased credit
    impaired loans are not reported as impaired loans as long as
    they continue to perform at least as well as expected at
    acquisition.

Leases
        The Company s
    lease portfolio consists of both direct financing and leveraged
    leases. The net investment in direct financing leases is the sum
    of all minimum lease payments and estimated residual values,
    less unearned income. Unearned income is recorded in interest
    income over the terms of the leases to produce a level yield.

The investment in leveraged leases is the sum of all lease
    payments, less nonrecourse debt payments, plus estimated
    residual values, less unearned income. Income from leveraged
    leases is recognized over the term of the leases based on the
    unrecovered equity investment.

Residual values on leased assets are reviewed regularly for
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment. Residual valuations for retail automobile leases are
    based on independent assessments of expected used car sale
    prices at the
     end-of-term. 
    Impairment tests are conducted based on these valuations
    considering the probability of the lessee returning the asset to
    the Company, re-marketing efforts, insurance coverage and
    ancillary fees and costs. Valuations for commercial leases are
    based upon external or internal management appraisals. When
    there is impairment of the Company s interest in the
    residual value of a leased asset, the carrying value is reduced
    to the estimated fair value with the writedown recognized in the
    current period.

Other Real
    Estate     OREO is
    included in other assets, and is property acquired through
    foreclosure or other proceedings on defaulted loans. OREO is
    initially recorded at fair value, less estimated selling costs.
    OREO is evaluated regularly and any decreases in value along
    with holding costs, such as taxes and insurance, are reported in
    noninterest expense.

LOANS
    HELD FOR SALE

Loans held for sale ( LHFS ) represent mortgage loan
    originations intended to be sold in the secondary market and
    other loans that management has an active plan to sell. LHFS are
    carried at the lower-of-cost-or-fair value as determined on an
    aggregate basis by type of loan with the exception of loans for
    which the Company has elected fair value accounting, which are
    carried at fair value. The credit component of any writedowns
    upon the transfer of loans to LHFS is reflected in loan
    charge-offs.

Where an election is made to subsequently carry the LHFS at fair
    value, any further decreases or subsequent increases in fair
    value are recognized in noninterest income. Where an election is
    made to subsequently carry LHFS at lower-of-cost-or-fair value,
    any further decreases are recognized in noninterest income and
    increases in fair value are not recognized until the loans are
    sold.

DERIVATIVE
    FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

In the ordinary course of business, the Company enters into
    derivative transactions to manage its interest rate, prepayment,
    credit, price and foreign currency risk and to accommodate the
    business requirements of its customers. Derivative instruments
    are reported in other assets or other liabilities at fair value.
    Changes in a derivative s fair value are recognized
    currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria
    are met.

All derivative instruments that qualify and are designated for
    hedge accounting are recorded at fair value and classified
    either as a hedge of the fair value of a recognized asset or
    liability ( fair value hedge ), a hedge of the
    variability of cash flows to be received or paid related to a
    recognized asset or liability or a forecasted transaction
    ( cash flow hedge ), or a hedge of the volatility of
    an investment in foreign operations driven by changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates ( net investment hedge ).
    Changes in the fair value of a derivative that is highly
    effective and designated as a fair value hedge, and the
    offsetting changes in the fair value of the hedged item, are
    recorded in income. Effective changes in the fair value of a
    derivative designated as a cash flow hedge are recorded in
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) until cash flows
    of the hedged item are recognized in income. Any change in fair
    value resulting from hedge ineffectiveness is immediately
    recorded in noninterest income. The Company performs an
    assessment, both at the inception of a hedge and, at a minimum,
    on a quarterly basis thereafter, to determine whether
    derivatives designated as hedging instruments are highly
    effective in offsetting changes in the value of the hedged items.

If a derivative designated as a cash flow hedge is terminated or
    ceases to be highly effective, the gain or loss in accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss) is amortized to earnings over
    the period the forecasted hedged transactions impact earnings.
    If a hedged forecasted transaction is no longer probable, hedge
    accounting is ceased and any gain or loss included in
    accumulated other

76     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

comprehensive income (loss) is reported in earnings immediately.

REVENUE
    RECOGNITION

The Company recognizes revenue as it is earned based on
    contractual terms, as transactions occur, or as services are
    provided and collectibility is reasonably assured. In certain
    circumstances, noninterest income is reported net of associated
    expenses that are directly related to variable volume-based
    sales or revenue sharing arrangements or when the Company acts
    on an agency basis for others. Certain specific policies include
    the following:

Credit and
    Debit Card Revenue
        Credit and debit
    card revenue includes interchange income from credit and debit
    cards, annual fees, and other transaction and account management
    fees. Interchange income is a fee paid by a merchant bank to the
    card-issuing bank through the interchange network. Interchange
    fees are set by the credit card companies and are based on
    cardholder purchase volumes. The Company records interchange
    income as transactions occur. Transaction and account management
    fees are recognized as transactions occur or services are
    provided, except for annual fees, which are recognized over the
    applicable period. Volume-related payments to partners and
    credit card companies and expenses for rewards programs are also
    recorded within credit and debit card revenue. Payments to
    partners and expenses related to rewards programs are recorded
    when earned by the partner or customer.

Merchant
    Processing Services
        Merchant processing
    services revenue consists principally of transaction and account
    management fees charged to merchants for the electronic
    processing of transactions, net of interchange fees paid to the
    credit card issuing bank, card company assessments, and revenue
    sharing amounts, and is recognized at the time the
    merchant s transactions are processed or other services are
    performed. The Company may enter into revenue sharing agreements
    with referral partners or in connection with purchases of
    merchant contracts from sellers. The revenue sharing amounts are
    determined primarily on sales volume processed or revenue
    generated for a particular group of merchants. Merchant
    processing revenue also includes revenues related to
     point-of-sale 
    equipment recorded as sales when the equipment is shipped or as
    earned for equipment rentals.

Trust and
    Investment Management Fees
        Trust and investment
    management fees are recognized over the period in which services
    are performed and are based on a percentage of the fair value of
    the assets under management or administration, fixed based on
    account type, or transaction-based fees.

Deposit
    Service Charges
        Service charges on
    deposit accounts are primarily monthly fees based on minimum
    balances or transaction-based fees. These fees are recognized as
    earned or as transactions occur and services are provided.

OTHER
    SIGNIFICANT POLICIES

Intangible
    Assets    The price paid over the net fair value of
    acquired businesses ( goodwill ) is not amortized.
    Other intangible assets are amortized over their estimated
    useful lives, using straight-line and accelerated methods. The
    recoverability of goodwill and other intangible assets is
    evaluated annually, at a minimum, or on an interim basis if
    events or circumstances indicate a possible inability to realize
    the carrying amount. The evaluation includes assessing the
    estimated fair value of the intangible asset based on market
    prices for similar assets, where available, and the present
    value of the estimated future cash flows associated with the
    intangible asset.

Income Taxes
        Deferred taxes are
    recorded to reflect the tax consequences on future years of
    differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and
    their financial reporting carrying amounts.

Mortgage
    Servicing Rights
        Mortgage servicing
    rights ( MSRs ) are capitalized as separate assets
    when loans are sold and servicing is retained or if they are
    purchased from others. MSRs are recorded at fair value. The
    Company determines the fair value by estimating the present
    value of the asset s future cash flows utilizing
    market-based prepayment rates, discount rates, and other
    assumptions validated through comparison to trade information,
    industry surveys and independent third-party valuations. Changes
    in the fair value of MSRs are recorded in earnings during the
    period in which they occur. Risks inherent in the MSRs valuation
    include higher than expected prepayment rates
     and/or 
    delayed receipt of cash flows. The Company utilizes futures,
    forwards and options to mitigate MSR valuation risk. Fair value
    changes related to the MSRs and the futures, forwards and
    options, as well as servicing and other related fees, are
    recorded in mortgage banking revenue.

Pensions
        For purposes of its
    retirement plans, the Company utilizes its fiscal year-end as
    the measurement date. At the measurement date, plan assets are
    determined based on fair value, generally representing
    observable market prices. The

U.S. BANCORP   77 

Table of Contents   

actuarial cost method used to compute the pension liabilities
    and related expense is the projected unit credit method. The
    projected benefit obligation is principally determined based on
    the present value of projected benefit distributions at an
    assumed discount rate. The discount rate utilized is based on
    the investment yield of high quality corporate bonds available
    in the marketplace with maturities equal to projected cash flows
    of future benefit payments as of the measurement date. Periodic
    pension expense (or income) includes service costs, interest
    costs based on the assumed discount rate, the expected return on
    plan assets based on an actuarially derived market-related value
    and amortization of actuarial gains and losses. Pension
    accounting reflects the long-term nature of benefit obligations
    and the investment horizon of plan assets, and can have the
    effect of reducing earnings volatility related to short-term
    changes in interest rates and market valuations. Actuarial gains
    and losses include the impact of plan amendments and various
    unrecognized gains and losses which are deferred and amortized
    over the future service periods of active employees. The
    market-related value utilized to determine the expected return
    on plan assets is based on fair value adjusted for the
    difference between expected returns and actual performance of
    plan assets. The unrealized difference between actual experience
    and expected returns is included in expense over a twelve-year
    period. The overfunded or underfunded status of the plans is
    recorded as an asset or liability on the balance sheet, with
    changes in that status recognized through other comprehensive
    income (loss).

Premises and
    Equipment     Premises
    and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation
    and depreciated primarily on a straight-line basis over the
    estimated life of the assets. Estimated useful lives range up to
    40 years for newly constructed buildings and from 3 to
    20 years for furniture and equipment.

Capitalized leases, less accumulated amortization, are included
    in premises and equipment. Capitalized lease obligations are
    included in long-term debt. Capitalized leases are amortized on
    a straight-line basis over the lease term and the amortization
    is included in depreciation expense.

Stock-Based
    Compensation     The
    Company grants stock-based awards, including restricted stock,
    restricted stock units and options to purchase common stock of
    the Company. Stock option grants are for a fixed number of
    shares to employees and directors with an exercise price equal
    to the fair value of the shares at the date of grant.
    Stock-based compensation for awards is recognized in the
    Company s results of operations on a straight-line basis
    over the vesting period. The Company immediately recognizes
    compensation cost of awards to employees that meet retirement
    status, despite their continued active employment. The
    amortization of stock-based compensation reflects estimated
    forfeitures adjusted for actual forfeiture experience. As
    compensation expense is recognized, a deferred tax asset is
    recorded that represents an estimate of the future tax deduction
    from exercise or release of restrictions. At the time
    stock-based awards are exercised, cancelled, expire, or
    restrictions are released, the Company may be required to
    recognize an adjustment to tax expense, depending on the market
    price of the Company s common stock at that time.

Per Share
    Calculations
        Earnings per common
    share is calculated by dividing net income applicable to
    U.S. Bancorp common shareholders by the weighted average
    number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per common
    share is calculated by adjusting income and outstanding shares,
    assuming conversion of all potentially dilutive securities.

Note 2       ACCOUNTING
    CHANGES

Accounting for
    Transfers of Financial Assets
        Effective
    January 1, 2010, the Company adopted accounting guidance
    issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board
    ( FASB ) related to transfers of financial assets.
    This guidance removes the concept of qualifying special-purpose
    entities and the exception for guaranteed mortgage
    securitizations when a transferor had not surrendered control
    over the transferred financial assets. In addition, the guidance
    provides clarification of the requirements for isolation and
    limitations on sale accounting for portions of financial assets.
    The guidance also requires additional disclosure about transfers
    of financial assets and a transferor s continuing
    involvement with transferred assets. The adoption of this
    guidance was not significant to the Company s financial
    statements.

Variable
    Interest Entities
        Effective
    January 1, 2010, the Company adopted accounting guidance
    issued by the FASB related to VIEs. Generally, a VIE is an
    entity with insufficient equity requiring additional
    subordinated financial support, or an entity in which equity
    investors as a group, either (i) lack the power through
    voting or other similar rights, to direct the activities of the
    entity that most significantly impact its performance,
    (ii) lack the obligation to absorb the expected losses of
    the entity or (iii) lack the right to receive the expected
    residual returns of the entity.

78     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

The new guidance replaces the previous quantitative-based risks
    and rewards calculation for determining whether an entity must
    consolidate a VIE with an assessment of whether the entity has
    both (i) the power to direct the activities of the VIE that
    most significantly impact the VIE s economic performance
    and (ii) the obligation to absorb losses of the VIE or the
    right to receive benefits from the VIE that could potentially be
    significant to the VIE. This guidance requires reconsideration
    of whether an entity is a VIE upon occurrence of certain events,
    as well as ongoing assessments of whether a variable interest
    holder is the primary beneficiary of a VIE. The Company
    consolidated approximately $1.6 billion of assets of
    previously unconsolidated entities, and deconsolidated
    approximately $84 million of assets of previously
    consolidated entities upon adoption of this guidance.
    Additionally, the adoption of this guidance reduced total equity
    by $89 million.

Note 3       BUSINESS
    COMBINATIONS AND DIVESTITURES

In 2009, the Company acquired the banking operations of  First
    Bank of Oak Park Corporation ( FBOP ) in an FDIC
    assisted transaction, and in 2008 the Company acquired the
    banking operations of Downey Savings and Loan Association, F.A.
    and PFF Bank and Trust ( Downey  and  PFF ,
    respectively) in FDIC assisted transactions. Through these
    acquisitions, the Company increased its deposit base and branch
    franchise. The Company acquired approximately $18.0 billion of
    assets in the FBOP acquisition and approximately $17.4 billion
    of assets in the Downey and PFF acquisitions, most of which are
    covered under loss sharing agreements with the FDIC. Under the
    terms of the loss sharing agreements, the FDIC will reimburse
    the Company for most of the losses on the covered assets.

In 2010, the Company acquired the securitization trust
    administration business of Bank of America, N.A. This
    transaction included the acquisition of $1.1 trillion of
    assets under administration and provided the Company with
    approximately $8 billion of deposits as of
    December 31, 2010.

During 2010, the Company exchanged the long-term asset
    management business of U.S. Bancorp Asset Management (formerly
    FAF Advisors, Inc.), an affiliate of the Company, for cash
    consideration and a 9.5 percent equity interest in Nuveen
    Investments. The Company recorded a $103 million gain ($41
    million after tax) related to this transaction. The Company will
    retain all other products and services previously offered by
    U.S. Bancorp Asset Management.

Note 4       RESTRICTIONS
    ON CASH AND DUE FROM BANKS

The Federal Reserve Bank requires bank subsidiaries to maintain
    minimum average reserve balances. The amount of those reserve
    balances were approximately $1.2 billion at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009.

U.S. BANCORP   79 

Table of Contents   

Note 5       INVESTMENT
    SECURITIES

The amortized cost,
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment recorded in other comprehensive income (loss), gross
    unrealized holding gains and losses, and fair value of
     held-to-maturity 
    and
     available-for-sale 
    securities at December 31 were as follows:

(a)

Held-to-maturity 
    securities are carried at historical cost adjusted for
    amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts and
    credit-related
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment.   

(b)

Available-for-sale 
    securities are carried at fair value with unrealized net gains
    or losses reported within accumulated other comprehensive income
    (loss) in shareholders  equity.   

(c)

Prime
    securities are those designated as such by the issuer or those
    with underlying asset characteristics and/or credit enhancements
    consistent with securities designated as prime.   

(d)

Includes
    securities covered under loss shaing agreements with the FDIC
    with a fair value of $231 million at December 31,
    2009. No securities were covered under loss sharing agreements
    at December 31, 2010.   

The weighted-average maturity of the
     available-for-sale 
    investment securities was 7.4 years at December 31,
    2010, compared with 7.1 years at December 31, 2009.
    The corresponding weighted-average yields were 3.41 percent
    and 4.00 percent, respectively. The weighted-average
    maturity of the
     held-to-maturity 
    investment securities was 6.3 years at December 31,
    2010, and 8.4 years at December 31, 2009. The
    corresponding weighted-average yields were 2.07 percent and
    5.10 percent, respectively.

For amortized cost, fair value and yield by maturity date of
     held-to-maturity 
    and
     available-for-sale 
    securities outstanding at December 31, 2010, refer to Table
    11 included in Management s Discussion and Analysis which
    is

80     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

Securities carried at $28.0 billion at December 31,
    2010, and $37.4 billion at December 31, 2009, were
    pledged to secure public, private and trust deposits, repurchase
    agreements and for other purposes required by law. Included in
    these amounts were securities sold under agreements to
    repurchase where the buyer/lender has the right to sell or
    pledge the securities and which were collateralized by
    securities with a carrying amount of $9.3 billion at
    December 31, 2010, and $8.9 billion at
    December 31, 2009.

The following table provides information about the amount of
    interest income from taxable and non-taxable investment
    securities:

The following table provides information about the amount of
    gross gains and losses realized through the sales of
     available-for-sale 
    investment securities:

In 2007, the Company purchased certain structured investment
    securities ( SIVs ) from certain money market funds
    managed by an affiliate of the Company. Subsequent to the
    initial purchase, the Company exchanged its interest in the SIVs
    for a pro-rata portion of the underlying investment securities
    according to the applicable restructuring agreements. The SIVs
    and the investment securities received are collectively referred
    to as  SIV-related securities. 

Some of the SIV-related securities evidenced credit
    deterioration at the time of acquisition by the Company.
    Investment securities with evidence of credit deterioration at
    acquisition had an unpaid principal balance and fair value of
    $485 million and $173 million, respectively, at
    December 31, 2010, and $1.2 billion and
    $483 million, respectively, at December 31, 2009.
    Changes in the accretable balance for these securities were as
    follows:

(a)

Primarily
    resulted from the exchange of certain SIVs for the underlying
    investment securities.   

(b)

Primarily
    resulted from the sale of securities covered under loss sharing
    agreements with the FDIC and the exchange of certain SIVs for
    the underlying investment securities.   

(c)

Primarily
    represents changes in projected future cash flows on certain
    investment securities.   

The Company conducts a regular assessment of its investment
    securities with unrealized losses to determine whether
    securities are
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired considering, among other factors, the nature of the
    securities, credit ratings or financial condition of the issuer,
    the extent and duration of the unrealized loss, expected cash
    flows of underlying collateral, market conditions and whether
    the Company intends to sell or it is more likely than not the
    Company will be required to sell the securities. To determine
    whether perpetual preferred securities are
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired, the Company considers the issuers  credit
    ratings, historical financial performance and strength, the
    ability to sustain earnings, and other factors such as market
    presence and management experience.

U.S. BANCORP   81 

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment by investment category:

(a)

Prime
    securities are those designated as such by the issuer or those
    with underlying asset characteristics and/or credit enhancements
    consistent with securities designated as prime.   

The Company determined the
     other-than-temporary 
    impairment recorded in earnings for securities other than
    perpetual preferred securities by estimating the future cash
    flows of each individual security, using market information
    where available, and discounting the cash flows at the original
    effective rate of the security.
     Other-than-temporary 
    impairment recorded in other comprehensive income (loss) was
    measured as the difference between that discounted amount and
    the fair value of each security. The following table includes
    the ranges for principal assumptions used at December 31,
    2010 for those
     available-for-sale 
    non-agency mortgage-backed securities determined to be
     other-than-temporarily 
    impaired:

Changes in the credit losses on non-agency mortgage-backed
    securities, including SIV-related securities, and other debt
    securities are summarized as follows:

82     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

At December 31, 2010, certain investment securities had a
    fair value below amortized cost. The following table shows the
    gross unrealized losses and fair value of the Company s
    investments with unrealized losses, aggregated by investment
    category and length of time the individual securities have been
    in continuous unrealized loss positions, at December 31,
    2010:

(a)

Prime
    securities are those designated as such by the issuer or those
    with underlying asset characteristics and/or credit enhancements
    consistent with securities designated as prime.   

The Company does not consider these unrealized losses to be
    credit-related. These unrealized losses primarily relate to
    changes in interest rates and market spreads subsequent to
    purchase. A substantial portion of securities that have
    unrealized losses are either corporate debt, obligations of
    state and political subdivisions or mortgage-backed securities
    issued with high investment grade credit ratings. In general,
    the issuers of the investment securities are contractually
    prohibited from prepayment at less than par, and the Company did
    not pay significant purchase premiums for these securities. At
    December 31, 2010, the Company had no plans to sell
    securities with unrealized losses and believes it is more likely
    than not it would not be required to sell such securities before
    recovery of their amortized cost.

U.S. BANCORP   83 

Table of Contents   

Note 6       LOANS
    AND ALLOWANCE FOR CREDIT LOSSES

The composition of the loan portfolio at December 31 was as
    follows:

The Company had loans of $62.8 billion at December 31,
    2010, and $55.6 billion at December 31, 2009, pledged
    at the Federal Home Loan Bank, and loans of $44.6 billion
    at December 31, 2010, and $44.2 billion at
    December 31, 2009, pledged at the Federal Reserve Bank.

The Company primarily lends to borrowers in the states in which
    it has Consumer and Small Business Banking offices. Collateral
    for commercial loans may include marketable securities, accounts
    receivable, inventory and equipment. For details of the
    Company s commercial portfolio by industry group and
    geography as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, see Table 7
    included in Management s Discussion and Analysis which is
    incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

For detail of the Company s commercial real estate
    portfolio by property type and geography as of December 31,
    2010 and 2009, see Table 8 included in Management s
    Discussion and Analysis which is incorporated by reference into
    these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Such loans are
    collateralized by the related property.

Originated loans are presented net of unearned interest and
    deferred fees and costs, which amounted to $1.3 billion at
    December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In accordance
    with applicable authoritative accounting guidance effective for
    the Company January 1, 2009, all purchased loans and
    related indemnification assets are recorded at fair value at the
    date of purchase. The Company evaluates purchased loans for
    impairment in accordance with applicable authoritative
    accounting guidance. Purchased loans with evidence of credit
    deterioration since origination for which it is probable that
    all contractually required payments will not be collected are
    considered impaired ( purchased impaired loans ). All
    other purchased loans are considered nonimpaired
    ( purchased nonimpaired loans ).

84     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Covered assets represent loans and other assets acquired from
    the FDIC subject to loss sharing agreements and included
    expected reimbursements from the FDIC of approximately
    $3.1 billion at December 31, 2010, and
    $3.9 billion at December 31, 2009. The carrying amount
    of covered assets consisted of purchased impaired loans,
    purchased nonimpaired loans, and other assets as shown in the
    following table:

At December 31, 2010, $.5 billion of the purchased
    impaired loans included in covered loans were classified as
    nonperforming assets, compared with $1.1 billion at
    December 31, 2009, because the expected cash flows are
    primarily based on the liquidation of underlying collateral and
    the timing and amount of the cash flows could not be reasonably
    estimated. Interest income is recognized on other purchased
    impaired loans in covered loans through accretion of the
    difference between the carrying amount of those loans and their
    expected cash flows. The initial determination of the fair value
    of the purchased loans includes the impact of expected credit
    losses and, therefore, no allowance for credit losses is
    recorded at the purchase date. To the extent credit
    deterioration occurs after the date of acquisition, the Company
    records an allowance for credit losses.

Changes in the accretable balance for purchased impaired loans
    for the Downey, PFF and FBOP transactions were as follows:

(a)

Primarily
    relates to improvements in expected credit performance and
    changes in variable rates.   

U.S. BANCORP   85 

Table of Contents   

The allowance for credit losses reserves for probable and
    estimatable losses incurred in the Company s loan and lease
    portfolio and includes certain amounts related to purchased
    loans that do not represent loss exposure to the Company,
    because those losses are recoverable under loss sharing
    agreements with the FDIC. Activity in the allowance for credit
    losses was as follows:

Additional detail of the allowance for credit losses and related
    loan balances, by portfolio type, for the year ended
    December 31, 2010, was as follows:

(a)

Represents
    commercial and commercial real estate loans that are greater
    than $5 million and are classified as nonperforming or
    TDRs.   

(b)

Includes
    expected reimbursements from the FDIC under loss sharing
    agreements.   

86     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Credit Quality
      The quality of the Company s loan portfolios is
    assessed as a function of net credit losses, levels of
    nonperforming assets and delinquencies, and credit quality
    ratings as defined by the Company. These credit quality ratings
    are an important part of the Company s overall credit risk
    management process and evaluation of its allowance for credit
    losses.

The following table provides a summary of loans by portfolio
    type, including the delinquency status of those loans that
    continue to accrue interest, and those loans that are
    nonperforming:

Total nonperforming assets include nonaccrual loans,
    restructured loans not performing in accordance with modified
    terms, other real estate and other nonperforming assets owned by
    the Company. For details of the Company s nonperforming
    assets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, see Table 14
    included in Management s Discussion and Analysis which is
    incorporated by reference into these Notes to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

The following table lists information related to nonperforming
    loans as of December 31:

The Company classifies its loan portfolios using internal credit
    quality ratings, as discussed in the Company s significant
    accounting policies in Note 1. The following table provides
    a summary of loans by portfolio type and the Company s
    internal credit quality rating:

(a)

Classified
    rating on consumer loans is primarily based on delinquency
    status.   

U.S. BANCORP   87 

Table of Contents   

A loan is considered to be impaired when, based on current
    events or information, it is probable the Company will be unable
    to collect all amounts due per the contractual terms of the loan
    agreement. Impaired loans include certain nonaccrual commercial
    loans, loans for which a charge-off has been recorded based upon
    the fair value of the underlying collateral and loans modified
    as TDRs. Nonaccrual commercial lease financing loans of
    $78 million, $125 million and $102 million at
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were
    excluded from impaired loans as commercial lease financing loans
    are accounted for under authoritative accounting guidance for
    leases, and are excluded from the definition of an impaired loan
    under loan impairment guidance. A summary of impaired loans,
    excluding covered loans, was as follows:

Note:
    At December 31, 2010, all impaired loans had an associated
    allowance. At December 31, 2009 and 2008, all impaired
    loans, except for certain impaired commercial and commercial
    real estate loans had an associated allowance. Impaired loan
    balances with no associated allowance at December 31, 2009
    and 2008, were $1.0 billion and $514 million,
    respectively.  

Additional detail of impaired loans by portfolio type, excluding
    covered loans, for the year ended December 31, 2010, was as
    follows:

Net gains on the sale of loans of $574 million,
    $710 million and $220 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, were
    included in noninterest income, primarily in mortgage banking
    revenue.

The Company has an equity interest in a joint venture that is
    accounted for utilizing the equity method. The principal
    activities of this entity are to lend to entities that develop
    land, and construct and sell residential homes. The Company
    provides a warehousing line to this joint venture. Warehousing
    advances to this joint venture are repaid when the sale of loans
    is completed or the real estate is permanently refinanced by
    others. At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had
    $825 million and $890 million, respectively, of
    outstanding advances to this joint venture. These advances are
    included in commercial real estate loans.

88     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Note 7       LEASES

The components of the net investment in sales-type and direct
    financing leases at December 31 were as follows:

The minimum future lease payments to be received from sales-type
    and direct financing leases were as follows at December 31,
    2010:

Note 8       ACCOUNTING
    FOR TRANSFERS AND SERVICING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND VARIABLE
    INTEREST ENTITIES

The Company sells financial assets in the normal course of
    business. The majority of the Company s financial asset
    sales are residential mortgage loan sales primarily to
    government-sponsored enterprises through established programs,
    the sale or syndication of tax-advantaged investments,
    commercial loan sales through participation agreements, and
    other individual or portfolio loan and securities sales. In
    accordance with the accounting guidance for asset transfers, the
    Company considers any ongoing involvement with transferred
    assets in determining whether the assets can be derecognized
    from the balance sheet. For loans sold under participation
    agreements, the Company also considers the terms of the loan
    participation agreement and whether they meet the definition of
    a participating interest and thus qualify for derecognition.
    With the exception of servicing and certain performance-based
    guarantees, the Company s continuing involvement with
    financial assets sold is minimal and generally limited to market
    customary representation and warranty clauses. The guarantees
    provided to certain third-parties in connection with the sale or
    syndication of certain assets, primarily loan portfolios and
    tax-advantaged investments, are further discussed in
    Note 22. When the Company sells financial assets, it may
    retain servicing rights
     and/or  other
    interests in the transferred financial assets. The gain or loss
    on sale depends on the previous carrying amount of the
    transferred financial assets and the consideration received and
    any liabilities incurred in exchange for the transferred assets.
    Upon transfer, any servicing assets and other interests that
    continue to be held by the Company are initially recognized at
    fair value. For further information on MSRs, refer to
    Note 10. The Company has no asset securitizations or
    similar asset-backed financing arrangements that are off-balance
    sheet.

The Company is involved in various entities that are considered
    to be VIEs. The Company s investments in VIEs primarily
    represent private investment funds or partnerships that make
    equity investments, provide debt financing or support
    community-based investments in affordable housing development
    entities that provide capital for communities located in
    low-income districts and for historic rehabilitation projects
    that may enable the Company to ensure regulatory compliance with
    the Community Reinvestment Act. In addition, the Company
    sponsors entities to which it transfers tax-advantaged
    investments. The Company s investments in these entities
    are designed to generate a return primarily through the
    realization of federal and state income tax credits over
    specified time periods. The Company realized federal and state
    income tax credits related to these investments of
    $713 million, $685 million and $556 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. The Company amortizes its investments in these
    entities as the tax credits are realized. Tax credit
    amortization expense is

U.S. BANCORP   89 

Table of Contents   

recorded in tax expense for investments meeting certain
    characteristics, and in other noninterest expense for other
    investments. Amortization expense recorded in tax expense was
    $228 million, $265 million and $213 million, and
    in other noninterest expense was $546 million,
    $436 million and $311 million for the years ended
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively.

As a result of adopting new accounting guidance, the Company
    consolidated certain community development and tax-advantaged
    investment entities on January 1, 2010 that it had not
    previously consolidated. The consolidation of these VIEs
    increased assets and liabilities by approximately
    $1.0 billion. The equity impact of consolidating these VIEs
    was a $9 million decrease, which represented the
    recognition of noncontrolling interests in the consolidated
    VIEs. At December 31, 2010, approximately $3.5 billion
    of the Company s assets and liabilities related to
    community development and tax-advantaged investment VIEs. The
    majority of the assets of these consolidated VIEs are reported
    in other assets, and the liabilities are reported in long-term
    debt on the consolidated balance sheet. The assets of a
    particular VIE are the primary source of funds to settle its
    obligations. The creditors of the VIEs do not have recourse to
    the general credit of the Company. The Company s exposure
    to the consolidated VIEs is generally limited to the carrying
    value of its variable interests plus any related tax credits
    previously recognized.

The Company also deconsolidated certain community development
    and tax-advantaged investment entities as a result of adopting
    the new accounting guidance, principally because the Company did
    not have power to direct the activities that most significantly
    impact the VIEs. The deconsolidation of these VIEs resulted in
    an $84 million decrease in assets and $77 million
    decrease in liabilities. The deconsolidation also resulted in a
    $7 million decrease to equity, which was principally the
    removal of the noncontrolling interests in these VIEs.

In addition, the Company sponsors a conduit to which it
    previously transferred high-grade investment securities. Under
    accounting rules effective prior to January 1, 2010, the
    Company was not the primary beneficiary of the conduit as it did
    not absorb the majority of the conduit s expected losses or
    residual returns. Under the new accounting guidance, the Company
    consolidated the conduit on January 1, 2010, because of its
    ability to manage the activities of the conduit. Consolidation
    of the conduit increased
     held-to-maturity 
    investment securities $.6 billion, decreased loans
    $.7 billion, and reduced retained earnings
    $73 million. At December 31, 2010, $.4 billion of
    the
     held-to-maturity 
    investment securities on the Company s consolidated balance
    sheet related to the conduit.

The Company also sponsors a municipal bond securities tender
    option bond program. The Company controls the activities of the
    program s entities, is entitled to the residual returns and
    provides credit, liquidity and remarketing arrangements to the
    program. As a result, the Company has consolidated the
    program s entities since its inception. At
    December 31, 2010, and December 31, 2009,
    $5.6 billion of
     available-for-sale 
    securities and $5.7 billion of short-term borrowings on the
    consolidated balance sheet were related to the tender option
    bond program.

The Company is not required to consolidate other VIEs in which
    it has concluded it does not have a controlling financial
    interest, and thus is not the primary beneficiary. In such
    cases, the Company does not have both the power to direct the
    entities  most significant activities and the obligation to
    absorb losses or right to receive benefits that could
    potentially be significant to the VIEs. The Company s
    investments in unconsolidated VIEs ranged from less than
    $1 million to $41 million, with an aggregate amount of
    approximately $2.0 billion at December 31, 2010, and
    from less than $1 million to $63 million, with an
    aggregate amount of $2.4 billion at December 31, 2009.
    The Company s investments in these unconsolidated VIEs
    generally are carried in other assets on the balance sheet.
    While the Company believes potential losses from these
    investments are remote, the Company s maximum exposure to
    these unconsolidated VIEs, including any tax implications, was
    approximately $5.0 billion at December 31, 2010,
    compared with $4.7 billion at December 31, 2009. This
    maximum exposure is determined by assuming a scenario where the
    separate investments within the individual private funds were to
    become worthless, and the community-based business and housing
    projects and related tax credits completely failed and did not
    meet certain government compliance requirements.

90     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Note 9       PREMISES
    AND EQUIPMENT

Premises and equipment at December 31 consisted of the following:

Note 10       MORTGAGE
    SERVICING RIGHTS

The Company serviced $173.9 billion of residential mortgage
    loans for others at December 31, 2010, and
    $150.8 billion at December 31, 2009. The net impact
    included in mortgage banking revenue of assumption changes on
    the fair value of MSRs and fair value changes of derivatives
    used to economically hedge MSR value changes was a net gain of
    $139 million for the year ended December 31, 2010,
    compared with a net gain of $147 million and a net loss of
    $122 million for the years ended December 31, 2009 and
    2008, respectively. Loan servicing fees, not including valuation
    changes, included in mortgage banking revenue, were
    $600 million, $512 million and $404 million for
    the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively.

Changes in fair value of capitalized MSRs are summarized as
    follows:

(a)

Principally
    reflects changes in discount rates and prepayment speed
    assumptions, primarily arising from interest rate
    changes.   

(b)

Primarily
    represents changes due to collection/realization of expected
    cash flows over time (decay).   

The estimated sensitivity to changes in interest rates of the
    fair value of the MSRs portfolio and the related derivative
    instruments at December 31, 2010, was as follows:

The fair value of MSRs and their sensitivity to changes in
    interest rates is influenced by the mix of the servicing
    portfolio and characteristics of each segment of the portfolio.
    The Company s servicing portfolio consists of the distinct
    portfolios of government-insured mortgages, conventional
    mortgages, and Mortgage Revenue Bond Programs
    ( MRBP ). The servicing portfolios are predominantly
    comprised of fixed-rate agency loans with limited
    adjustable-rate or jumbo mortgage loans. The MRBP division
    specializes in servicing loans made under state and local
    housing authority programs. These programs provide mortgages to
    low-income and moderate-income borrowers and are generally
    government-insured programs with a favorable rate subsidy, down
    payment
     and/or 
    closing cost assistance.

U.S. BANCORP   91 

Table of Contents   

A summary of the Company s MSRs and related characteristics
    by portfolio as of December 31 was as follows:

(a)

Value
    is calculated as fair market value divided by the servicing
    portfolio.   

Note 11       INTANGIBLE
    ASSETS

Intangible assets consisted of the following:

(a)

Estimated
    life represents the amortization period for assets subject to
    the straight line method and the weighted average or life of the
    underlying cash flows amortization period for intangibles
    subject to accelerated methods. If more than one amortization
    method is used for a category, the estimated life for each
    method is calculated and reported separately.   

(b)

Amortization
    methods: SL = straight line method 
               AC
    = accelerated methods generally based on cash flows  

(c)

Goodwill
    is evaluated for impairment, but not amortized. Mortgage
    servicing rights are recorded at fair value, and are not
    amortized.   

Aggregate amortization expense consisted of the following:

The estimated amortization expense for the next five years is as
    follows:

92     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

The following table reflects the changes in the carrying value
    of goodwill for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009:

(a)

Other
    changes in goodwill include the effect of foreign exchange
    translation.   

Note 12       SHORT-TERM
    BORROWINGS (a)

The following table is a summary of short-term borrowings for
    the last three years:

(a) Interest
    and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis
    utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent.  

(b) Average
    federal funds purchased rates include compensation expense for
    corporate card and corporate trust balances.  

U.S. BANCORP   93 

Table of Contents   

Note 13       LONG-TERM
    DEBT

Long-term debt (debt with original maturities of more than one
    year) at December 31 consisted of the following:

(a)

Weighted-average
    interest rates of medium-term notes, Federal Home Loan Bank
    advances and bank notes were 2.26 percent,
    2.30 percent and .98 percent, respectively.   

(b)

Other
    includes debt related to consolidated community development and
    tax-advantaged investment VIEs, debt issuance fees, and
    unrealized gains and losses and deferred amounts relating to
    derivative instruments.   

Convertible senior debentures issued by the Company pay interest
    on a quarterly basis until a specified period of time (five or
    nine years prior to the applicable maturity date). After this
    date, the Company will not pay interest on the debentures prior
    to maturity. On the maturity date or on any earlier redemption
    date, the holder will receive the original principal plus
    accrued interest. The debentures are convertible at any time on
    or prior to the maturity date. If the convertible senior
    debentures are converted, holders of the debentures will
    generally receive cash up to the accreted principal amount of
    the debentures plus, if the market price of the Company s
    stock exceeds the conversion price in effect on the date of
    conversion, a number of shares of the Company s common
    stock, or an equivalent amount of cash at the Company s
    option, as determined in accordance with specified terms. The
    convertible senior debentures are callable by the Company and
    putable by the investors at a price equal to 100 percent of
    the accreted principal amount plus accrued and unpaid interest.
    During 2010, investors elected to put debentures with a
    principal amount of $461 million back to the company. At
    December 31, 2010, the weighted average conversion price
    per share for all convertible issuances was $42.33.

During 2010, the Company redeemed $575 million of
    fixed-rate junior subordinated debentures issued to a
    wholly-owned trust formed for the purpose of issuing redeemable
    Income Trust Securities ( ITS ) to third-party
    investors. During 2009, the Company issued $501 million of
    fixed-rate junior subordinated debentures to a separately formed
    wholly-owned trust for the purpose of issuing Company-obligated
    mandatorily redeemable preferred securities at an interest rate
    of 6.625 percent. Refer to Note 14,  Junior
    Subordinated Debentures  for further information on the
    nature and terms of these debentures. There were no

94     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

issuances of junior subordinated debentures in 2010. There were
    no redemptions of junior subordinated debentures in 2009.

The Company has an arrangement with the Federal Home Loan Bank
    whereby the Company could have borrowed an additional
    $18.7 billion and $17.3 billion at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, respectively, based on collateral available
    (residential and commercial mortgages).

Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31,
    2010, were:

Note 14       JUNIOR
    SUBORDINATED DEBENTURES

As of December 31, 2010, the Company sponsored, and wholly
    owned 100 percent of the common equity of, ten
    unconsolidated trusts that were formed for the purpose of
    issuing Company-obligated mandatorily redeemable preferred
    securities ( Trust Preferred Securities ) to
    third-party investors and investing the proceeds from the sale
    of the Trust Preferred Securities solely in junior
    subordinated debt securities of the Company (the
     Debentures ). The Debentures held by the trusts,
    which totaled $4 billion, are the sole assets of each
    trust. The Company s obligations under the Debentures and
    related documents, taken together, constitute a full and
    unconditional guarantee by the Company of the obligations of the
    trusts. The guarantee covers the distributions and payments on
    liquidation or redemption of the Trust Preferred
    Securities, but only to the extent of funds held by the trusts.
    The Company has the right to redeem the Debentures in whole or
    in part, on or after specific dates, at a redemption price
    specified in the indentures plus any accrued but unpaid interest
    to the redemption date. The Company used the proceeds from the
    sales of the Debentures for general corporate purposes.

In connection with the formation of USB Capital IX, the trust
    issued redeemable ITS to third-party investors, investing the
    proceeds in Debentures issued by the Company and entered into
    stock purchase contracts to purchase preferred stock to be
    issued by the Company in the future. During 2010, the Company
    exchanged depositary shares representing an ownership interest
    in the Company s Series A Non-Cumulative Perpetual
    Preferred Stock ( Series A Preferred Stock ) for
    a portion of the ITS issued by USB Capital IX, redeemed
    $575 million of the Debentures and cancelled a pro-rata
    portion of the stock purchase contracts. The Company is required
    to make contract payments on the remaining stock purchase
    contracts of .65 percent, payable semi-annually, through a
    specified stock purchase date expected to be April 15,
    2011. Subsequent to December 31, 2010, the remaining
    Debentures were sold to third-party investors to generate cash
    proceeds to be used to purchase the Company s Series A
    Preferred Stock pursuant to the stock purchase contracts.

U.S. BANCORP   95 

Table of Contents   

The following table is a summary of the Debentures included in
    long-term debt as of December 31, 2010:

Note 15       SHAREHOLDERS 
    EQUITY

At December 31, 2010 and 2009, the Company had authority to
    issue 4 billion shares of common stock and 50 million
    shares of preferred stock. The Company had 1.9 billion
    shares of common stock outstanding at December 31, 2010 and
    2009, and had 162 million shares reserved for future
    issuances, primarily under stock option plans and shares that
    may be issued in connection with the Company s convertible
    senior debentures, at December 31, 2010.

The number of shares issued and outstanding and the carrying
    amount of each outstanding series of the Company s
    preferred stock was as follows:

(a) The par
    value of all shares issued and outstanding at December 31,
    2010 and 2009, was $1.00 a share.  

The depositary shares issued by the Company in exchange for the
    USB Capital IX ITS represent an ownership interest in
    5,746 shares of Series A Preferred Stock and have a
    liquidation preference of $100,000 per share. The Series A
    Preferred Stock has no stated maturity and will not be subject
    to any sinking fund or other obligation of the Company.
    Dividends, if declared, will accrue and be payable
    semi-annually, in arrears, at a rate per annum equal to
    7.189 percent through a specified stock purchase date for
    the remaining untendered ITS expected to be April 15, 2011,
    and thereafter, payable quarterly, at a rate per annum equal to
    the greater of three-month LIBOR plus 1.02 percent or
    3.50 percent. The Series A Preferred Stock is
    redeemable at the Company s option subsequent to the stock
    purchase date, subject to prior approval by the Federal Reserve
    Board.

On November 14, 2008, the Company issued 6.6 million
    shares of Series E Fixed Rate Cumulative Perpetual
    Preferred Stock (the  Series E Preferred Stock )
    and a warrant to purchase 33 million shares of the
    Company s common stock, at a price of $30.29 per common
    share, to the U.S. Department of the Treasury under the
    Capital Purchase Program of the Emergency Economic Stabilization
    Act of 2008 for proceeds of $6.6 billion. The Company
    allocated $172 million of the proceeds to the warrant, with
    the resulting discount on the Series E Preferred Stock
    being accreted over five years and reported as a reduction to
    income applicable to common equity over that period. On
    June 17, 2009, the Company redeemed the Series E
    Preferred Stock. The Company included in its computation of
    earnings per diluted common share for the year ended
    December 31, 2009 the impact of a deemed dividend of
    $154 million, representing the unaccreted preferred stock
    discount remaining on the redemption date. On July 15,
    2009, the Company repurchased the warrant from the
    U.S. Department of the Treasury for $139 million.

96     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

On March 27, 2006, the Company issued depositary shares
    representing an ownership interest in 40,000 shares of
    Series B Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock with a
    liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the
     Series B Preferred Stock ), and on
    March 17, 2008, the Company issued depositary shares
    representing an ownership interest in 20,000 shares of
    Series D Non-Cumulative Perpetual Preferred Stock with a
    liquidation preference of $25,000 per share (the
     Series D Preferred Stock ). The Series B
    Preferred Stock and Series D Preferred Stock have no stated
    maturity and will not be subject to any sinking fund or other
    obligation of the Company. Dividends, if declared, will accrue
    and be payable quarterly, in arrears, at a rate per annum equal
    to the greater of three-month LIBOR plus .60 percent, or
    3.50 percent on the Series B Preferred Stock, and
    7.875 percent per annum on the Series D Preferred
    Stock. Both series are redeemable at the Company s option,
    on or after specific dates, subject to the prior approval of the
    Federal Reserve Board.

During 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company repurchased shares of
    its common stock under various authorizations approved by its
    Board of Directors. As of December 31, 2010, the Company
    had approximately 20 million shares that may yet be
    purchased under the current Board of Director approved
    authorization.

The following table summarizes the Company s common stock
    repurchased in each of the last three years:

U.S. BANCORP   97 

Table of Contents   

Shareholders  equity is affected by transactions and
    valuations of asset and liability positions that require
    adjustments to accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).
    The reconciliation of the transactions affecting accumulated
    other comprehensive income (loss) included in shareholders 
    equity for the years ended December 31, is as follows:

Regulatory
    Capital    The measures used to assess capital by bank
    regulatory agencies include two principal risk-based ratios,
    Tier 1 and total risk-based capital. Tier 1 capital is
    considered core capital and includes common shareholders 
    equity plus qualifying preferred stock, trust preferred
    securities and noncontrolling interests in consolidated
    subsidiaries (subject to certain limitations), and is adjusted
    for the aggregate impact of certain items included in other
    comprehensive income (loss). Total risk-based capital includes
    Tier 1 capital and other items such as subordinated debt
    and the allowance for credit losses. Both measures are stated as
    a percentage of risk-adjusted assets, which are measured based
    on their perceived credit risk and include certain off-balance
    sheet exposures, such as unfunded loan commitments, letters of
    credit, and derivative contracts. The Company is also subject to
    a leverage ratio requirement, a non risk-based asset ratio,
    which is defined as Tier 1 capital as a percentage of
    average assets adjusted for goodwill and other non-qualifying
    intangibles and other assets.

For a summary of the regulatory capital requirements and the
    actual ratios as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, for the
    Company and its bank subsidiaries, see Table 20 included in
    Management s Discussion and Analysis, which is incorporated
    by reference into these Notes to Consolidated Financial
    Statements.

98     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

The following table provides the components of the
    Company s regulatory capital:

(a)    
     
      Includes the
    impact of items included in other comprehensive income (loss),
    such as unrealized gains (losses) on
     available-for-sale 
    securities, accumulated net gains on cash flow hedges, pension
    liability adjustments, etc.  

Noncontrolling interests principally represent preferred stock
    of consolidated subsidiaries. During 2006, the Company s
    primary banking subsidiary formed USB Realty Corp., a real
    estate investment trust, for the purpose of issuing
    5,000 shares of
     Fixed-to-Floating 
    Rate Exchangeable Non-cumulative Perpetual Series A
    Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $100,000 per
    share ( Series A Preferred Securities ) to
    third-party investors, and investing the proceeds in certain
    assets, consisting predominately of mortgage-backed securities
    from the Company. Dividends on the Series A Preferred
    Securities, if declared, will accrue and be payable quarterly,
    in arrears, at a rate per annum of 6.091 percent from
    December 22, 2006 to, but excluding, January 15, 2012.
    After January 15, 2012, the rate will be equal to
    three-month LIBOR for the related dividend period plus
    1.147 percent. If USB Realty Corp. has not declared a
    dividend on the Series A Preferred Securities before the
    dividend payment date for any dividend period, such dividend
    shall not be cumulative and shall cease to accrue and be
    payable, and USB Realty Corp. will have no obligation to pay
    dividends accrued for such dividend period, whether or not
    dividends on the Series A Preferred Securities are declared
    for any future dividend period.

The Series A Preferred Securities will be redeemable, in
    whole or in part, at the option of USB Realty Corp. on the
    dividend payment date occurring in January 2012 and each fifth
    anniversary thereafter, or in whole but not in part, at the
    option of USB Realty Corp. on any dividend date before or after
    January 2012 that is not a five-year date. Any redemption will
    be subject to the approval of the Office of the Comptroller of
    the Currency.

Note 16       EARNINGS
    PER SHARE

The components of earnings per share were:

Options and warrants outstanding at December 31, 2010, 2009
    and 2008, to purchase 56 million, 70 million and
    67 million common shares, respectively, were not included
    in the computation of diluted earnings per share for

U.S. BANCORP   99 

Table of Contents   

the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively, because they were antidilutive. Convertible senior
    debentures that could potentially be converted into shares of
    the Company s common stock pursuant to specified formulas,
    were not included in the computation of diluted earnings per
    share because they were antidilutive.

Note 17       EMPLOYEE
    BENEFITS

Employee
    Retirement Savings Plan
       The Company has a
    defined contribution retirement savings plan that covers
    substantially all its employees. Qualified employees are allowed
    to contribute up to 75 percent of their annual
    compensation, subject to Internal Revenue Service limits,
    through salary deductions under Section 401(k) of the
    Internal Revenue Code. Employee contributions are invested, at
    the employees  direction, among a variety of investment
    alternatives. Employee contributions are 100 percent
    matched by the Company, up to four percent of an employee s
    eligible annual compensation. The Company s matching
    contribution vests immediately. Although the matching
    contribution is initially invested in the Company s common
    stock, an employee can reinvest the matching contribution among
    various investment alternatives. Total expense was
    $96 million, $78 million and $76 million in 2010,
    2009 and 2008, respectively.

Pension Plans
       The Company has
    qualified noncontributory defined benefit pension plans that
    provide benefits to substantially all its employees. Pension
    benefits are provided to eligible employees based on years of
    service, multiplied by a percentage of their final average pay.
    As a result of plan mergers, pension benefits may also be
    provided using two cash balance benefit formulas where only
    investment or interest credits continue to be credited to
    participants  accounts. Employees become vested upon
    completing five years of vesting service. Effective
    January 1, 2010, the Company established a new cash balance
    formula for certain current and all future eligible employees.
    Participants receive annual pay credits based on eligible pay
    multiplied by a percentage determined by their age and years of
    service. Participants also receive an annual interest credit.
    This new plan formula resulted in a $35 million reduction
    of the 2009 projected benefit obligation.

In general, the Company s qualified pension plans 
    objectives include maintaining a funded status sufficient to
    meet participant benefit obligations over time while reducing
    long-term funding requirements and pension costs. The Company
    has an established process for evaluating all the plans, their
    performance and significant plan assumptions, including the
    assumed discount rate and the long-term rate of return
    ( LTROR ). Annually, the Company s Compensation
    and Human Resources Committee (the  Committee ),
    assisted by outside consultants, evaluates plan objectives,
    funding policies and plan investment policies considering its
    long-term investment time horizon and asset allocation
    strategies. The process also evaluates significant plan
    assumptions. Although plan assumptions are established annually,
    the Company may update its analysis on an interim basis in order
    to be responsive to significant events that occur during the
    year, such as plan mergers and amendments.

The Company s funding policy is to contribute amounts to
    its plans sufficient to meet the minimum funding requirements of
    the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended
    by the Pension Protection Act, plus such additional amounts as
    the Company determines to be appropriate. The Company made no
    contributions to the qualified pension plans in 2010 or 2009,
    and anticipates no contributions in 2011. Any contributions made
    to the qualified plans are invested in accordance with
    established investment policies and asset allocation strategies.

In addition to the funded qualified pension plans, the Company
    maintains non-qualified plans that are unfunded and provide
    benefits to certain employees. The assumptions used in computing
    the present value of the accumulated benefit obligation, the
    projected benefit obligation and net pension expense are
    substantially consistent with those assumptions used for the
    funded qualified plans. In 2011, the Company expects to
    contribute $24 million to its non-qualified pension plans
    which equals the expected benefit payments.

Postretirement
    Welfare Plan    In addition
    to providing pension benefits, the Company provides health care
    and death benefits to certain retired employees. Generally, all
    active employees may become eligible for retiree health care
    benefits by meeting defined age and service requirements. The
    Company may also subsidize the cost of coverage for employees
    meeting certain age and service requirements. The medical plan
    contains other cost-sharing features such as deductibles and
    coinsurance. The estimated cost of these retiree benefit
    payments is accrued during the employees  active service.
    In 2011, the Company expects to make no contributions to its
    postretirement welfare plan.

100     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the changes in benefit
    obligations and plan assets for the years ended
    December 31, and the funded status and amounts recognized
    in the consolidated balance sheet at December 31 for the
    retirement plans:

The following table provides information for pension plans with
    benefit obligations in excess of plan assets at December 31:

U.S. BANCORP   101 

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth the components of net periodic
    benefit cost and other amounts recognized in accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31
    for the retirement plans:

(a)

The
    pretax estimated actuarial loss (gain) and prior service cost
    (credit) for the pension plans that will be amortized from
    accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic
    benefit cost in 2011 are $125 million and
    $(9) million, respectively.   

(b)

The
    pretax estimated actuarial loss (gain) for the postretirement
    welfare plan that will be amortized from accumulated other
    comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic benefit cost in
    2011 is $(6) million.   

The following table sets forth weighted average assumptions used
    to determine the projected benefit obligations at
    December 31:

(a)

For
    2010, the discount rates were developed using Towers
    Watson s cash flow matching bond model with a modified
    duration for the qualified pension plans, non-qualified pension
    plans and postretirement welfare plan of 14.0, 11.0 and
    7.7 years, respectively. For 2009, the discount rates were
    developed using Towers Watson s cash flow matching bond
    model with a modified duration for the qualified pension plans,
    non-qualified pension plans and postretirement welfare plan of
    13.4, 10.5 and 8.2 years, respectively.   

(b)

Determined
    on a liability weighted basis.   

(c)

The
    pre-65 and post-65 rates are assumed to decrease gradually to
    5.5 percent by 2017 and 6.0 percent by 2015,
    respectively, and remain at these levels thereafter.   

*

Not
    applicable   

102     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

The following table sets forth weighted average assumptions used
    to determine net periodic benefit cost for the years ended
    December 31:

(a)

See
    footnote (a) in previous table (weighted average
    assumptions used to determine the projected benefit
    obligations).   

(b)

With
    the help of an independent pension consultant, a range of
    potential expected rates of return, economic conditions,
    historical performance relative to assumed rates of return and
    asset allocation, and peer group LTROR information are used in
    developing the plan assumptions for its expected long-term rates
    of return on plan assets. The Company determined its 2010
    expected long-term rates of return reflect current economic
    conditions and plan assets.   

(c)

Determined
    on a liability weighted basis.   

(d)

The
    pre-65 and post-65 rates are assumed to decrease gradually to
    5.5 percent by 2017 and 6.0 percent by 2015,
    respectively, and remain at these levels thereafter.   

*

Not
    applicable   

Investment
    Policies and Asset Allocation
       In establishing its
    investment policies and asset allocation strategies, the Company
    considers expected returns and the volatility associated with
    different strategies. An independent consultant performs
    modeling that projects numerous outcomes using a broad range of
    possible scenarios, including a mix of possible rates of
    inflation and economic growth. Starting with current economic
    information, the model bases its projections on past
    relationships between inflation, fixed income rates and equity
    returns when these types of economic conditions have existed
    over the previous 30 years, both in the U.S. and in
    foreign countries.

Generally, based on historical performance of the various
    investment asset classes, investments in equities have
    outperformed other investment classes but are subject to higher
    volatility. While an asset allocation including debt securities
    and other assets generally has lower volatility and may provide
    protection in a declining interest rate environment, it limits
    the pension plans  long-term up-side potential. Given the
    pension plans  investment horizon and the financial
    viability of the Company to meet its funding objectives, the
    Committee has determined that an asset allocation strategy
    investing principally in equities diversified among various
    domestic equity categories and international equities is
    appropriate. The target asset allocation for the Company s
    qualified pension plans is 55 percent domestic large cap
    equities, 19 percent domestic mid cap equities,
    6 percent domestic small cap equities and 20 percent
    international equities.

At December 31, 2010 and 2009, plan assets of the qualified
    pension plans included mutual funds that have asset management
    arrangements with related parties totaling $512 million and
    $1.1 billion, respectively.

Under a contractual agreement with U.S. Bancorp Asset
    Management, Inc., an affiliate of the Company, certain plan
    assets are lent to qualified borrowers on a short-term basis in
    exchange for investment fee income. These borrowers
    collateralize the loaned securities with either cash or non-cash
    securities. Cash collateral held at December 31, 2010 and
    2009 totaled $232 million and $121 million,
    respectively, with corresponding obligations to return the cash
    collateral of $240 million and $131 million,
    respectively.

Per authoritative accounting guidance, the Company groups plan
    assets into a three-level hierarchy for valuation techniques
    used to measure their fair value based on whether the valuation
    inputs are observable or unobservable. Refer to Note 21 for
    further discussion on these levels.

The assets of the qualified pension plans and postretirement
    welfare plan include investments in equity securities and mutual
    funds whose fair values are determined based on quoted market
    prices and classified within Level 1 of the fair value
    hierarchy. The qualified pension plans also invest a majority of
    securities purchased with cash collateral from its securities
    lending arrangement in a money market mutual fund whose fair
    value is determined based on quoted prices in markets that are
    not active and therefore is classified as Level 2.
    Additionally, the qualified pension plans have investments in
    limited partnership interests and debt securities whose fair
    values are determined by the Company by analyzing the limited
    partnerships  audited financial statements and by averaging
    the prices obtained from independent pricing services,
    respectively. These securities are categorized as Level 3.

U.S. BANCORP   103 

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the plans  investment assets
    measured at fair value at December 31:

The following table summarizes the changes in fair value for all
    plan investment assets measured at fair value using significant
    unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the years ended
    December 31:

2010

2009

Debt 

Debt 

(Dollars in Millions)

Securities

Other

Securities

Other

Balance at beginning of period

$

7

$

6

$

$

9

Unrealized gains (losses) relating to assets still held at end
    of year

3

1

(3

)

Purchases, sales, principal payments, issuances, and settlements

(2

)

(3

)

Transfers into level 3

9

Balance at end of period

$

8

$

6

$

7

$

6

The following benefit payments are expected to be paid from the
    retirement plans for the years ended December 31:

(a)

Net
    of retiree contributions and before Medicare Part D
    subsidy.   

Note 18       STOCK-BASED
    COMPENSATION

As part of its employee and director compensation programs, the
    Company may grant certain stock awards under the provisions of
    the existing stock compensation plans, including plans assumed
    in acquisitions. The plans provide for grants of options to
    purchase shares of common stock at a fixed price equal to the
    fair value of the underlying stock at the date of grant. Option
    grants are generally exercisable up to ten years from the date
    of grant. In addition, the plans provide for grants of shares of
    common stock or stock units that are subject to restriction on
    transfer prior to vesting. Most stock and unit awards vest over
    three to five years and are subject to forfeiture if certain
    vesting requirements are not met. Stock incentive plans of
    acquired companies are generally terminated at the merger
    closing dates. Option holders under such plans receive the
    Company s common stock, or options to buy the
    Company s stock, based on the conversion terms of the
    various merger agreements. At December 31, 2010, there were
    69 million shares (subject to adjustment for forfeitures)
    available for grant under various plans.

104     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

STOCK OPTION AWARDS

The following is a summary of stock options outstanding and
    exercised under various stock options plans of the Company:

(a)

Options
    cancelled includes both non-vested (i.e., forfeitures) and
    vested options.   

(b)

Outstanding
    options include stock-based awards that may be forfeited in
    future periods. The impact of the estimated forfeitures is
    reflected in compensation expense.   

Stock-based compensation expense is based on the estimated fair
    value of the award at the date of grant or modification. The
    fair value of each option award is estimated on the date of
    grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model, requiring
    the use of subjective assumptions. Because employee stock
    options have characteristics that differ from those of traded
    options, including vesting provisions and trading limitations
    that impact their liquidity, the determined value used to
    measure compensation expense may vary from their actual fair
    value. The following table includes the weighted average
    estimated fair value and assumptions utilized by the Company for
    newly issued grants:

Expected stock volatility is based on several factors including
    the historical volatility of the Company s stock, implied
    volatility determined from traded options and other factors. The
    Company uses historical data to estimate option exercises and
    employee terminations to estimate the expected life of options.
    The risk-free interest rate for the expected life of the options
    is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect on the
    date of grant. The expected dividend yield is based on the
    Company s expected dividend yield over the life of the
    options.

The following summarizes certain stock option activity of the
    Company:

U.S. BANCORP   105 

Table of Contents   

To satisfy option exercises, the Company predominantly uses
    treasury stock.

Additional information regarding stock options outstanding as of
    December 31, 2010, is as follows:

RESTRICTED STOCK AND
    UNIT AWARDS

A summary of the status of the Company s restricted shares
    of stock is presented below:

(a)

Includes
    maximum number of shares to be received by participants under
    awards that are based on the achievement of certain future
    performance criteria by the Company.   

The total fair value of shares vested was $44 million,
    $12 million, and $29 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008,
    respectively. Stock-based compensation expense was
    $113 million, $89 million and $85 million for
    2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. On an after-tax basis,
    stock-based compensation was $70 million, $55 million
    and $53 million for 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. As
    of December 31, 2010, there was $162 million of total
    unrecognized compensation cost related to nonvested share-based
    arrangements granted under the plans. That cost is expected to
    be recognized over a weighted-average period of 2.4 years
    as compensation expense.

Note 19       INCOME
    TAXES

The components of income tax expense were:

106     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

A reconciliation of expected income tax expense at the federal
    statutory rate of 35 percent to the Company s
    applicable income tax expense follows:

The tax effects of fair value adjustments on securities
     available-for-sale, 
    derivative instruments in cash flow hedges and certain tax
    benefits related to stock options are recorded directly to
    shareholders  equity as part of other comprehensive income
    (loss).

In preparing its tax returns, the Company is required to
    interpret complex tax laws and regulations and utilize income
    and cost allocation methods to determine its taxable income. On
    an ongoing basis, the Company is subject to examinations by
    federal, state and local government taxing authorities that may
    give rise to differing interpretations of these complex laws,
    regulations and methods. Due to the nature of the examination
    process, it generally takes years before these examinations are
    completed and matters are resolved. Included in earnings for
    2010, 2009 and 2008 were changes in income tax expense and
    associated liabilities related to the resolution of various
    state income tax examinations which cover varying years from
    2001 through 2008 in different states. The resolution of these
    cycles was the result of negotiations held between the Company
    and representatives of various taxing authorities throughout the
    examinations. Federal tax examinations for all years ending
    through December 31, 2006, are completed and resolved.
    During 2010, the Internal Revenue Service began its examination
    of the Company s tax returns for the years ended
    December 31, 2007 and 2008. The years open to examination
    by state and local government authorities vary by jurisdiction.

A reconciliation of the changes in the federal, state and
    foreign unrecognized tax positions balances are summarized as
    follows:

The total amount of unrecognized tax positions that, if
    recognized, would impact the effective income tax rate as of
    December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, were $253 million,
    $202 million and $187 million, respectively. The
    Company classifies interest and penalties related to
    unrecognized tax positions as a component of income tax expense.
    During the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008 the
    Company recognized approximately $(6) million,
    $13 million and $19 million, respectively, in interest
    and had approximately $49 million accrued at
    December 31, 2010. The ultimate deductibility is highly
    certain, however the timing of deductibility is uncertain.

While certain examinations may be concluded, statutes may lapse
    or other developments may occur, the Company does not believe a
    significant increase or decrease in the uncertain tax positions
    will occur over the next twelve months.

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities reflect the tax
    effect of estimated temporary differences between the carrying
    amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting
    purposes and the amounts used for the same items for income tax
    reporting purposes.

U.S. BANCORP   107 

Table of Contents   

The significant components of the Company s net deferred
    tax asset (liability) as of December 31 were:

The Company has established a valuation allowance to offset
    deferred tax assets related to federal, state and foreign net
    operating loss carryforwards which are subject to various
    limitations under the respective income tax laws and some of
    which may expire unused. The Company has approximately
    $573 million of federal, state and foreign net operating
    loss carryforwards which expire at various times through 2024.
    Management has determined a valuation reserve is not required
    for the remaining deferred tax assets because it is more likely
    than not these assets could be realized through carry back to
    taxable income in prior years, future reversals of existing
    taxable temporary differences and future taxable income.

Certain events covered by Internal Revenue Code
    section 593(e) will trigger a recapture of base year
    reserves of acquired thrift institutions. The base year reserves
    of acquired thrift institutions would be recaptured if an entity
    ceases to qualify as a bank for federal income tax purposes. The
    base year reserves of thrift institutions also remain subject to
    income tax penalty provisions that, in general, require
    recapture upon certain stock redemptions of, and excess
    distributions to, stockholders. At December 31, 2010,
    retained earnings included approximately $102 million of
    base year reserves for which no deferred federal income tax
    liability has been recognized.

Note 20       DERIVATIVE
    INSTRUMENTS

The Company recognizes all derivatives in the consolidated
    balance sheet at fair value as other assets or liabilities. On
    the date the Company enters into a derivative contract, the
    derivative is designated as either a hedge of the fair value of
    a recognized asset or liability ( fair value hedge 
    a hedge of a forecasted transaction or the variability of cash
    flows to be paid related to a recognized asset or liability
    ( cash flow hedge  a hedge of the volatility of an
    investment in foreign operations driven by changes in foreign
    currency exchange rates ( net investment hedge  or a
    designation is not made as it is a customer accommodation, an
    economic hedge for asset/liability risk management purposes or
    another stand-alone derivative created through the
    Company s operations ( free-standing derivative ).

Of the Company s $47.0 billion of total notional
    amount of asset and liability management positions at
    December 31, 2010, $8.4 billion was designated as a
    fair value, cash flow or net investment hedge. When a derivative
    is designated as a fair value, cash flow or net investment
    hedge, the Company performs an assessment, at inception and, at
    a minimum, quarterly thereafter, to determine the effectiveness
    of the derivative in offsetting changes in the value or cash
    flows of the hedged item(s).

Fair Value Hedges
       These derivatives are
    primarily interest rate swaps that hedge the change in fair
    value related to

108     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

interest rate changes of underlying fixed-rate debt and junior
    subordinated debentures. Changes in the fair value of
    derivatives designated as fair value hedges, and changes in the
    fair value of the hedged items, are recorded in earnings. All
    fair value hedges were highly effective for the year ended
    December 31, 2010, and the change in fair value attributed
    to hedge ineffectiveness was not material.

Cash Flow Hedges
       These derivatives are
    interest rate swaps that are hedges of the forecasted cash flows
    from the underlying variable-rate debt. Changes in the fair
    value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded
    in other comprehensive income (loss) until expense from the cash
    flows of the hedged items is realized. If a derivative
    designated as a cash flow hedge is terminated or ceases to be
    highly effective, the gain or loss in other comprehensive income
    (loss) is amortized to earnings over the period the forecasted
    hedged transactions impact earnings. If a hedged forecasted
    transaction is no longer probable, hedge accounting is ceased
    and any gain or loss included in other comprehensive income
    (loss) is reported in earnings immediately. At December 31,
    2010, the Company had $414 million (net-of-tax) of realized
    and unrealized losses on derivatives classified as cash flow
    hedges recorded in other comprehensive income (loss), compared
    with $327 million (net-of-tax) at December 31, 2009.
    The estimated amount to be reclassified from other comprehensive
    income (loss) into earnings during the next 12 months is a
    loss of $133 million (net-of-tax). This includes gains and
    losses related to hedges that were terminated early for which
    the forecasted transactions are still probable. All cash flow
    hedges were highly effective for the year ended
    December 31, 2010, and the change in fair value attributed
    to hedge ineffectiveness was not material.

Net Investment
    Hedges    The Company uses
    forward commitments to sell specified amounts of certain foreign
    currencies to hedge the volatility of its investment in foreign
    operations driven by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange
    rates. The net amount of related gains or losses included in the
    cumulative translation adjustment for the year ended
    December 31, 2010 was not material.

Other Derivative
    Positions    The Company
    enters into free-standing derivatives to mitigate interest rate
    risk and for other risk management purposes. These derivatives
    include forward commitments to sell residential mortgage loans,
    which are used to economically hedge the interest rate risk
    related to residential mortgage loans held for sale. The Company
    also enters into U.S. Treasury futures, options on
    U.S. Treasury futures contracts, interest rate swaps and
    forward commitments to buy residential mortgage loans to
    economically hedge the change in the fair value of the
    Company s residential MSRs. In addition, the Company acts
    as a seller and buyer of interest rate derivatives and foreign
    exchange contracts to accommodate its customers. To mitigate the
    market and liquidity risk associated with these customer
    accommodation derivatives, the Company enters into similar
    offsetting positions. The Company also has derivative contracts
    that are created through its operations, including commitments
    to originate mortgage loans held-for-sale and certain derivative
    financial guarantee contracts.

For additional information on the Company s purpose for
    entering into derivative transactions and its overall risk
    management strategies, refer to  Management Discussion and
    Analysis   Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate
    and Other Risks  which is incorporated by reference into
    these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

The following table provides information on the fair value of
    the Company s derivative positions:

Note:
    The fair value of asset and liability derivatives are included
    in Other assets and Other liabilities on the Consolidated
    Balance Sheet, respectively.  

(a)

Represents
    netting of derivative asset and liability balances, and related
    collateral, with the same counterparty subject to master netting
    agreements. Authoritative accounting guidance permits the
    netting of derivative receivables and payables when a legally
    enforceable master netting agreement exists between the Company
    and a derivative counterparty. A master netting agreement is an
    agreement between two counterparties who have multiple
    derivative contracts with each other that provide for the net
    settlement of contracts through a single payment, in a single
    currency, in the event of default on or termination of any one
    contract. At December 31, 2010, the amount of cash and
    money market investments collateral posted by counterparties
    that was netted against derivative assets was $55 million and
    the amount of cash collateral posted by the Company that was
    netted against derivative liabilities was $936 million. At
    December 31, 2009, the amount of cash collateral posted by
    counterparties that was netted against derivative assets was
    $116 million and the amount of cash collateral posted by
    the Company that was netted against derivative liabilities was
    $691 million.   

U.S. BANCORP   109 

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the asset and liability
    management derivative positions of the Company:

110     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the customer-related derivative
    positions of the Company:

(a)

Reflects
    the net of long and short positions.

The table below shows the effective portion of the gains
    (losses) recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) and the
    gains (losses) reclassified from other comprehensive income
    (loss) into earnings (net-of-tax):

Note:
    Ineffectiveness on cash flow and net investment hedges was not
    material for the year ended December 31, 2010.  

(a)

Gains
    (Losses) reclassified from other comprehensive income (loss)
    into interest income (expense) on long-term debt.

U.S. BANCORP   111 

Table of Contents   

The table below shows the gains (losses) recognized in earnings
    for fair value hedges, other economic hedges and the
    customer-related positions:

Gains (Losses) 

Recognized in
    Earnings

Location of Gains
    (Losses) 

Year Ended December
    31 (Dollars in Millions)

Recognized in
    Earnings

2010

2009

Asset and Liability Management Positions 

Fair value hedges (a)

Interest rate contracts

Other noninterest income

$

(31

)

$

(27

)

Foreign exchange cross-currency swaps

Other noninterest income

(193

)

115

Other economic hedges

Interest rate contracts

Futures and forwards

Mortgage banking revenue

831

184

Purchased and written options

Mortgage banking revenue

425

300

Foreign exchange forward contracts

Commercial products revenue

(16

)

(46

)

Equity contracts

Compensation expense

1

(22

)

Credit contracts

Other noninterest income/expense

(6

)

29

Customer-Related Positions 

Interest rate contracts

Receive fixed/pay floating swaps

Other noninterest income

201

(658

)

Pay fixed/receive floating swaps

Other noninterest income

(196

)

696

Purchased and written options

Other noninterest income

1

(1

)

Foreign exchange rate contracts

Forwards, spots and swaps

Commercial products revenue

49

49

Purchased and written options

Commercial products revenue

1

1

(a)

Gains
    (Losses) on items hedged by interest rate contracts and foreign
    exchange forward contracts, included in noninterest income
    (expense), were $35 million and $193 million for the
    year ended December 31, 2010, respectively, and
    $25 million and $(114) million for the year ended
    December 31, 2009, respectively. The ineffective portion
    was immaterial for the years ended December 31, 2010 and
    2009.   

Derivatives are subject to credit risk associated with
    counterparties to the derivative contracts. The Company measures
    that credit risk based on its assessment of the probability of
    counterparty default and includes that within the fair value of
    the derivative. The Company manages counterparty credit risk
    through diversification of its derivative positions among
    various counterparties, by entering into master netting
    agreements where possible and by requiring collateral agreements
    which allow the Company to call for immediate, full collateral
    coverage when credit-rating thresholds are triggered by
    counterparties.

The Company s collateral agreements are bilateral and,
    therefore, contain provisions that require collateralization of
    the Company s net liability derivative positions. Required
    collateral coverage is based on certain net liability thresholds
    and contingent upon the Company s credit rating from two of
    the nationally recognized statistical rating organizations. If
    the Company s credit rating were to fall below credit
    ratings thresholds established in the collateral agreements, the
    counterparties to the derivatives could request immediate full
    collateral coverage for derivatives in net liability positions.
    The aggregate fair value of all derivatives under collateral
    agreements that were in a net liability position at
    December 31, 2010, was $1.4 billion. At December 31,
    2010, the Company had $936 million of cash posted as collateral
    against this net liability position.

112     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Note 21       

FAIR VALUES OF
    ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

The Company uses fair value measurements for the initial
    recording of certain assets and liabilities, periodic
    remeasurement of certain assets and liabilities, and
    disclosures. Derivatives, trading and
     available-for-sale 
    investment securities, certain mortgage loans held for sale
    ( MLHFS ) and MSRs are recorded at fair value on a
    recurring basis. Additionally, from time to time, the Company
    may be required to record at fair value other assets on a
    nonrecurring basis, such as loans held for sale, loans held for
    investment and certain other assets. These nonrecurring fair
    value adjustments typically involve application of
     lower-of-cost-or-fair 
    value accounting or impairment write-downs of individual assets.

Fair value is defined as the exchange price that would be
    received for an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit
    price) in the principal or most advantageous market for the
    asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market
    participants on the measurement date. A fair value measurement
    reflects all of the assumptions that market participants would
    use in pricing the asset or liability, including assumptions
    about the risk inherent in a particular valuation technique, the
    effect of a restriction on the sale or use of an asset, and the
    risk of nonperformance.

The Company groups its assets and liabilities measured at fair
    value into a three-level hierarchy for valuation techniques used
    to measure financial assets and financial liabilities at fair
    value. This hierarchy is based on whether the valuation inputs
    are observable or unobservable. These levels are:

Level 1   Quoted prices in active markets for
    identical assets or liabilities. Level 1 includes
    U.S. Treasury and exchange-traded instruments.

Level 2   Observable inputs other than
    Level 1 prices, such as quoted prices for similar assets or
    liabilities; quoted prices in markets that are not active; or
    other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by
    observable market data for substantially the full term of the
    assets or liabilities. Level 2 includes debt securities
    that are traded less frequently than exchange-traded instruments
    and which are valued using third-party pricing services;
    derivative contracts whose value is determined using a pricing
    model with inputs that are observable in the market or can be
    derived principally from or corroborated by observable market
    data; and MLHFS whose values are determined using quoted prices
    for similar assets or pricing models with inputs that are
    observable in the market or can be corroborated by observable
    market data.

Level 3   Unobservable inputs that are supported
    by little or no market activity and that are significant to the
    fair value of the assets or liabilities. Level 3 assets and
    liabilities include financial instruments whose values are
    determined using pricing models, discounted cash flow
    methodologies, or similar techniques, as well as instruments for
    which the determination of fair value requires significant
    management judgment or estimation. This category includes
    residential MSRs, certain debt securities, including the
    Company s SIV-related securities and non-agency
    mortgaged-backed securities, and certain derivative contracts.

When the Company changes its valuation inputs for measuring
    financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value, either
    due to changes in current market conditions or other factors, it
    may need to transfer those assets or liabilities to another
    level in the hierarchy based on the new inputs used. The Company
    recognizes these transfers at the end of the reporting period
    that the transfers occur. For the years ended December 31,
    2010 and 2009, there were no significant transfers of financial
    assets or financial liabilities between the hierarchy levels,
    except for the transfer of non-agency mortgage-backed securities
    from Level 2 to Level 3 in the first quarter of 2009,
    as discussed below.

The following section describes the valuation methodologies used
    by the Company to measure financial assets and liabilities at
    fair value and for estimating fair value for financial
    instruments not recorded at fair value as required under
    disclosure guidance related to the fair value of financial
    instruments. In addition, for financial assets and liabilities
    measured at fair value, the following section includes an
    indication of the level of the fair value hierarchy in which the
    assets or liabilities are classified. Where appropriate, the
    description includes information about the valuation models and
    key inputs to those models.

Cash and Cash
    Equivalents    The carrying
    value of cash, amounts due from banks, federal funds sold and
    securities purchased under resale agreements was assumed to
    approximate fair value.

Investment
    Securities    When
    available, quoted market prices are used to determine the fair
    value of investment securities and such items are classified
    within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.

U.S. BANCORP   113 

Table of Contents   

For other securities, the Company determines fair value based on
    various sources and may apply matrix pricing with observable
    prices for similar securities where a price for the identical
    security is not observable. Prices are verified, where possible,
    to prices of observable market trades as obtained from
    independent sources. Securities measured at fair value by such
    methods are classified within Level 2.

The fair value of securities for which there are no market
    trades, or where trading is inactive as compared to normal
    market activity, are classified within Level 3. Securities
    classified within Level 3 include non-agency
    mortgage-backed securities, non-agency commercial
    mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities,
    collateralized debt obligations and collateralized loan
    obligations, certain corporate debt securities and SIV-related
    securities. Beginning in the first quarter of 2009, due to the
    limited number of trades of non-agency mortgage-backed
    securities and lack of reliable evidence about transaction
    prices, the Company determines the fair value of these
    securities using a cash flow methodology and incorporating
    observable market information, where available. The use of a
    cash flow methodology resulted in the Company transferring some
    non-agency mortgage-backed securities to Level 3 in the
    first quarter of 2009. This transfer did not impact earnings and
    was not significant to shareholders  equity of the Company
    or the carrying amount of the securities.

Cash flow methodologies and other market valuation techniques
    involving management judgment use assumptions regarding housing
    prices, interest rates and borrower performance. Inputs are
    refined and updated to reflect market developments. The primary
    valuation drivers of these securities are the prepayment rates,
    default rates and default severities associated with the
    underlying collateral, as well as the discount rate used to
    calculate the present value of the projected cash flows.

The following table shows the valuation assumption ranges for
    Level 3
     available-for-sale 
    non-agency mortgage-backed securities at December 31, 2010:

(a)

Prime
    securities are those designated as such by the issuer or those
    with underlying asset characteristics and/or credit enhancements
    consistent with securities designated as prime.   

Certain mortgage
    loans held for sale
       MLHFS measured at fair
    value, for which an active secondary market and readily
    available market prices exist, are initially valued at the
    transaction price and are subsequently valued by comparison to
    instruments with similar collateral and risk profiles. MLHFS are
    classified within Level 2. Included in mortgage banking
    revenue was a $125 million net loss and a $206 million
    net gain, for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively, from the changes to fair value of these MLHFS
    under fair value option accounting guidance. Changes in fair
    value due to instrument specific credit risk were immaterial.
    The fair value of MLHFS was $8.1 billion as of
    December 31, 2010, which exceeded the unpaid principal
    balance by $66 million as of that date. Interest income for
    MLHFS is measured based on contractual interest rates and
    reported as interest income in the Consolidated Statement of
    Income. Electing to measure MLHFS at fair value reduces certain
    timing differences and better matches changes in fair value of
    these assets with changes in the value of the derivative
    instruments used to economically hedge them without the burden
    of complying with the requirements for hedge accounting.

Loans
       The loan portfolio
    includes adjustable and fixed-rate loans, the fair value of
    which was estimated using discounted cash flow analyses and
    other valuation techniques. The expected cash flows of loans
    considered historical prepayment experiences and estimated
    credit losses for nonperforming loans and were discounted using
    current rates offered to borrowers of similar credit
    characteristics. Generally, loan fair values reflect
    Level 3 information.

Mortgage
    servicing rights    MSRs
    are valued using a cash flow methodology and third-party prices,
    if available. Accordingly, MSRs are classified within
    Level 3. The Company determines fair value by estimating
    the present value of the asset s future cash flows using
    market-based prepayment rates, discount rates, and other
    assumptions validated through comparison to trade information,
    industry surveys, and independent third-party valuations. Risks
    inherent in MSRs valuation include higher than expected
    prepayment rates
     and/or 
    delayed receipt of cash flows.

114     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Derivatives
       Exchange-traded
    derivatives are measured at fair value based on quoted market
    (i.e., exchange) prices. Because prices are available for the
    identical instrument in an active market, these fair values are
    classified within Level 1 of the fair value hierarchy.

The majority of derivatives held by the Company are executed
     over-the-counter 
    and are valued using standard cash flow, Black-Scholes and Monte
    Carlo valuation techniques. The models incorporate inputs,
    depending on the type of derivative, including interest rate
    curves, foreign exchange rates and volatility. In addition, all
    derivative values incorporate an assessment of the risk of
    counterparty nonperformance, measured based on the
    Company s evaluation of credit risk as well as external
    assessments of credit risk, where available. In its assessment
    of nonperformance risk, the Company considers its ability to net
    derivative positions under master netting agreements, as well as
    collateral received or provided under collateral support
    agreements. The majority of these derivatives are classified
    within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy as the
    significant inputs to the models are observable. An exception to
    the Level 2 classification is certain derivative
    transactions for which the risk of nonperformance cannot be
    observed in the market. These derivatives are classified within
    Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. In addition,
    commitments to sell, purchase and originate mortgage loans that
    meet the requirements of a derivative, are valued by pricing
    models that include market observable and unobservable inputs.
    Due to the significant unobservable inputs, these commitments
    are classified within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy.

Deposit
    Liabilities    The fair
    value of demand deposits, savings accounts and certain money
    market deposits is equal to the amount payable on demand. The
    fair value of fixed-rate certificates of deposit was estimated
    by discounting the contractual cash flow using current market
    rates.

Short-term
    Borrowings    Federal funds
    purchased, securities sold under agreements to repurchase,
    commercial paper and other short-term funds borrowed have
    floating rates or short-term maturities. The fair value of
    short-term borrowings was determined by discounting contractual
    cash flows using current market rates.

Long-term Debt
       The fair value for most
    long-term debt was determined by discounting contractual cash
    flows using current market rates. Junior subordinated debt
    instruments were valued using market quotes.

Loan Commitments,
    Letters of Credit and Guarantees
       The fair value of
    commitments, letters of credit and guarantees represents the
    estimated costs to terminate or otherwise settle the obligations
    with a third-party. The fair value of residential mortgage
    commitments is estimated based on observable and unobservable
    inputs. Other loan commitments, letters of credit and guarantees
    are not actively traded, and the Company estimates their fair
    value based on the related amount of unamortized deferred
    commitment fees adjusted for the probable losses for these
    arrangements.

U.S. BANCORP   115 

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the balances of assets and
    liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis:

116     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

The following table presents the changes in fair value for all
    assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring
    basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3):

(a)

Approximately
    $(91) million included in securities gains (losses) and
    $61 million included in interest income.   

(b)

Included
    in mortgage banking revenue.   

(c)

Approximately
    $(552) million included in other noninterest income and
    $795 million included in mortgage banking
    revenue.   

(d)

Approximately
    $176 million included in other noninterest income and
    $(801) million included in mortgage banking
    revenue.   

(e)

Approximately
    $(361) million included in securities gains (losses) and
    $31 million included in interest income.   

(f)

Approximately
    $(1.4) billion included in other noninterest income and
    $611 million included in mortgage banking
    revenue.   

(g)

Approximately
    $(630) million included in other noninterest income and
    $(698) million included in mortgage banking
    revenue.   

U.S. BANCORP   117 

Table of Contents   

The Company is also required periodically to measure certain
    other financial assets at fair value on a nonrecurring basis.
    These measurements of fair value usually result from the
    application of
     lower-of-cost-or-fair 
    value accounting or
     write-downs 
    of individual assets. The following table summarizes the
    adjusted carrying values and the level of valuation assumptions
    for assets measured at fair value on a nonrecurring basis at
    December 31:

(a)

Represents
    the carrying value of loans held for sale for which adjustments
    are based on what secondary markets are currently offering for
    portfolios with similar characteristics.   

(b)

Represents
    the carrying value of loans for which adjustments are based on
    the appraised value of the collateral, excluding loans fully
    charged-off.   

(c)

Represents
    the fair value of foreclosed properties that were measured at
    fair value based on the appraisal value of the collateral
    subsequent to their initial acquisition.   

The following table summarizes losses recognized related to
    nonrecurring fair value measurements of individual assets or
    portfolios for the year ended December 31:

(a)

Represents
    write-downs of loans which are based on the appraised value of
    the collateral, excluding loans fully charged-off.   

(b)

Represents
    related losses of foreclosed properties that were measured at
    fair value subsequent to their initial acquisition.   

FAIR VALUE OPTION

The following table summarizes the differences between the
    aggregate fair value carrying amount of MLHFS for which the fair
    value option has been elected and the aggregate unpaid principal
    amount that the Company is contractually obligated to receive at
    maturity:

Disclosures about
    Fair Value of Financial Instruments
       The following table
    summarizes the estimated fair value for financial instruments as
    of December 31, 2010 and 2009, and includes financial
    instruments that are not accounted for at fair value. In
    accordance with disclosure guidance related to fair values of
    financial instruments, the Company did not include assets and
    liabilities that are not financial instruments, such as the
    value of goodwill, long-term relationships with deposit, credit
    card, merchant processing and trust customers, other purchased
    intangibles, premises and equipment, deferred taxes and other
    liabilities.

118     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

The estimated fair values of the Company s financial
    instruments are shown in the table below:

(a)

Balance
    excludes mortgages held for sale for which the fair value option
    under applicable accounting guidance was elected.   

The fair value of unfunded commitments, standby letters of
    credit and other guarantees is approximately equal to their
    carrying value. The carrying value of unfunded commitments and
    standby letters of credit was $353 million and
    $356 million at December 31, 2010 and 2009,
    respectively. The carrying value of other guarantees was $330
    million and $285 million at December 31, 2010 and
    2009, respectively.

Note 22       GUARANTEES
    AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

COMMITMENTS TO
    EXTEND CREDIT

Commitments to extend credit are legally binding and generally
    have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses. The
    contractual amount represents the Company s exposure to
    credit loss, in the event of default by the borrower. The
    Company manages this credit risk by using the same credit
    policies it applies to loans. Collateral is obtained to secure
    commitments based on management s credit assessment of the
    borrower. The collateral may include marketable securities,
    receivables, inventory, equipment and real estate. Since the
    Company expects many of the commitments to expire without being
    drawn, total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent the
    Company s future liquidity requirements. In addition, the
    commitments include consumer credit lines that are cancelable
    upon notification to the consumer.

LETTERS OF CREDIT

Standby letters of credit are commitments the Company issues to
    guarantee the performance of a customer to a third-party. The
    guarantees frequently support public and private borrowing
    arrangements, including commercial paper issuances, bond
    financings and other similar transactions. The Company issues
    commercial letters of credit on behalf of customers to ensure
    payment or collection in connection with trade transactions. In
    the event of a customer s nonperformance, the
    Company s credit loss exposure is the same as in any
    extension of credit, up to the letter s contractual amount.
    Management assesses the borrower s credit to determine the
    necessary collateral, which may include marketable securities,
    receivables, inventory, equipment and real estate. Since the
    conditions requiring the Company to fund letters of credit may
    not occur, the Company expects its liquidity requirements to be
    less than the total outstanding commitments. The maximum
    potential future payments guaranteed by the Company under
    standby letter of credit arrangements at December 31, 2010,
    were approximately $19.4 billion with a weighted-average
    term of approximately 18 months. The estimated fair value
    of standby letters of credit was approximately $105 million
    at December 31, 2010.

The contract or notional amounts of unfunded commitments to
    extend credit and letters of credit at December 31, 2010,
    were as follows:

(a)

Primarily
    cancelable at the Company s discretion.   

U.S. BANCORP   119 

Table of Contents   

LEASE COMMITMENTS

Rental expense for operating leases totaled $277 million in
    2010, $253 million in 2009 and $234 million in 2008.
    Future minimum payments, net of sublease rentals, under
    capitalized leases and noncancelable operating leases with
    initial or remaining terms of one year or more, consisted of the
    following at December 31, 2010:

GUARANTEES

Guarantees are contingent commitments issued by the Company to
    customers or other third-parties. The Company s guarantees
    primarily include parent guarantees related to
    subsidiaries  third-party borrowing arrangements;
    third-party performance guarantees inherent in the
    Company s business operations, such as indemnified
    securities lending programs and merchant charge-back guarantees;
    indemnification or buy-back provisions related to certain asset
    sales; and contingent consideration arrangements related to
    acquisitions. For certain guarantees, the Company has recorded a
    liability related to the potential obligation, or has access to
    collateral to support the guarantee or through the exercise of
    other recourse provisions can offset some or all of the maximum
    potential future payments made under these guarantees.

Third-Party
    Borrowing Arrangements    
    The Company provides guarantees to third-parties as a part of
    certain subsidiaries  borrowing arrangements, primarily
    representing guaranteed operating or capital lease payments or
    other debt obligations with maturity dates extending through
    2013. The maximum potential future payments guaranteed by the
    Company under these arrangements were approximately
    $131 million at December 31, 2010.

Commitments from
    Securities Lending      The
    Company participates in securities lending activities by acting
    as the customer s agent involving the loan of securities.
    The Company indemnifies customers for the difference between the
    market value of the securities lent and the market value of the
    collateral received. Cash collateralizes these transactions. The
    maximum potential future payments guaranteed by the Company
    under these arrangements were approximately $7.8 billion at
    December 31, 2010, and represented the market value of the
    securities lent to third-parties. At December 31, 2010, the
    Company held assets with a market value of $8.1 billion as
    collateral for these arrangements.

Asset Sales
         The Company has
    provided guarantees to certain third-parties in connection with
    the sale or syndication of certain assets, primarily loan
    portfolios and low-income housing tax credits. These guarantees
    are generally in the form of asset buy-back or make-whole
    provisions that are triggered upon a credit event or a change in
    the tax-qualifying status of the related projects, as
    applicable, and remain in effect until the loans are collected
    or final tax credits are realized, respectively. The maximum
    potential future payments guaranteed by the Company under these
    arrangements were approximately $1.6 billion at
    December 31, 2010, and represented the proceeds received
    from the buyer or the guaranteed portion in these transactions
    where the buy-back or make-whole provisions have not yet
    expired. The maximum potential future payments does not include
    loan sales where the Company provides standard representations
    and warranties to the buyer against losses related to loan
    underwriting documentation. For these types of loan sales, the
    maximum potential future payments are not readily determinable
    because the Company s obligation under these agreements
    depends upon the occurrence of future events.

The Company regularly sells loans to government-sponsored
    entities ( GSEs ) as part of its mortgage banking
    activities. The Company provides customary representations and
    warranties to the GSEs in conjunction with these sales. These
    representations and warranties generally require the Company to
    repurchase assets if it is subsequently determined that a loan
    did not meet specified criteria, such as a documentation
    deficiency or rescission of mortgage insurance. If the Company
    is unable to cure or refute a repurchase request, the Company is
    generally obligated to repurchase the loan or otherwise
    reimburse the counterparty for losses. At December 31,
    2010, the Company had reserved $180 million for potential
    losses from representations and warranty obligations. The
    reserve is based on the Company s repurchase and loss
    trends, and quantitative and qualitative factors that may result
    in anticipated losses different from historical loss trends,

120     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

including loan vintage, underwriting characteristics and
    macroeconomic trends.

Recourse available to the Company under asset sales arrangements
    includes guarantees from the Small Business Administration (for
    Small Business Administration loans sold), recourse against the
    correspondent that originated the loan or to the private
    mortgage issuer, the right to collect payments from the debtors,
     and/or  the
    right to liquidate the underlying collateral, if any, and retain
    the proceeds. Based on its established
     loan-to-value 
    guidelines, the Company believes the recourse available is
    sufficient to recover future payments, if any, under the loan
    buy-back guarantees.

Merchant
    Processing      The
    Company, through its subsidiaries, provides merchant processing
    services. Under the rules of credit card associations, a
    merchant processor retains a contingent liability for credit
    card transactions processed. This contingent liability arises in
    the event of a billing dispute between the merchant and a
    cardholder that is ultimately resolved in the cardholder s
    favor. In this situation, the transaction is
     charged-back  to the merchant and the disputed amount
    is credited or otherwise refunded to the cardholder. If the
    Company is unable to collect this amount from the merchant, it
    bears the loss for the amount of the refund paid to the
    cardholder.

A cardholder, through its issuing bank, generally has until the
    latter of up to four months after the date the transaction is
    processed or the receipt of the product or service to present a
    charge-back to the Company as the merchant processor. The
    absolute maximum potential liability is estimated to be the
    total volume of credit card transactions that meet the
    associations  requirements to be valid charge-back
    transactions at any given time. Management estimates that the
    maximum potential exposure for charge-backs would approximate
    the total amount of merchant transactions processed through the
    credit card associations for the last four months. For the last
    four months this amount totaled approximately
    $69.7 billion. In most cases, this contingent liability is
    unlikely to arise, as most products and services are delivered
    when purchased and amounts are refunded when items are returned
    to merchants. However, where the product or service is not
    provided until a future date ( future delivery ), the
    potential for this contingent liability increases. To mitigate
    this risk, the Company may require the merchant to make an
    escrow deposit, may place maximum volume limitations on future
    delivery transactions processed by the merchant at any point in
    time, or may require various credit enhancements (including
    letters of credit and bank guarantees). Also, merchant
    processing contracts may include event triggers to provide the
    Company more financial and operational control in the event of
    financial deterioration of the merchant.

The Company s primary exposure to future delivery is
    related to merchant processing for airline companies, where it
    currently processes card transactions in the United States,
    Canada and Europe for these merchants. In the event of
    liquidation of these merchants, the Company could become
    financially liable for refunding tickets purchased through the
    credit card associations under the charge-back provisions.
    Charge-back risk related to these merchants is evaluated in a
    manner similar to credit risk assessments and, as such, merchant
    processing contracts contain various provisions to protect the
    Company in the event of default. At December 31, 2010, the
    value of airline tickets purchased to be delivered at a future
    date was $4.1 billion. The Company held collateral of
    $377 million in escrow deposits, letters of credit and
    indemnities from financial institutions, and liens on various
    assets. With respect to future delivery risk for other
    merchants, the Company held $31 million of merchant escrow
    deposits as collateral. In addition to specific collateral or
    other credit enhancements, the Company maintains a liability for
    its implied guarantees associated with future delivery. At
    December 31, 2010, the liability was $57 million
    primarily related to these airline processing arrangements.

In the normal course of business, the Company has unresolved
    charge-backs. The Company assesses the likelihood of its
    potential liability based on the extent and nature of unresolved
    charge-backs and its historical loss experience. At
    December 31, 2010, the Company had a recorded liability for
    potential losses of $15 million.

Contingent
    Consideration Arrangements
         The Company has
    contingent payment obligations related to certain business
    combination transactions. Payments are guaranteed as long as
    certain post-acquisition performance-based criteria are met or
    customer relationships are maintained. At December 31,
    2010, the maximum potential future payments required to be made
    by the Company under these arrangements was approximately
    $5 million. If required, the majority of these contingent
    payments are payable within the next 12 months.

Minimum Revenue
    Guarantees      In the
    normal course of business, the Company may enter into revenue
    share agreements with third-party business partners who generate
    customer referrals or provide marketing or other services
    related to the generation of revenue. In certain of these
    agreements, the Company may guarantee that a minimum

U.S. BANCORP   121 

Table of Contents   

amount of revenue share payments will be made to the third-party
    over a specified period of time. At December 31, 2010, the
    maximum potential future payments required to be made by the
    Company under these agreements was $13 million.

Other Guarantees
         The Company has also
    made financial performance guarantees related to the operations
    of its subsidiaries. The maximum potential future payments
    guaranteed by the Company under these arrangements were
    approximately $8.1 billion at December 31, 2010.

OTHER CONTINGENT
    LIABILITIES

Visa
    Restructuring and Card Association Litigation
         The Company s
    payment services business issues and acquires credit and debit
    card transactions through the Visa U.S.A. Inc. card association
    or its affiliates (collectively  Visa ). In 2007, Visa
    completed a restructuring and issued shares of Visa Inc. common
    stock to its financial institution members in contemplation of
    its initial public offering ( IPO ) completed in the
    first quarter of 2008 (the  Visa Reorganization ). As
    a part of the Visa Reorganization, the Company received its
    proportionate number of shares of Visa Inc. common stock, which
    were subsequently converted to Class B shares of Visa Inc.
    ( Class B shares ). In addition, the Company and
    certain of its subsidiaries have been named as defendants along
    with Visa U.S.A. Inc. ( Visa U.S.A. ) and MasterCard
    International (collectively, the  Card Associations ),
    as well as several other banks, in antitrust lawsuits
    challenging the practices of the Card Associations (the
     Visa Litigation ). Visa U.S.A. member banks have a
    contingent obligation to indemnify Visa Inc. under the Visa
    U.S.A. bylaws (which were modified at the time of the
    restructuring in October 2007) for potential losses arising
    from the Visa Litigation. The indemnification by the Visa U.S.A.
    member banks has no specific maximum amount. The Company has
    also entered into judgment and loss sharing agreements with Visa
    U.S.A. and certain other banks in order to apportion financial
    responsibilities arising from any potential adverse judgment or
    negotiated settlements related to the Visa Litigation.

In 2007 and 2008, Visa announced settlement agreements relating
    to certain of the Visa Litigation matters. Visa U.S.A. member
    banks remain obligated to indemnify Visa Inc. for potential
    losses arising from the remaining Visa Litigation. Using
    proceeds from its initial IPO and through subsequent reductions
    to the conversion ratio applicable to the Class B shares
    held by Visa U.S.A. member banks, Visa Inc. has established an
    escrow account for the benefit of member financial institutions
    to fund the expenses of the Visa Litigation, as well as the
    members  proportionate share of any judgments or
    settlements that may arise out of the Visa Litigation. The
    receivable related to the escrow account is classified in other
    liabilities as a direct offset to the related Visa Litigation
    contingent liability, and will decline as amounts are paid out
    of the escrow account. During the third quarter of 2009 and the
    second and fourth quarters of 2010, Visa deposited additional
    funds into the escrow account and further reduced the conversion
    ratio applicable to the Class B shares. As a result, the
    Company recognized gains of $39 million, $28 million
    and $44 million during the third quarter of 2009 and second
    and fourth quarters of 2010, respectively, related to the
    effective repurchase of a portion of its Class B shares.

At December 31, 2010, the carrying amount of the
    Company s liability related to the remaining Visa
    Litigation matters, was $48 million. Class B shares
    are non-transferable, except for transfers to other Visa U.S.A.
    member banks. The remaining Class B shares held by the
    Company will be eligible for conversion to Class A shares
    in 2011 or upon settlement of the Visa Litigation, whichever is
    later.

Checking Account
    Overdraft Fee Litigation
         The Company is a
    defendant in three separate cases primarily challenging the
    Company s daily ordering of debit transactions posted to
    customer checking accounts for the period from 2003 to 2010. The
    plaintiffs have requested class action treatment, however, no
    class has been certified. The court has denied a motion by the
    Company to dismiss these cases. The Company believes it has
    meritorious defenses against these matters, including class
    certification. As these cases are in the early stages and no
    damages have been specified, no specific loss range or range of
    loss can be determined currently.

Other
         The Company is subject
    to various other litigation, investigations and legal and
    administrative cases and proceedings that arise in the ordinary
    course of its businesses. Due to their complex nature, it may be
    years before some matters are resolved. While it is impossible
    to ascertain the ultimate resolution or range of financial
    liability with respect to these contingent matters, the Company
    believes that the aggregate amount of such liabilities will not
    have a material adverse effect on the financial condition,
    results of operations or cash flows of the Company.

122     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Note 23       U.S.
    BANCORP (PARENT COMPANY)

CONDENSED BALANCE
    SHEET

CONDENSED STATEMENT
    OF INCOME

U.S. BANCORP   123 

Table of Contents   

CONDENSED STATEMENT
    OF CASH FLOWS

Transfer of funds (dividends, loans or advances) from bank
    subsidiaries to the Company is restricted. Federal law requires
    loans to the Company or its affiliates to be secured and
    generally limits loans to the Company or an individual affiliate
    to 10 percent of each bank s unimpaired capital and
    surplus. In the aggregate, loans to the Company and all
    affiliates cannot exceed 20 percent of each bank s
    unimpaired capital and surplus.

Dividend payments to the Company by its subsidiary banks are
    subject to regulatory review and statutory limitations and, in
    some instances, regulatory approval. The approval of the Office
    of the Comptroller of the Currency is required if total
    dividends by a national bank in any calendar year exceed the
    bank s net income for that year combined with its retained
    net income for the preceding two calendar years, or if the
    bank s retained earnings are less than zero. Furthermore,
    dividends are restricted by the Comptroller of the
    Currency s minimum capital constraints for all national
    banks. Within these guidelines, all bank subsidiaries have the
    ability to pay dividends without prior regulatory approval. The
    amount of dividends available to the parent company from the
    bank subsidiaries at December 31, 2010, was approximately
    $5.8 billion.

Note 24       SUBSEQUENT
    EVENTS

The Company has evaluated the impact of events that have
    occurred subsequent to December 31, 2010 through the date
    the consolidated financial statements were filed with the United
    States Securities and Exchange Commission. Based on this
    evaluation, the Company has determined none of these events were
    required to be recognized or disclosed in the consolidated
    financial statements and related notes.

124     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

U.S.
    Bancorp

Consolidated
    Balance Sheet  
     Five  Year
    Summary (Unaudited)

* Not
    meaningful  

U.S. BANCORP   125 

Table of Contents   

U.S.
    Bancorp

Consolidated
    Statement of Income   Five-Year Summary (Unaudited)

* Not
    meaningful  

126     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

U.S.
    Bancorp

Quarterly
    Consolidated Financial Data (Unaudited)

U.S. BANCORP   127 

Table of Contents   

U.S.
    Bancorp

Consolidated
    Daily Average Balance Sheet and

*

Not
    meaningful   

(a)

Interest
    and rates are presented on a fully taxable-equivalent basis
    utilizing a tax rate of 35 percent.   

(b)

Interest
    income and rates on loans include loan fees. Nonaccrual loans
    are included in average loan balances.   

128     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Related
    Yields And Rates (a) (Unaudited)

U.S. BANCORP   129 

Table of Contents   

U.S.
    Bancorp

Supplemental
    Financial Data (Unaudited)

(a)

Defined
    as total common shares less common stock held in treasury at
    December 31.   

(b)

Based
    on number of common stock shareholders of record at
    December 31.   

STOCK PRICE RANGE
    AND DIVIDENDS

The common stock of U.S. Bancorp is traded on the New York
    Stock Exchange, under the ticker symbol  USB.  At
    January 31, 2011, there were 55,191 holders of record of
    the Company s common stock.

STOCK PERFORMANCE
    CHART

The following chart compares the cumulative total shareholder
    return on the Company s common stock during the five years
    ended December 31, 2010, with the cumulative total return
    on the Standard   Poor s 500 Index, the Standard
      Poor s 500 Commercial Bank Index (the  Old
    Index ) and the KBW Bank Index.  Historically, the Company
    has used the Old Index to compare its relative performance.
    Effective in 2010, the Company adopted the KBW Bank Index as a
    replacement for the Old Index. The Company believes the KBW Bank
    Index provides a more appropriate comparison for assessing its
    relative performance. The Old Index is market
    capitalization-weighted and at December 31, 2010, one large
    constituent company and the Company comprised more than 47
    percent and 15 percent of the Old Index, respectively,
    diminishing its appropriateness as a comparison index.
    Comparatively, at December 31, 2010, the KBW Bank Index was
    comprised of 24 companies with its largest constituent company
    comprising approximately 8 percent of the index. The comparison
    assumes $100 was invested on December 31, 2005, in the
    Company s common stock and in each of the foregoing indices
    and assumes the reinvestment of all dividends. The comparisons
    in the graph are based upon historical data and are not
    indicative of, nor intended to forecast, future performance of
    the Company s common stock.

MDA Tables Throw Away Note and Keep Tables

130     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Company
    Information

General Business
    Description
       U.S. Bancorp is a
    multi-state financial services holding company headquartered in
    Minneapolis, Minnesota. U.S. Bancorp was incorporated in
    Delaware in 1929 and operates as a financial holding company and
    a bank holding company under the Bank Holding Company Act of
    1956. U.S. Bancorp provides a full range of financial
    services, including lending and depository services, cash
    management, foreign exchange and trust and investment management
    services. It also engages in credit card services, merchant and
    ATM processing, mortgage banking, insurance, brokerage and
    leasing.

U.S. Bancorp s banking subsidiaries are engaged in the
    general banking business, principally in domestic markets. The
    subsidiaries range in size from $53 million to
    $211 billion in deposits and provide a wide range of
    products and services to individuals, businesses, institutional
    organizations, governmental entities and other financial
    institutions. Commercial and consumer lending services are
    principally offered to customers within the Company s
    domestic markets, to domestic customers with foreign operations
    and within certain niche national venues. Lending services
    include traditional credit products as well as credit card
    services, financing and import/export trade, asset-backed
    lending, agricultural finance and other products. Leasing
    products are offered through bank leasing subsidiaries.
    Depository services include checking accounts, savings accounts
    and time certificate contracts. Ancillary services such as
    foreign exchange, treasury management and receivable lock-box
    collection are provided to corporate customers.
    U.S. Bancorp s bank and trust subsidiaries provide a
    full range of asset management and fiduciary services for
    individuals, estates, foundations, business corporations and
    charitable organizations.

U.S. Bancorp s non-banking subsidiaries primarily
    offer investment and insurance products to the Company s
    customers principally within its markets, and mutual fund
    processing services to a broad range of mutual funds.

Banking and investment services are provided through a network
    of 3,031 banking offices principally operating in the Midwest
    and West regions of the United States. The Company operates a
    network of 5,310 ATMs and provides
     24-hour, 
    seven day a week telephone customer service. Mortgage banking
    services are provided through banking offices and loan
    production offices throughout the Company s markets.
    Consumer lending products may be originated through banking
    offices, indirect correspondents, brokers or other lending
    sources, and a consumer finance division. The Company is also
    one of the largest providers of
    Visa   

    corporate and purchasing card services and corporate trust
    services in the United States. A wholly-owned subsidiary,
    Elavon, Inc. ( Elavon ), provides merchant processing
    services directly to merchants and through a network of banking
    affiliations. Affiliates of Elavon provide similar merchant
    services in Canada and segments of Europe. These foreign
    operations are not significant to the Company.

On a full-time equivalent basis, as of December 31, 2010,
    U.S. Bancorp employed 60,584 people.

Risk Factors
       The following factors
    may adversely affect the Company s business, financial
    results or stock price.

Industry Risk
    Factors   

Difficult
    business and economic conditions may continue to adversely
    affect the financial services industry
        The Company s
    business activities and earnings are affected by general
    business conditions in the United States and abroad. In 2010,
    the domestic and global economies generally began to stabilize
    from the dramatic downturn experienced in 2008 and 2009. The
    economic downturn resulted in negative effects on the business,
    financial condition and results of operations of financial
    institutions in the United States and other countries. However,
    domestic and global economies continue to remain unsteady and
    worsening of current financial market conditions could
    materially and adversely affect the Company s business,
    financial condition, results of operations, access to credit or
    the trading price of the Company s common stock. Dramatic
    declines in the housing and commercial real estate markets over
    the past several years, with falling real estate prices and
    increasing foreclosures and unemployment, continue to negatively
    impact the credit performance of real estate related loans and
    have resulted in significant write-downs of asset values by
    financial institutions. These write-downs have caused many
    financial institutions to seek additional capital, to reduce or
    eliminate dividends, to merge with larger and stronger
    institutions and, in some cases, to fail. Market developments
    may further erode consumer confidence levels and may cause
    adverse changes in payment patterns, causing increases in
    delinquencies and default rates, which may impact the
    Company s charge-offs and provision for credit losses.
    Additional economic deterioration that affects household
     and/or 
    corporate incomes could also result in reduced demand for credit
    or fee-based products and services. A worsening of these
    conditions would likely exacerbate the lingering effects of the
    difficult market conditions experienced by the Company and
    others in the financial services industry.

U.S. BANCORP   131 

Table of Contents   

The Company
    may be adversely affected by recently passed and proposed
    legislation and
    rulemaking    
        The United States
    government and the Company s regulators have recently
    passed and proposed legislation and rules that impact the
    Company, and the Company expects to continue to face increased
    regulation. These laws and regulations may affect the manner in
    which the Company does business and the products and services
    that it provides, affect or restrict the Company s ability
    to compete in its current businesses or its ability to enter
    into or acquire new businesses, reduce or limit the
    Company s revenue or impose additional fees, assessments or
    taxes on the Company, intensify the regulatory supervision of
    the Company and the financial services industry, and adversely
    affect the Company s business operations or have other
    negative consequences.

The Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act
    was signed into law in 2010. This legislation, among other
    things, establishes a Consumer Financial Protection Bureau with
    broad authority to administer and enforce a new federal
    regulatory framework of consumer financial regulation, changes
    the base for deposit insurance assessments, introduces
    regulatory rate-setting for interchange fees charged to
    merchants for debit card transactions, enhances the regulation
    of consumer mortgage banking, limits the pre-emption of local
    laws applicable to national banks, and excludes certain
    instruments currently included in determining the Tier 1
    regulatory capital ratio. The capital instrument exclusion will
    be phased-in over a three-year period beginning in 2013. As of
    December 31, 2010, the instruments subject to that
    exclusion increase the Company s Tier 1 capital ratio
    by 1.3 percent. Many of the legislation s provisions
    have extended implementation periods and delayed effective dates
    and will require rulemaking by various regulatory agencies.
    Accordingly, the Company cannot currently quantify the ultimate
    impact of this legislation and the related future rulemaking,
    but expects that the legislation will have a detrimental impact
    on revenues and expenses, require the Company to change certain
    of its business practices, increase the Company s capital
    requirements and impose additional assessments and costs on the
    Company, and otherwise adversely affect the Company s
    business.

Other changes
    in the laws, regulations and policies governing financial
    services companies could alter the Company s business
    environment and adversely affect operations
        The Board of
    Governors of the Federal Reserve System regulates the supply of
    money and credit in the United States. Its fiscal and monetary
    policies determine in a large part the Company s cost of
    funds for lending and investing and the return that can be
    earned on those loans and investments, both of which affect the
    Company s net interest margin. Federal Reserve Board
    policies can also materially affect the value of financial
    instruments that the Company holds, such as debt securities and
    mortgage servicing rights ( MSRs ). Its policies also
    can affect the Company s borrowers, potentially increasing
    the risk that they may fail to repay their loans. Changes in
    policies of the Federal Reserve Board are beyond the
    Company s control and can be difficult to predict.

The Company and its bank subsidiaries are heavily regulated at
    the federal and state levels. This regulation is to protect
    depositors, federal deposit insurance funds and the banking
    system as a whole. Congress and state legislatures and federal
    and state agencies continually review banking laws, regulations
    and policies for possible changes. Changes in statutes,
    regulations or policies could affect the Company in substantial
    and unpredictable ways, including limiting the types of
    financial services and products that the Company offers
     and/or 
    increasing the ability of non-banks to offer competing financial
    services and products. The Company cannot predict whether any of
    this potential legislation will be enacted, and if enacted, the
    effect that it or any regulations would have on the
    Company s financial condition or results of operations.

The Company
    could experience an unexpected inability to obtain needed
    liquidity     The
    Company s liquidity could be constrained by an unexpected
    inability to access the capital markets due to a variety of
    market dislocations or interruptions. If the Company is unable
    to meet its funding needs on a timely basis, its business would
    be adversely affected. The Company s credit rating is
    important to its liquidity. A reduction in the Company s
    credit rating could adversely affect its liquidity and
    competitive position, increase its funding costs or limit its
    access to the capital markets.

Loss of
    customer deposits could increase the Company s funding
    costs     The Company
    relies on bank deposits to be a low cost and stable source of
    funding. The Company competes with banks and other financial
    services companies for deposits. If the Company s
    competitors raise the rates they pay on deposits, the
    Company s funding costs may increase, either because the
    Company raises its rates to avoid losing deposits or because the
    Company loses deposits and must rely on more expensive sources
    of funding. Higher funding costs could reduce the Company s
    net interest margin and net interest income.

132     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

The soundness
    of other financial institutions could adversely affect the
    Company     The
    Company s ability to engage in routine funding transactions
    could be adversely affected by the actions and commercial
    soundness of other financial institutions. Financial services
    institutions are interrelated as a result of trading, clearing,
    counterparty or other relationships. The Company has exposure to
    many different counterparties, and the Company routinely
    executes transactions with counterparties in the financial
    industry, including brokers and dealers, commercial banks,
    investment banks, mutual and hedge funds, and other
    institutional clients. As a result, defaults by, or even rumors
    or questions about, one or more financial services institutions,
    or the financial services industry generally, could lead to
    losses or defaults by the Company or by other institutions. Many
    of these transactions expose the Company to credit risk in the
    event of default of the Company s counterparty or client.
    In addition, the Company s credit risk may be exacerbated
    when the collateral held by the Company cannot be realized upon
    or is liquidated at prices not sufficient to recover the full
    amount of the financial instrument exposure due the Company.
    There is no assurance that any such losses would not materially
    and adversely affect the Company s results of operations.

The financial
    services industry is highly competitive, and competitive
    pressures could intensify and adversely affect the
    Company s financial results
        The Company operates
    in a highly competitive industry that could become even more
    competitive as a result of legislative, regulatory and
    technological changes, as well as continued industry
    consolidation which may increase in connection with current
    economic and market conditions. The Company competes with other
    commercial banks, savings and loan associations, mutual savings
    banks, finance companies, mortgage banking companies, credit
    unions and investment companies. In addition, technology has
    lowered barriers to entry and made it possible for non-banks to
    offer products and services traditionally provided by banks.
    Many of the Company s competitors have fewer regulatory
    constraints, and some have lower cost structures. Also, the
    potential need to adapt to industry changes in information
    technology systems, on which the Company and financial services
    industry are highly dependent, could present operational issues
    and require capital spending.

The Company
    continually encounters technological change
        The financial
    services industry is continually undergoing rapid technological
    change with frequent introductions of new technology-driven
    products and services. The effective use of technology increases
    efficiency and enables financial institutions to better serve
    customers and to reduce costs. The Company s future success
    depends, in part, upon its ability to address customer needs by
    using technology to provide products and services that will
    satisfy customer demands, as well as to create additional
    efficiencies in the Company s operations. The Company may
    not be able to effectively implement new technology-driven
    products and services or be successful in marketing these
    products and services to its customers. Failure to successfully
    keep pace with technological change affecting the financial
    services industry could negatively affect the Company s
    revenue and profit.

Improvements
    in economic indicators disproportionately affecting the
    financial services industry may lag improvements in the general
    economy     Should the
    stabilization of the U.S. economy lead to a general
    economic recovery, the improvement of certain economic
    indicators, such as unemployment and real estate asset values
    and rents, may nevertheless continue to lag behind the overall
    economy. These economic indicators typically affect certain
    industries, such as real estate and financial services, more
    significantly. Furthermore, financial services companies with a
    substantial lending business, like the Company s, are
    dependent upon the ability of their borrowers to make debt
    service payments on loans. Should unemployment or real estate
    asset values fail to recover for an extended period of time, the
    Company could be adversely affected.

Changes in
    consumer use of banks and changes in consumer spending and
    saving habits could adversely affect the Company s
    financial results
        Technology and other
    changes now allow many consumers to complete financial
    transactions without using banks. For example, consumers can pay
    bills and transfer funds directly without going through a bank.
    This  disintermediation  could result in the loss of
    fee income, as well as the loss of customer deposits and income
    generated from those deposits. In addition, changes in consumer
    spending and saving habits could adversely affect the
    Company s operations, and the Company may be unable to
    timely develop competitive new products and services in response
    to these changes that are accepted by new and existing customers.

Changes in the
    domestic interest rate environment could reduce the
    Company s net interest income
        The operations of
    financial institutions such as the Company are dependent to a
    large degree on net interest income, which is the difference
    between interest income from loans and investments and interest
    expense on deposits and borrowings. An institution s

U.S. BANCORP   133 

Table of Contents   

net interest income is significantly affected by market rates of
    interest, which in turn are affected by prevailing economic
    conditions, by the fiscal and monetary policies of the federal
    government and by the policies of various regulatory agencies.
    Like all financial institutions, the Company s balance
    sheet is affected by fluctuations in interest rates. Volatility
    in interest rates can also result in the flow of funds away from
    financial institutions into direct investments. Direct
    investments, such as U.S. Government and corporate
    securities and other investment vehicles (including mutual
    funds) generally pay higher rates of return than financial
    institutions, because of the absence of federal insurance
    premiums and reserve requirements.

Acts or
    threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by
    the United States or other governments could adversely affect
    general economic or industry conditions
        Geopolitical
    conditions may also affect the Company s earnings. Acts or
    threats of terrorism and political or military actions taken by
    the United States or other governments in response to terrorism,
    or similar activity, could adversely affect general economic or
    industry conditions.

Company Risk
    Factors   

The
    Company s allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to
    cover actual losses
        Like all financial
    institutions, the Company maintains an allowance for loan losses
    to provide for loan defaults and non-performance. The
    Company s allowance for loan losses is based on its
    historical loss experience as well as an evaluation of the risks
    associated with its loan portfolio, including the size and
    composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions
    and geographic concentrations within the portfolio. The stress
    on the United States economy and the local economies in which
    the Company does business may be greater or last longer than
    expected, resulting in, among other things, greater than
    expected deterioration in credit quality of the loan portfolio,
    or in the value of collateral securing those loans. In addition,
    the process the Company uses to estimate losses inherent in its
    credit exposure requires difficult, subjective, and complex
    judgments, including forecasts of economic conditions and how
    these economic predictions might impair the ability of its
    borrowers to repay their loans, which may no longer be capable
    of accurate estimation which may, in turn, impact the
    reliability of the process. Increases in the Company s
    allowance for loan losses may not be adequate to cover actual
    loan losses, and future provisions for loan losses could
    continue to materially and adversely affect its financial
    results.

The Company
    may continue to suffer increased losses in its loan portfolio
    despite its underwriting practices
        The Company seeks to
    mitigate the risks inherent in its loan portfolio by adhering to
    specific underwriting practices. These practices generally
    include: analysis of a borrower s credit history, financial
    statements, tax returns and cash flow projections; valuation of
    collateral based on reports of independent appraisers; and
    verification of liquid assets. Although the Company believes
    that its underwriting criteria are, and historically have been,
    appropriate for the various kinds of loans it makes, the Company
    has already incurred high levels of losses on loans that have
    met these criteria, and may continue to experience higher than
    expected losses depending on economic factors and consumer
    behavior. In addition, the Company s ability to assess the
    creditworthiness of its customers may be impaired if the models
    and approaches it uses to select, manage, and underwrite its
    customers become less predictive of future behaviors. Finally,
    the Company may have higher credit risk, or experience higher
    credit losses, to the extent its loans are concentrated by loan
    type, industry segment, borrower type, or location of the
    borrower or collateral. For example, the Company s credit
    risk and credit losses can increase if borrowers who engage in
    similar activities are uniquely or disproportionately affected
    by economic or market conditions, or by regulation, such as
    regulation related to climate change. Continued deterioration of
    real estate values in states or regions where the Company has
    relatively larger concentrations of residential or commercial
    real estate could result in significantly higher credit costs.

The Company
    faces increased risk arising out of its mortgage lending and
    servicing
    businesses    
      Numerous federal and state
    governmental, legislative and regulatory authorities are
    investigating practices in the mortgage lending and servicing
    industries. In addition to the interagency examination by
    U.S. federal banking regulators, the Company has received
    inquiries from other governmental, legislative and regulatory
    authorities on this topic, has cooperated, and continues to
    cooperate, with these inquiries. These inquiries may lead to
    other administrative, civil or criminal proceedings, possibly
    resulting in remedies including fines, penalties, restitution,
    or alterations in the Company s business practices.
    Additionally, reputational damage arising out of the enforcement
    action or from other inquiries and industry-wide publicity could
    also have an adverse effect upon the Company s existing
    mortgage business and could reduce future business opportunities.

134     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

In addition to governmental or regulatory investigations, the
    Company, like other companies with residential mortgage
    origination and servicing operations, faces the risk of class
    actions and other litigation arising out of these operations. At
    this time, the Company cannot predict the cost to or effect upon
    the Company from governmental, legislative or regulatory actions
    or private litigation or claims arising out of residential
    mortgage lending and servicing practices, although such actions,
    litigation and claims could, individually or in the aggregate,
    result in significant expense.

Changes in
    interest rates can reduce the value of the Company s
    mortgage servicing rights and mortgages held-for-sale, and can
    make its mortgage banking revenue volatile from quarter to
    quarter, which can negatively affect its earnings
        The Company has a
    portfolio of MSRs, which is the right to service a mortgage loan
    for a fee. The Company initially carries its MSRs using a fair
    value measurement of the present value of the estimated future
    net servicing income, which includes assumptions about the
    likelihood of prepayment by borrowers. Changes in interest rates
    can affect prepayment assumptions and thus fair value. As
    interest rates fall, prepayments tend to increase as borrowers
    refinance, and the fair value of MSR s can decrease, which
    in turn reduces the Company s earnings.

An increase in interest rates tends to lead to a decrease in
    demand for mortgage loans, reducing the Company s income
    from loan originations. Although revenue from the Company s
    MSRs may increase at the same time through increases in fair
    value, this offsetting revenue effect, or  natural
    hedge,  is not perfectly correlated in amount or timing.
    The Company typically uses derivatives and other instruments to
    hedge its mortgage banking interest rate risk, but this hedging
    activity may not always be successful. The Company could incur
    significant losses from its hedging activities, and there may be
    periods where it elects not to hedge its mortgage banking
    interest rate risk. As a result of these factors, mortgage
    banking revenue can experience significant volatility.

Maintaining or
    increasing the Company s market share may depend on
    lowering prices and market acceptance of new products and
    services     The
    Company s success depends, in part, on its ability to adapt
    its products and services to evolving industry standards. There
    is increasing pressure to provide products and services at lower
    prices. Lower prices can reduce the Company s net interest
    margin and revenues from its fee-based products and services. In
    addition, the widespread adoption of new technologies, including
    internet services, could require the Company to make substantial
    expenditures to modify or adapt the Company s existing
    products and services. Also, these and other capital investments
    in the Company s businesses may not produce expected growth
    in earnings anticipated at the time of the expenditure. The
    Company might not be successful in introducing new products and
    services, achieving market acceptance of its products and
    services, or developing and maintaining loyal customers.

The Company
    relies on its employees, systems and certain counterparties, and
    certain failures could materially adversely affect its
    operations     The
    Company operates in many different businesses in diverse markets
    and relies on the ability of its employees and systems to
    process a high number of transactions. Operational risk is the
    risk of loss resulting from the Company s operations,
    including, but not limited to, the risk of fraud by employees or
    persons outside of the Company, the execution of unauthorized
    transactions by employees, errors relating to transaction
    processing and technology, breaches of the internal control
    system and compliance requirements and business continuation and
    disaster recovery. This risk of loss also includes the potential
    legal actions that could arise as a result of an operational
    deficiency or as a result of noncompliance with applicable
    regulatory standards, adverse business decisions or their
    implementation, and customer attrition due to potential negative
    publicity. Third-parties with which the Company does business
    could also be sources of operational risk to the Company,
    including risks relating to breakdowns or failures of those
    parties  systems or employees. In the event of a breakdown
    in the internal control system, improper operation of systems or
    improper employee actions, the Company could suffer financial
    loss, face regulatory action and suffer damage to its reputation.

If personal, confidential or proprietary information of
    customers or clients in the Company s possession were to be
    mishandled or misused, the Company could suffer significant
    regulatory consequences, reputational damage and financial loss.
    This mishandling or misuse could include, for example, if the
    information were erroneously provided to parties who are not
    permitted to have the information, either by fault of the
    Company s systems, employees, or counterparties, or where
    the information is intercepted or otherwise inappropriately
    taken by third-parties.

The change in
    residual value of leased assets may have an adverse impact on
    the Company s financial results
        The Company engages
    in leasing activities and is subject to the risk that the
    residual value of the property under lease will

U.S. BANCORP   135 

Table of Contents   

be less than the Company s recorded asset value. Adverse
    changes in the residual value of leased assets can have a
    negative impact on the Company s financial results. The
    risk of changes in the realized value of the leased assets
    compared to recorded residual values depends on many factors
    outside of the Company s control, including supply and
    demand for the assets, condition of the assets at the end of the
    lease term, and other economic factors.

Negative
    publicity could damage the Company s reputation and
    adversely impact its business and financial results
        Reputation risk, or
    the risk to the Company s earnings and capital from
    negative publicity, is inherent in the Company s business.
    Negative publicity can result from the Company s actual or
    alleged conduct in any number of activities, including lending
    practices, corporate governance and acquisitions, and actions
    taken by government regulators and community organizations in
    response to those activities. Negative publicity can adversely
    affect the Company s ability to keep and attract customers,
    and can expose the Company to litigation and regulatory action.
    Because most of the Company s businesses operate under the
     U.S. Bank  brand, actual or alleged conduct by
    one business can result in negative publicity about other
    businesses the Company operates. Although the Company takes
    steps to minimize reputation risk in dealing with customers and
    other constituencies, the Company, as a large diversified
    financial services company with a high industry profile, is
    inherently exposed to this risk.

The
    Company s reported financial results depend on
    management s selection of accounting methods and certain
    assumptions and estimates
        The Company s
    accounting policies and methods are fundamental to how the
    Company records and reports its financial condition and results
    of operations. The Company s management must exercise
    judgment in selecting and applying many of these accounting
    policies and methods so they comply with generally accepted
    accounting principles and reflect management s judgment
    regarding the most appropriate manner to report the
    Company s financial condition and results. In some cases,
    management must select the accounting policy or method to apply
    from two or more alternatives, any of which might be reasonable
    under the circumstances, yet might result in the Company s
    reporting materially different results than would have been
    reported under a different alternative.

Certain accounting policies are critical to presenting the
    Company s financial condition and results. They require
    management to make difficult, subjective or complex judgments
    about matters that are uncertain. Materially different amounts
    could be reported under different conditions or using different
    assumptions or estimates. These critical accounting policies
    include: the allowance for credit losses; estimations of fair
    value; the valuation of purchased loans and related
    indemnification assets; the valuation of MSRs; the valuation of
    goodwill and other intangible assets; and income taxes. Because
    of the uncertainty of estimates involved in these matters, the
    Company may be required to do one or more of the following:
    significantly increase the allowance for credit losses
     and/or 
    sustain credit losses that are significantly higher than the
    reserve provided; recognize significant impairment on its
    goodwill and other intangible asset balances; or significantly
    increase its accrued taxes liability. For more information,
    refer to  Critical Accounting Policies  in this Annual
    Report.

Changes in
    accounting standards could materially impact the Company s
    financial statements
        From time to time,
    the Financial Accounting Standards Board changes the financial
    accounting and reporting standards that govern the preparation
    of the Company s financial statements. These changes can be
    hard to predict and can materially impact how the Company
    records and reports its financial condition and results of
    operations. In some cases, the Company could be required to
    apply a new or revised standard retroactively, resulting in the
    Company s restating prior period financial statements.

Acquisitions
    may not produce revenue enhancements or cost savings at levels
    or within timeframes originally anticipated and may result in
    unforeseen integration difficulties
        The Company
    regularly explores opportunities to acquire financial services
    businesses or assets and may also consider opportunities to
    acquire other banks or financial institutions. The Company
    cannot predict the number, size or timing of acquisitions.

Difficulty in integrating an acquired business or company may
    cause the Company not to realize expected revenue increases,
    cost savings, increases in geographic or product presence,
     and/or  other
    projected benefits from the acquisition. The integration could
    result in higher than expected deposit attrition (run-off), loss
    of key employees, disruption of the Company s business or
    the business of the acquired company, or otherwise adversely
    affect the Company s ability to maintain relationships with
    customers and employees or achieve the anticipated benefits of
    the acquisition. Also, the negative effect of any divestitures
    required by regulatory authorities in acquisitions or business
    combinations may be greater than expected.

136     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

The Company must generally receive federal regulatory approval
    before it can acquire a bank or bank holding company. In
    determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition,
    federal bank regulators will consider, among other factors, the
    effect of the acquisition on the competition, financial
    condition, and future prospects. The regulators also review
    current and projected capital ratios and levels, the competence,
    experience, and integrity of management and its record of
    compliance with laws and regulations, the convenience and needs
    of the communities to be served (including the acquiring
    institution s record of compliance under the Community
    Reinvestment Act) and the effectiveness of the acquiring
    institution in combating money laundering activities. In
    addition, the Company cannot be certain when or if, or on what
    terms and conditions, any required regulatory approvals will be
    granted. The Company may be required to sell banks or branches
    as a condition to receiving regulatory approval.

If new laws
    were enacted that restrict the ability of the Company and its
    subsidiaries to share information about customers, the
    Company s financial results could be negatively affected
        The Company s
    business model depends on sharing information among the family
    of companies owned by U.S. Bancorp to better satisfy the
    Company s customer needs. Laws that restrict the ability of
    the companies owned by U.S. Bancorp to share information
    about customers could negatively affect the Company s
    revenue and profit.

The
    Company s business could suffer if the Company fails to
    attract and retain skilled people
        The Company s
    success depends, in large part, on its ability to attract and
    retain key people. Competition for the best people in most
    activities the Company engages in can be intense. The Company
    may not be able to hire the best people or to keep them. Recent
    strong scrutiny of compensation practices has resulted and may
    continue to result in additional regulation and legislation in
    this area as well as additional legislative and regulatory
    initiatives, and there is no assurance that this will not cause
    increased turnover or impede the Company s ability to
    retain and attract the highest caliber employees.

The Company
    relies on other companies to provide key components of the
    Company s business infrastructure
        Third-party vendors
    provide key components of the Company s business
    infrastructure, such as internet connections, network access and
    mutual fund distribution. While the Company has selected these
    third-party vendors carefully, it does not control their
    actions. Any problems caused by these third-parties, including
    as a result of their not providing the Company their services
    for any reason or their performing their services poorly, could
    adversely affect the Company s ability to deliver products
    and services to the Company s customers and otherwise to
    conduct its business. Replacing these third-party vendors could
    also entail significant delay and expense.

Significant
    legal actions could subject the Company to substantial uninsured
    liabilities     The
    Company is from time to time subject to claims related to its
    operations. These claims and legal actions, including
    supervisory actions by the Company s regulators, could
    involve large monetary claims and significant defense costs. To
    protect itself from the cost of these claims, the Company
    maintains insurance coverage in amounts and with deductibles
    that it believes are appropriate for its operations. However,
    the Company s insurance coverage may not cover all claims
    against the Company or continue to be available to the Company
    at a reasonable cost. As a result, the Company may be exposed to
    substantial uninsured liabilities, which could adversely affect
    the Company s results of operations and financial condition.

The Company is
    exposed to risk of environmental liability when it takes title
    to properties     In the
    course of the Company s business, the Company may foreclose
    on and take title to real estate. As a result, the Company could
    be subject to environmental liabilities with respect to these
    properties. The Company may be held liable to a governmental
    entity or to third-parties for property damage, personal injury,
    investigation and
     clean-up 
    costs incurred by these parties in connection with environmental
    contamination or may be required to investigate or clean up
    hazardous or toxic substances or chemical releases at a
    property. The costs associated with investigation or remediation
    activities could be substantial. In addition, if the Company is
    the owner or former owner of a contaminated site, it may be
    subject to common law claims by third-parties based on damages
    and costs resulting from environmental contamination emanating
    from the property. If the Company becomes subject to significant
    environmental liabilities, its financial condition and results
    of operations could be adversely affected.

A natural
    disaster could harm the Company s business
        Natural disasters
    could harm the Company s operations through interference
    with communications, including the interruption or loss of the
    Company s websites, which could prevent the Company from
    obtaining deposits, originating loans and processing and
    controlling its flow of business, as well as through the
    destruction of facilities and the

U.S. BANCORP   137 

Table of Contents   

Company s operational, financial and management information
    systems. Additionally, natural disasters may significantly
    affect loan portfolios by damaging properties pledged as
    collateral and by impairing the ability of certain borrowers to
    repay their loans. The nature and level of natural disasters
    cannot be predicted and may be exacerbated by global climate
    change. The ultimate impact of a natural disaster on future
    financial results is difficult to predict and would be affected
    by a number of factors, including the extent of damage to the
    Company s assets or the relevant collateral, the extent to
    which damaged collateral is not covered by insurance, the extent
    to which unemployment and other economic conditions caused by
    the natural disaster adversely affect the ability of borrowers
    to repay their loans, and the cost of collection and foreclosure
    moratoriums, loan forbearances and other accommodations granted
    to borrowers and other customers.

The Company
    faces systems failure risks as well as security risks, including
     hacking  and  identity theft 
        The computer systems
    and network infrastructure the Company and others use could be
    vulnerable to unforeseen problems. These problems may arise in
    both the Company s internally developed systems and the
    systems of its third-party service providers. The Company s
    operations are dependent upon its ability to protect computer
    equipment against damage from fire, power loss or
    telecommunication failure. Any damage or failure that causes an
    interruption in its operations could adversely affect its
    business and financial results. In addition, the Company s
    computer systems and network infrastructure present security
    risks, and could be susceptible to hacking or identity theft.

The Company
    relies on dividends from its subsidiaries for its liquidity
    needs     The Company is
    a separate and distinct legal entity from its bank subsidiaries
    and non-bank subsidiaries. The Company receives substantially
    all of its cash from dividends paid by its subsidiaries. These
    dividends are the principal source of funds to pay dividends on
    the Company s stock and interest and principal on its debt.
    Various federal and state laws and regulations limit the amount
    of dividends that its bank subsidiaries and certain of its
    non-bank subsidiaries may pay to the Company without regulatory
    approval. Also, the Company s right to participate in a
    distribution of assets upon a subsidiary s liquidation or
    reorganization is subject to prior claims of the
    subsidiary s creditors, except to the extent that any of
    the Company s claims as a creditor of that subsidiary may
    be recognized.

The Company
    has non-banking businesses that are subject to various risks and
    uncertainties     The
    Company is a diversified financial services company, and the
    Company s business model is based on a mix of businesses
    that provide a broad range of products and services delivered
    through multiple distribution channels. In addition to banking,
    the Company provides payment services, investments, mortgages
    and corporate and personal trust services. Although the Company
    believes its diversity helps lessen the effect of downturns in
    any one segment of its industry, it also means the
    Company s earnings could be subject to various specific
    risks and uncertainties related to these non-banking businesses.

The
    Company s stock price can be volatile
        The Company s
    stock price can fluctuate widely in response to a variety of
    factors, including: actual or anticipated variations in the
    Company s quarterly operating results; recommendations by
    securities analysts; significant acquisitions or business
    combinations; strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital
    commitments by or involving the Company or the Company s
    competitors; operating and stock price performance of other
    companies that investors deem comparable to the Company; new
    technology used or services offered by the Company s
    competitors; news reports relating to trends, concerns and other
    issues in the financial services industry; and changes in
    government regulations. General market fluctuations, industry
    factors and general economic and political conditions and
    events, as well as interest rate changes, currency fluctuations,
    or unforeseen events such as terrorist attacks could cause the
    Company s stock price to decrease regardless of the
    Company s operating results.

138     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Executive
    Officers

Richard
    K. Davis  

Mr. Davis is Chairman, President and Chief Executive
    Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Davis, 53, has served as
    Chairman of U.S. Bancorp since December 2007, Chief
    Executive Officer since December 2006 and President since
    October 2004. He also served as Chief Operating Officer from
    October 2004 until December 2006. From the time of the merger of
    Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001 until
    October 2004, Mr. Davis served as Vice Chairman of
    U.S. Bancorp. From the time of the merger, Mr. Davis
    was responsible for Consumer Banking, including Retail Payment
    Solutions (card services), and he assumed additional
    responsibility for Commercial Banking in 2003. Mr. Davis
    has held management positions with the Company since joining
    Star Banc Corporation, one of its predecessors, in 1993 as
    Executive Vice President.

Jennie
    P. Carlson  

Ms. Carlson is Executive Vice President, Human Resources,
    of U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Carlson, 50, has served in this
    position since January 2002. Until that time, she served as
    Executive Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Corporate
    Secretary of U.S. Bancorp since the merger of Firstar
    Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February 2001. From 1995
    until the merger, she was General Counsel and Secretary of
    Firstar Corporation and Star Banc Corporation.

Andrew
    Cecere  

Mr. Cecere is Vice Chairman and Chief Financial Officer of
    U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Cecere, 50, has served in this
    position since February 2007. Until that time, he served as Vice
    Chairman, Wealth Management and Securities Services, since the
    merger of Firstar Corporation and U.S. Bancorp in February
    2001. Previously, he had served as an executive officer of the
    former U.S. Bancorp, including as Chief Financial Officer
    from May 2000 through February 2001.

Terrance
    R. Dolan  

Mr. Dolan is Vice Chairman, Wealth Management and
    Securities Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Dolan, 49,
    has served in this position since July 2010. From September 1998
    to July 2010, Mr. Dolan served as U.S. Bancorp s
    Controller. He additionally held the title of Executive Vice
    President from January 2002 until June 2010 and Senior Vice
    President from September 1998 until January 2002.

Richard
    C. Hartnack  

Mr. Hartnack is Vice Chairman, Consumer and Small Business
    Banking, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hartnack, 65, has served
    in this position since April 2005, when he joined
    U.S. Bancorp. Prior to joining U.S. Bancorp, he served
    as Vice Chairman of Union Bank of California from 1991 to 2005
    with responsibility for Community Banking and Investment
    Services.

Richard
    J. Hidy  

Mr. Hidy is Executive Vice President and Chief Risk Officer
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hidy, 48, has served in this
    position since 2005. From 2003 until 2005, he served as Senior
    Vice President and Deputy General Counsel of U.S. Bancorp,
    having served as Senior Vice President and Associate General
    Counsel of U.S. Bancorp and Firstar Corporation since 1999.

Joseph
    C. Hoesley  

Mr. Hoesley is Vice Chairman, Commercial Real Estate, of
    U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Hoesley, 56, has served in this
    position since June 2006. From June 2002 until June 2006, he
    served as Executive Vice President and National Group Head of
    Commercial Real Estate at U.S. Bancorp, having previously
    served as Senior Vice President and Group Head of Commercial
    Real Estate since joining U.S. Bancorp in 1992.

U.S. BANCORP   139 

Table of Contents   

Pamela
    A. Joseph  

Ms. Joseph is Vice Chairman, Payment Services, of
    U.S. Bancorp. Ms. Joseph, 52, has served in this
    position since December 2004. Since November 2004, she has been
    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Elavon Inc., a wholly
    owned subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp. Prior to that time, she
    had been President and Chief Operating Officer of Elavon Inc.
    since February 2000.

Howell
    D. McCullough III  

Mr. McCullough is Executive Vice President and Chief
    Strategy Officer of U.S. Bancorp and Head of
    U.S. Bancorp s Enterprise Revenue Office.
    Mr. McCullough, 54, has served in these positions since
    September 2007. From July 2005 until September 2007, he served
    as Director of Strategy and Acquisitions of the Payment Services
    business of U.S. Bancorp. He also served as Chief Financial
    Officer of the Payment Services business from October 2006 until
    September 2007. From March 2001 until July 2005, he served as
    Senior Vice President and Director of Investor Relations at
    U.S. Bancorp.

Lee
    R. Mitau  

Mr. Mitau is Executive Vice President and General Counsel
    of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Mitau, 62, has served in this
    position since 1995. Mr. Mitau also serves as Corporate
    Secretary. Prior to 1995 he was a partner at the law firm of
    Dorsey   Whitney LLP.

P.W.
    Parker  

Mr. Parker is Executive Vice President and Chief Credit
    Officer of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Parker, 54, has served in
    this position since October 2007. From March 2005 until October
    2007, he served as Executive Vice President of Credit Portfolio
    Management of U.S. Bancorp, having served as Senior Vice
    President of Credit Portfolio Management of U.S. Bancorp
    since January 2002.

Richard
    B. Payne, Jr.  

Mr. Payne is Vice Chairman, Wholesale Banking, of
    U.S. Bancorp. Mr. Payne, 63, has served in this
    position since November 2010, when he assumed the additional
    responsibility for Commercial Banking at U.S. Bancorp. From
    July 2006, when he joined U.S. Bancorp, until November
    2010, Mr. Payne served as Vice Chairman, Corporate Banking
    at U.S. Bancorp. Prior to joining U.S. Bancorp, he
    served as Executive Vice President for National City Corporation
    in Cleveland, with responsibility for Capital Markets, from 2001
    to 2006.

Jeffry
    H. von Gillern  

Mr. von Gillern is Vice Chairman, Technology and Operations
    Services, of U.S. Bancorp. Mr. von Gillern, 45, has served
    in this position since July 2010. From April 2001, when he
    joined U.S. Bancorp, until July 2010, Mr. von Gillern
    served as Executive Vice President of U.S. Bancorp,
    additionally serving as Chief Information Officer from July 2007
    until July 2010.

140     U.S. BANCORP

Table of Contents   

Directors

Richard
    K.
    Davis 1,6   

Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer  

U.S. Bancorp

Minneapolis, Minnesota

Douglas
    M.
    Baker, Jr. 3,6   

Chairman, President and Chief
    Executive Officer  

Ecolab Inc.

(Cleaning and sanitizing products)

St. Paul, Minnesota

Y.
    Marc
    Belton 3,4   

Executive Vice President, Global
    Strategy,  

Growth and Marketing
    Innovation  

General Mills, Inc.

(Consumer food products)

Minneapolis, Minnesota

Victoria
    Buyniski
    Gluckman 2,4   

Retired Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer  

United Medical Resources, Inc.,

a wholly owned subsidiary of

UnitedHealth Group Incorporated

(Healthcare benefits administration)

Cincinnati, Ohio

Arthur
    D.
    Collins, Jr. 1,2,5   

Retired Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer  

Medtronic, Inc.

(Medical device and technology)

Chicago, Illinois

Joel
    W.
    Johnson 3,6   

Retired Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer  

Hormel Foods Corporation

(Consumer food products)

Scottsdale, Arizona

Olivia
    F.
    Kirtley 1,3,5   

Business Consultant  

(Consulting)

Louisville, Kentucky

Jerry
    W.
    Levin 1,2,5   

Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer  

Wilton Brands Inc.

(Consumer products) and

Chairman and Chief Executive
    Officer  

JW Levin Partners LLC

(Private investment and advisory)

New York, New York

David
    B.
    O Maley 5,6   

Executive Chairman and Retired
    President  
    and Chief Executive Officer  

Ohio National Financial Services,
    Inc.

(Insurance)

Cincinnati, Ohio

O dell
    M. Owens, M.D.,
    M.P.H. 1,3,4   

President  

Cincinnati State Technical and
    Community College

(Higher Education)

Cincinnati, Ohio

Richard
    G.
    Reiten 2,3   

Retired Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer  

Northwest Natural Gas Company

(Natural gas utility)

Portland, Oregon

Craig
    D.
    Schnuck 4,6   

Former Chairman and Chief
    Executive Officer  

Schnuck Markets, Inc.

(Food retail)

St. Louis, Missouri

Patrick
    T.
    Stokes 1,2,6   

Former Chairman and Former Chief
    Executive Officer  

Anheuser-Busch Companies, Inc.

(Consumer products)

St. Louis, Missouri

1.    
     
      Executive
    Committee  

2.   
 
           Compensation and
    Human Resources Committee  

3.   
 
           Audit
    Committee  

4.   
 
           Community
    Reinvestment and Public Policy Committee  

5.   
 
           Governance
    Committee  

6.   
 
           Risk Management
    Committee  

U.S. BANCORP   141 

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 6
 x59846exv21.htm
 EX-21

exv21 

EXHIBIT 21 

SUBSIDIARIES OF U.S. BANCORP 
(JURISDICTIONS OF ORGANIZATION SHOWN IN PARENTHESES) 

U.S. Bank National Association (a nationally chartered banking association)

U.S. Bank National Association ND (a nationally chartered banking association)

U.S. Bank Trust Company, National Association (a nationally chartered banking association)

U.S. Bank Trust National Association (a nationally chartered banking association)

U.S. Bank Trust National Association SD (a nationally chartered banking association)

Elan Life Insurance Company (Arizona)

Elavon, Inc. (Georgia)

Elavon Financial Services Limited (Ireland)

Firstar Trade Services Corporation (Wisconsin)

Miami Valley Insurance Company (Arizona)

Midwest Indemnity Inc. (Vermont)

Mississippi Valley Life Insurance Company (Arizona)

Quasar Distributors, LLC (Wisconsin)

U.S. Bancorp Asset Management, Inc. (Delaware)

U.S. Bancorp Equipment Finance, Inc. (Oregon)

U.S. Bancorp Insurance and Investments, Inc. (Wyoming)

U.S. Bancorp Insurance Company, Inc. (Vermont)

U.S. Bancorp Insurance Services of Montana, Inc. (Montana)

U.S. Bancorp Insurance Services, LLC (Wisconsin)

U.S. Bancorp Investments, Inc. (Delaware)

USB Americas Holdings Company (Delaware)

USB European Holdings Company (Delaware)

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 x59846exv23.htm
 EX-23

exv23 

Exhibit
23 

Consent
    of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

We consent to the incorporation by reference in this Annual
    Report
     (Form 10-K) 
    of U.S. Bancorp of our reports dated February 28,
    2011, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of
    U.S. Bancorp and the effectiveness of internal control over
    financial reporting of U.S. Bancorp, included in the 2010
    Annual Report to Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp.

We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following
    Registration Statements:

of our reports dated February 28, 2011, with respect to the
    consolidated financial statements of U.S. Bancorp and the
    effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of
    U.S. Bancorp, included in the 2010 Annual Report to
    Shareholders of U.S. Bancorp, which is incorporated by
    reference in this Annual Report
     (Form 10-K) 
    of U.S. Bancorp for the year ended December 31, 2010.

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 28, 2011

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 8
 x59846exv24.htm
 EX-24

exv24 

Exhibit 24 

U.S. BANCORP 

Power of Attorney of Director

Each of the undersigned directors of U.S. Bancorp, a Delaware corporation, hereby constitutes
and appoints each of RICHARD K. DAVIS, ANDREW CECERE and LEE R. MITAU, acting individually or
jointly, their true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power to act for them and in
their name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to do any and all acts and execute any and
all documents which either such attorney and agent may deem necessary or desirable to enable U.S.
Bancorp to comply with the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and any rules, regulations
and requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission in respect thereof, in connection with
the filing with the Commission of U.S. Bancorp s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 2010, including, without limitation, power and authority to sign the names of
the undersigned directors to the Annual Report on Form 10-K and to any instruments and documents
filed as part of or in connection with the Form 10-K or any amendments thereto; and the undersigned
hereby ratify and confirm all actions taken and documents signed by each said attorney and agent as
provided herein.

The undersigned have set their hands this 18th day of January, 2011.

/s/ Douglas M. Baker, Jr.

Douglas M. Baker, Jr.

/s/ Jerry W. Levin

Jerry W. Levin

/s/ Y. Marc Belton

Y. Marc Belton

/s/ David B. O Maley

David B. O Maley

/s/ Victoria Buyniski Gluckman

Victoria Buyniski Gluckman

/s/ O dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H.

O dell M. Owens, M.D., M.P.H.

/s/ Arthur D. Collins, Jr.

Arthur D. Collins, Jr.

/s/ Richard G. Reiten

Richard G. Reiten

/s/ Joel W. Johnson

Joel W. Johnson

/s/ Craig D. Schnuck

Craig D. Schnuck

/s/ Olivia F. Kirtley

Olivia F. Kirtley

/s/ Patrick T. Stokes

Patrick T. Stokes

</EX-24>

<EX-31.1>
 9
 x59846exv31w1.htm
 EX-31.1

exv31w1 

EXHIBIT 31.1 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
RULE 13a-14(a) UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

I, Richard K. Davis, certify that:

(1) 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of U.S. Bancorp; 

(2) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

(3) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

(4) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

(b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

(5) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

(b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/   Richard K. Davis 

Richard K. Davis  

Dated: February 28, 2011  
      Chief Executive Officer   

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 10
 x59846exv31w2.htm
 EX-31.2

exv31w2 

EXHIBIT 31.2 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
RULE 13a-14(a) UNDER THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

I, Andrew Cecere, certify that:

(1) 
       
     I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of U.S. Bancorp; 

(2) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact
or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the
circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period
covered by this report; 

(3) 
       
     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in
this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this
report; 

(4) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officers and I are responsible for establishing and
maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and
15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules
13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 

(a) 
       
     designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls
and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information
relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by
others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being
prepared; 

(b) 
       
     designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal
control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles; 

(c) 
       
     evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and
presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls
and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such
evaluation; and 

(d) 
       
     disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial
reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the
registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially
affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control
over financial reporting; and 

(5) 
       
     The registrant s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based on our most recent
evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the
audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent
functions): 

(a) 
       
     all significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of
internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect
the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information;
and 

(b) 
       
     any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who
have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/   Andrew Cecere 

Andrew Cecere  

Dated: February 28, 2011  
      Chief Financial Officer   

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 11
 x59846exv32.htm
 EX-32

exv32 

EXHIBIT 32 

CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of
2002, the undersigned, Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer of U.S. Bancorp, a
Delaware corporation (the  Company ), do hereby certify that:

(1) 
       
     The Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010 (the  Form 10-K )
of the Company fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

(2) 
       
     The information contained in the Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

/s/  Richard K. Davis 

Richard K. Davis

/s/  Andrew Cecere 
  
 Andrew
Cecere 

Chief Executive Officer 

Chief Financial Officer  

Dated:
February 28, 2011

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 usb-20101231.xml
 EX-101 INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 usb-20101231.xsd
 EX-101 SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 usb-20101231_cal.xml
 EX-101 CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 usb-20101231_lab.xml
 EX-101 LABELS LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 usb-20101231_pre.xml
 EX-101 PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

<EX-101.DEF>
 17
 usb-20101231_def.xml
 EX-101 DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

